[{"date": "2008-01-02T11:55:10Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The director of the government's emergency bureau, Carmen Fernandez, today said that a state of alert remained in the area of the Llaima volcano 650km (400 miles) south of Santiago, but that no mass evacuation was yet necessary.Yesterday, authorities evacuated 150 tourists and employees of the National Forest Service from Conguillio National Park, where the volcano is situated.Fernandez said 53 people remained stranded in the park and authorities were preparing to evacuate them by helicopter.Hundreds of people in the town of Melipeuco, the closest to the volcano, left their homes and spent the night in the open or at two shelters opened by authorities as a series of strong explosions from the volcano rocked the area during the night.But Fernandez insisted that a massive evacuation was not planned as it did not yet appear necessary.\"There are no signs yet of an increased risk,\" Fernandez said. \"There is some flow of lava, but not in a continued manner yet.\"\"A number of buses and army trucks have already been sent and are ready in case a decision is made to order a massive evacuation in Melipeuco,\" where some 5,000 people live, she said.Melipeuco is 12km from the 3,120m (9,300ft) volcano. Llaima, one of the most active among Chile's dozens of volcanoes, last erupted in May, but has not had a major blast since 1999.", "tags": ["World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Chile", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Chile volcano"},{"date": "2008-01-02T11:55:10Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The director of the government's emergency bureau, Carmen Fernandez, today said that a state of alert remained in the area of the Llaima volcano 650km (400 miles) south of Santiago, but that no mass evacuation was yet necessary.Yesterday, authorities evacuated 150 tourists and employees of the National Forest Service from Conguillio National Park, where the volcano is situated.Fernandez said 53 people remained stranded in the park and authorities were preparing to evacuate them by helicopter.Hundreds of people in the town of Melipeuco, the closest to the volcano, left their homes and spent the night in the open or at two shelters opened by authorities as a series of strong explosions from the volcano rocked the area during the night.But Fernandez insisted that a massive evacuation was not planned as it did not yet appear necessary.\"There are no signs yet of an increased risk,\" Fernandez said. \"There is some flow of lava, but not in a continued manner yet.\"\"A number of buses and army trucks have already been sent and are ready in case a decision is made to order a massive evacuation in Melipeuco,\" where some 5,000 people live, she said.Melipeuco is 12km from the 3,120m (9,300ft) volcano. Llaima, one of the most active among Chile's dozens of volcanoes, last erupted in May, but has not had a major blast since 1999.", "tags": ["World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Chile", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Chile volcano"},{"date": "2008-03-23T00:34:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "It was possibly the most exciting thing ever to have happened in a desolate corner of northern Chile. Life in Antofagasta looked set to change forever when the producers of the James Bond films came to town, followed by 007 himself, Daniel Craig.Mindful of Bond's association with glamorous locations, Chilean officials welcomed the invading army and scented a once-in-a-lifetime chance to put the port on the tourism map. So they were crestfallen to discover that producers of the forthcoming 007 blockbuster Quantum of Solace had a different vision. It involved recruiting extras and dressing them up - as Bolivians. Tourism officials and politicians now fear Antofagasta will lose its claim to fame and, worse still, be presented as belonging to poverty-stricken Bolivia, which for years has been Chile's bitter rivals across the Andes.Roddiam Aguirre, of Chilean tourist board Sernatur, said: 'When we agreed to the film being shot in Chile, we did it because we thought it would bring us many benefits. We had hopes of showing the world our image through a production this size. If the film is going to take place in locations that simulate an Andean or fictitious country, we're not going to benefit at all.'The two South American nations, which have a history of bad blood, severed full diplomatic relations 30 years ago. Chile, an invaluable ally of Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict, is one of the continent's richest countries. Bolivia, which is still smarting over the loss of its Pacific coast to Chile after a five-year war nearly 125 years ago, is one of its poorest.Marc Forster, director of Quantum of Solace, is thought to have picked Antofagasta and the nearby Atacama desert as locations after visiting the region two years ago. Craig flies in to start filming tomorrow.Hundreds of locals auditioned as extras after producers offered the chance to take part in the film, which follows the worldwide success of Craig's debut in Casino RoyaleBut the casting directors singled out dark-skinned individuals and seemingly dressed them to look like the indigenous people of Bolivia, who traditionally favour native languages over Spanish and helped to elect Evo Morales as the country's first indigenous Indian president two years ago.Maria Ayara Encina, whose two children, Solange and Elias, took part in the final casting session, said: 'My little ones are dark-skinned and that's why they got as far as they did. They dressed my daughter up in a long black skirt, white blouse and black shawl and put a hat on her before making her act out a scene as a Bolivian girl drawing water from a well.'The move has been criticised by leading Chileans. Novelist Hern\u00e1n Rivera Letelier, who grew up in Antofagasta and whose award-winning books are printed in several languages, told La Cuarta newspaper: 'I don't think it's bad that they have come to make this film in Chile. But if they want to dress us up as Bolivians, they're better off going to Bolivia itself. The locations they've chosen are beautiful, but all that's lacking on the extras seems to be a feather and a loincloth.'London-based Eon Productions is thought to be planning to film a plane crash in the Atacama desert as one of the action sequences in the movie, which is due to have its premiere in London in October.There has already been trouble at the film's previous location, Panama, where the set was affected by rioting construction workers after police shot dead a union leader.", "tags": ["Chile", "Bolivia", "Film", "World news", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "The name's Chile ... but to 007 and his film crew it's Bolivia"},{"date": "2008-01-02T11:55:10Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The director of the government's emergency bureau, Carmen Fernandez, today said that a state of alert remained in the area of the Llaima volcano 650km (400 miles) south of Santiago, but that no mass evacuation was yet necessary.Yesterday, authorities evacuated 150 tourists and employees of the National Forest Service from Conguillio National Park, where the volcano is situated.Fernandez said 53 people remained stranded in the park and authorities were preparing to evacuate them by helicopter.Hundreds of people in the town of Melipeuco, the closest to the volcano, left their homes and spent the night in the open or at two shelters opened by authorities as a series of strong explosions from the volcano rocked the area during the night.But Fernandez insisted that a massive evacuation was not planned as it did not yet appear necessary.\"There are no signs yet of an increased risk,\" Fernandez said. \"There is some flow of lava, but not in a continued manner yet.\"\"A number of buses and army trucks have already been sent and are ready in case a decision is made to order a massive evacuation in Melipeuco,\" where some 5,000 people live, she said.Melipeuco is 12km from the 3,120m (9,300ft) volcano. Llaima, one of the most active among Chile's dozens of volcanoes, last erupted in May, but has not had a major blast since 1999.", "tags": ["World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Chile", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Chile volcano"},{"date": "2008-03-23T00:34:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "It was possibly the most exciting thing ever to have happened in a desolate corner of northern Chile. Life in Antofagasta looked set to change forever when the producers of the James Bond films came to town, followed by 007 himself, Daniel Craig.Mindful of Bond's association with glamorous locations, Chilean officials welcomed the invading army and scented a once-in-a-lifetime chance to put the port on the tourism map. So they were crestfallen to discover that producers of the forthcoming 007 blockbuster Quantum of Solace had a different vision. It involved recruiting extras and dressing them up - as Bolivians. Tourism officials and politicians now fear Antofagasta will lose its claim to fame and, worse still, be presented as belonging to poverty-stricken Bolivia, which for years has been Chile's bitter rivals across the Andes.Roddiam Aguirre, of Chilean tourist board Sernatur, said: 'When we agreed to the film being shot in Chile, we did it because we thought it would bring us many benefits. We had hopes of showing the world our image through a production this size. If the film is going to take place in locations that simulate an Andean or fictitious country, we're not going to benefit at all.'The two South American nations, which have a history of bad blood, severed full diplomatic relations 30 years ago. Chile, an invaluable ally of Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict, is one of the continent's richest countries. Bolivia, which is still smarting over the loss of its Pacific coast to Chile after a five-year war nearly 125 years ago, is one of its poorest.Marc Forster, director of Quantum of Solace, is thought to have picked Antofagasta and the nearby Atacama desert as locations after visiting the region two years ago. Craig flies in to start filming tomorrow.Hundreds of locals auditioned as extras after producers offered the chance to take part in the film, which follows the worldwide success of Craig's debut in Casino RoyaleBut the casting directors singled out dark-skinned individuals and seemingly dressed them to look like the indigenous people of Bolivia, who traditionally favour native languages over Spanish and helped to elect Evo Morales as the country's first indigenous Indian president two years ago.Maria Ayara Encina, whose two children, Solange and Elias, took part in the final casting session, said: 'My little ones are dark-skinned and that's why they got as far as they did. They dressed my daughter up in a long black skirt, white blouse and black shawl and put a hat on her before making her act out a scene as a Bolivian girl drawing water from a well.'The move has been criticised by leading Chileans. Novelist Hern\u00e1n Rivera Letelier, who grew up in Antofagasta and whose award-winning books are printed in several languages, told La Cuarta newspaper: 'I don't think it's bad that they have come to make this film in Chile. But if they want to dress us up as Bolivians, they're better off going to Bolivia itself. The locations they've chosen are beautiful, but all that's lacking on the extras seems to be a feather and a loincloth.'London-based Eon Productions is thought to be planning to film a plane crash in the Atacama desert as one of the action sequences in the movie, which is due to have its premiere in London in October.There has already been trouble at the film's previous location, Panama, where the set was affected by rioting construction workers after police shot dead a union leader.", "tags": ["Chile", "Bolivia", "Film", "World news", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "The name's Chile ... but to 007 and his film crew it's Bolivia"},{"date": "2008-01-17T09:38:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I couldn't stand that silence, and the result was my play, Death and the Maiden. I wanted to look at the question of how we coexist in the same country, even in the same room, with someone who has caused us grievous, perhaps irreparable harm. Would we be able to resist taking revenge, if that revenge were made possible? My protagonist, Paulina Salas, captures the doctor she believes raped and tortured her many years ago, and puts him on trial in her beach-house. During one long day and night, she must try to extract a confession from that man. More crucially, she has to decide what, if any, violence she might inflict on him, whether to kill or spare him.The play opened at the small theatre upstairs at London's Royal Court in 1991, and won the Olivier award for best play, along with a best actress award for Juliet Stevenson. It was followed by a Broadway run with Glenn Close, Gene Hackman and Richard Dreyfuss, and then turned into a film by Roman Polanski. I was astonished by the play's success, mainly because it ended so ambiguously on so many levels. I did not let the audience know for certain if the doctor was really guilty, or what Paulina did with her prisoner. Nor did I resolve that central dilemma: how to seek justice and yet not lapse into violence, how to break the cycle of recrimination and retaliation?These questions have stayed with me, and are now the subject of a new play, Purgatorio, which can be read as an intellectual and emotional sequel to Death and the Maiden. In Purgatorio, I lock a man and a woman in a stark, bare room. She seems desperate to escape from what could be a hospital, or an insane asylum. The man, apparently her therapist, appears just as desperate to help her. But both have hidden agendas. Slowly, it will be revealed that they are both in the afterlife, kept there until they have atoned for crimes they have committed. Both are victims and both are perpetrators; both are patients and simultaneously healers.Why return to the questions at the heart of Death and the Maiden? Because in that play - as in other plays of mine, such as Widows and Reader - I was in a way letting the audience off the hook. It was an agent of the state who was torturing, or \"disappearing\" bodies, or censoring. This permits spectators the luxury of distance - the thought that it's just a matter of ridding the world of such repressive figures and everything will be all right. But there is no such comfort in Purgatorio, where both my characters are implicated in something dreadful. What is the worst thing a man can do to a woman? What is the worst thing a woman can do to a man? These two have done it to each other, in spades. I wanted to make sure that, in the supremely private and claustrophobic relationship I had wrought for them, they could not blame the government, or history. I wanted them to dwell in the murky moral landscape where most couples live and love and fight.We inhabit a time of fear and mistrust: nothing could be more urgent than asking ourselves how we should react when we have been overwhelmed by a monstrous offence; nothing could be more imperative than the need to understand how easy it is to go from victim to accuser, from accuser to invader, from violator to victim.In the austerity of that room, the man and woman I dreamt up embark on the quest for guidance and deliverance that Paulina Salas originally formulated in Death and the Maiden. Stripped of all defences and masks, they go at each other with all the hope they can muster. They wonder, as I do, if we will be able to find a way out of the endless cycle of hatred and retribution in which our species seems to be trapped.\u00b7 Purgatorio is at the Arcola Theatre, London, until February 9. Box office: 020-7503 1646.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Theatre", "Culture", "Stage"], "title": "Ariel Dorfman on revisiting his play Death and the Maiden"},{"date": "2008-01-02T11:55:10Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The director of the government's emergency bureau, Carmen Fernandez, today said that a state of alert remained in the area of the Llaima volcano 650km (400 miles) south of Santiago, but that no mass evacuation was yet necessary.Yesterday, authorities evacuated 150 tourists and employees of the National Forest Service from Conguillio National Park, where the volcano is situated.Fernandez said 53 people remained stranded in the park and authorities were preparing to evacuate them by helicopter.Hundreds of people in the town of Melipeuco, the closest to the volcano, left their homes and spent the night in the open or at two shelters opened by authorities as a series of strong explosions from the volcano rocked the area during the night.But Fernandez insisted that a massive evacuation was not planned as it did not yet appear necessary.\"There are no signs yet of an increased risk,\" Fernandez said. \"There is some flow of lava, but not in a continued manner yet.\"\"A number of buses and army trucks have already been sent and are ready in case a decision is made to order a massive evacuation in Melipeuco,\" where some 5,000 people live, she said.Melipeuco is 12km from the 3,120m (9,300ft) volcano. Llaima, one of the most active among Chile's dozens of volcanoes, last erupted in May, but has not had a major blast since 1999.", "tags": ["World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Chile", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Chile volcano"},{"date": "2008-03-23T00:34:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "It was possibly the most exciting thing ever to have happened in a desolate corner of northern Chile. Life in Antofagasta looked set to change forever when the producers of the James Bond films came to town, followed by 007 himself, Daniel Craig.Mindful of Bond's association with glamorous locations, Chilean officials welcomed the invading army and scented a once-in-a-lifetime chance to put the port on the tourism map. So they were crestfallen to discover that producers of the forthcoming 007 blockbuster Quantum of Solace had a different vision. It involved recruiting extras and dressing them up - as Bolivians. Tourism officials and politicians now fear Antofagasta will lose its claim to fame and, worse still, be presented as belonging to poverty-stricken Bolivia, which for years has been Chile's bitter rivals across the Andes.Roddiam Aguirre, of Chilean tourist board Sernatur, said: 'When we agreed to the film being shot in Chile, we did it because we thought it would bring us many benefits. We had hopes of showing the world our image through a production this size. If the film is going to take place in locations that simulate an Andean or fictitious country, we're not going to benefit at all.'The two South American nations, which have a history of bad blood, severed full diplomatic relations 30 years ago. Chile, an invaluable ally of Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict, is one of the continent's richest countries. Bolivia, which is still smarting over the loss of its Pacific coast to Chile after a five-year war nearly 125 years ago, is one of its poorest.Marc Forster, director of Quantum of Solace, is thought to have picked Antofagasta and the nearby Atacama desert as locations after visiting the region two years ago. Craig flies in to start filming tomorrow.Hundreds of locals auditioned as extras after producers offered the chance to take part in the film, which follows the worldwide success of Craig's debut in Casino RoyaleBut the casting directors singled out dark-skinned individuals and seemingly dressed them to look like the indigenous people of Bolivia, who traditionally favour native languages over Spanish and helped to elect Evo Morales as the country's first indigenous Indian president two years ago.Maria Ayara Encina, whose two children, Solange and Elias, took part in the final casting session, said: 'My little ones are dark-skinned and that's why they got as far as they did. They dressed my daughter up in a long black skirt, white blouse and black shawl and put a hat on her before making her act out a scene as a Bolivian girl drawing water from a well.'The move has been criticised by leading Chileans. Novelist Hern\u00e1n Rivera Letelier, who grew up in Antofagasta and whose award-winning books are printed in several languages, told La Cuarta newspaper: 'I don't think it's bad that they have come to make this film in Chile. But if they want to dress us up as Bolivians, they're better off going to Bolivia itself. The locations they've chosen are beautiful, but all that's lacking on the extras seems to be a feather and a loincloth.'London-based Eon Productions is thought to be planning to film a plane crash in the Atacama desert as one of the action sequences in the movie, which is due to have its premiere in London in October.There has already been trouble at the film's previous location, Panama, where the set was affected by rioting construction workers after police shot dead a union leader.", "tags": ["Chile", "Bolivia", "Film", "World news", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "The name's Chile ... but to 007 and his film crew it's Bolivia"},{"date": "2008-01-17T09:38:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I couldn't stand that silence, and the result was my play, Death and the Maiden. I wanted to look at the question of how we coexist in the same country, even in the same room, with someone who has caused us grievous, perhaps irreparable harm. Would we be able to resist taking revenge, if that revenge were made possible? My protagonist, Paulina Salas, captures the doctor she believes raped and tortured her many years ago, and puts him on trial in her beach-house. During one long day and night, she must try to extract a confession from that man. More crucially, she has to decide what, if any, violence she might inflict on him, whether to kill or spare him.The play opened at the small theatre upstairs at London's Royal Court in 1991, and won the Olivier award for best play, along with a best actress award for Juliet Stevenson. It was followed by a Broadway run with Glenn Close, Gene Hackman and Richard Dreyfuss, and then turned into a film by Roman Polanski. I was astonished by the play's success, mainly because it ended so ambiguously on so many levels. I did not let the audience know for certain if the doctor was really guilty, or what Paulina did with her prisoner. Nor did I resolve that central dilemma: how to seek justice and yet not lapse into violence, how to break the cycle of recrimination and retaliation?These questions have stayed with me, and are now the subject of a new play, Purgatorio, which can be read as an intellectual and emotional sequel to Death and the Maiden. In Purgatorio, I lock a man and a woman in a stark, bare room. She seems desperate to escape from what could be a hospital, or an insane asylum. The man, apparently her therapist, appears just as desperate to help her. But both have hidden agendas. Slowly, it will be revealed that they are both in the afterlife, kept there until they have atoned for crimes they have committed. Both are victims and both are perpetrators; both are patients and simultaneously healers.Why return to the questions at the heart of Death and the Maiden? Because in that play - as in other plays of mine, such as Widows and Reader - I was in a way letting the audience off the hook. It was an agent of the state who was torturing, or \"disappearing\" bodies, or censoring. This permits spectators the luxury of distance - the thought that it's just a matter of ridding the world of such repressive figures and everything will be all right. But there is no such comfort in Purgatorio, where both my characters are implicated in something dreadful. What is the worst thing a man can do to a woman? What is the worst thing a woman can do to a man? These two have done it to each other, in spades. I wanted to make sure that, in the supremely private and claustrophobic relationship I had wrought for them, they could not blame the government, or history. I wanted them to dwell in the murky moral landscape where most couples live and love and fight.We inhabit a time of fear and mistrust: nothing could be more urgent than asking ourselves how we should react when we have been overwhelmed by a monstrous offence; nothing could be more imperative than the need to understand how easy it is to go from victim to accuser, from accuser to invader, from violator to victim.In the austerity of that room, the man and woman I dreamt up embark on the quest for guidance and deliverance that Paulina Salas originally formulated in Death and the Maiden. Stripped of all defences and masks, they go at each other with all the hope they can muster. They wonder, as I do, if we will be able to find a way out of the endless cycle of hatred and retribution in which our species seems to be trapped.\u00b7 Purgatorio is at the Arcola Theatre, London, until February 9. Box office: 020-7503 1646.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Theatre", "Culture", "Stage"], "title": "Ariel Dorfman on revisiting his play Death and the Maiden"},{"date": "2008-01-14T15:59:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is the latest country to get its own version of the award-wining British TV comedy The Office after the BBC signed a licensing deal with local producers in the south American country.BBC Worldwide Americas has licensed the format to production company Chilecorto and Canal 13-Chile, part of Chilean network UCTV, with the show due to begin production early this year.The Office is now shown in 90 countries, with remakes in the US, France and Germany, but this is the first Spanish-language version and the first format deal for the show in Latin America.Gervais said: \"We stopped making The Office in 2003 but the rest of the world didn't. I won't be happy until I see an Inuit doing the dance.\"The deal covers series one and two plus the Christmas specials, with the premiere set for May this year.BBC Worldwide will advise on the production and Duncan Cooper, the BBC Worldwide executive producer of formats and local production, will assist the producers in the show's development.  Well-known Chilean actor Luis Gnecco has signed to play the role of David Brent and Chilecorto is currently casting for the remaining characters. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["BBC", "Television industry", "Media", "World news", "Chile"], "title": "BBC sells The Office to Chilean television"},{"date": "2008-01-02T11:55:10Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The director of the government's emergency bureau, Carmen Fernandez, today said that a state of alert remained in the area of the Llaima volcano 650km (400 miles) south of Santiago, but that no mass evacuation was yet necessary.Yesterday, authorities evacuated 150 tourists and employees of the National Forest Service from Conguillio National Park, where the volcano is situated.Fernandez said 53 people remained stranded in the park and authorities were preparing to evacuate them by helicopter.Hundreds of people in the town of Melipeuco, the closest to the volcano, left their homes and spent the night in the open or at two shelters opened by authorities as a series of strong explosions from the volcano rocked the area during the night.But Fernandez insisted that a massive evacuation was not planned as it did not yet appear necessary.\"There are no signs yet of an increased risk,\" Fernandez said. \"There is some flow of lava, but not in a continued manner yet.\"\"A number of buses and army trucks have already been sent and are ready in case a decision is made to order a massive evacuation in Melipeuco,\" where some 5,000 people live, she said.Melipeuco is 12km from the 3,120m (9,300ft) volcano. Llaima, one of the most active among Chile's dozens of volcanoes, last erupted in May, but has not had a major blast since 1999.", "tags": ["World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Chile", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Chile volcano"},{"date": "2008-03-23T00:34:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "It was possibly the most exciting thing ever to have happened in a desolate corner of northern Chile. Life in Antofagasta looked set to change forever when the producers of the James Bond films came to town, followed by 007 himself, Daniel Craig.Mindful of Bond's association with glamorous locations, Chilean officials welcomed the invading army and scented a once-in-a-lifetime chance to put the port on the tourism map. So they were crestfallen to discover that producers of the forthcoming 007 blockbuster Quantum of Solace had a different vision. It involved recruiting extras and dressing them up - as Bolivians. Tourism officials and politicians now fear Antofagasta will lose its claim to fame and, worse still, be presented as belonging to poverty-stricken Bolivia, which for years has been Chile's bitter rivals across the Andes.Roddiam Aguirre, of Chilean tourist board Sernatur, said: 'When we agreed to the film being shot in Chile, we did it because we thought it would bring us many benefits. We had hopes of showing the world our image through a production this size. If the film is going to take place in locations that simulate an Andean or fictitious country, we're not going to benefit at all.'The two South American nations, which have a history of bad blood, severed full diplomatic relations 30 years ago. Chile, an invaluable ally of Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict, is one of the continent's richest countries. Bolivia, which is still smarting over the loss of its Pacific coast to Chile after a five-year war nearly 125 years ago, is one of its poorest.Marc Forster, director of Quantum of Solace, is thought to have picked Antofagasta and the nearby Atacama desert as locations after visiting the region two years ago. Craig flies in to start filming tomorrow.Hundreds of locals auditioned as extras after producers offered the chance to take part in the film, which follows the worldwide success of Craig's debut in Casino RoyaleBut the casting directors singled out dark-skinned individuals and seemingly dressed them to look like the indigenous people of Bolivia, who traditionally favour native languages over Spanish and helped to elect Evo Morales as the country's first indigenous Indian president two years ago.Maria Ayara Encina, whose two children, Solange and Elias, took part in the final casting session, said: 'My little ones are dark-skinned and that's why they got as far as they did. They dressed my daughter up in a long black skirt, white blouse and black shawl and put a hat on her before making her act out a scene as a Bolivian girl drawing water from a well.'The move has been criticised by leading Chileans. Novelist Hern\u00e1n Rivera Letelier, who grew up in Antofagasta and whose award-winning books are printed in several languages, told La Cuarta newspaper: 'I don't think it's bad that they have come to make this film in Chile. But if they want to dress us up as Bolivians, they're better off going to Bolivia itself. The locations they've chosen are beautiful, but all that's lacking on the extras seems to be a feather and a loincloth.'London-based Eon Productions is thought to be planning to film a plane crash in the Atacama desert as one of the action sequences in the movie, which is due to have its premiere in London in October.There has already been trouble at the film's previous location, Panama, where the set was affected by rioting construction workers after police shot dead a union leader.", "tags": ["Chile", "Bolivia", "Film", "World news", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "The name's Chile ... but to 007 and his film crew it's Bolivia"},{"date": "2008-01-17T09:38:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I couldn't stand that silence, and the result was my play, Death and the Maiden. I wanted to look at the question of how we coexist in the same country, even in the same room, with someone who has caused us grievous, perhaps irreparable harm. Would we be able to resist taking revenge, if that revenge were made possible? My protagonist, Paulina Salas, captures the doctor she believes raped and tortured her many years ago, and puts him on trial in her beach-house. During one long day and night, she must try to extract a confession from that man. More crucially, she has to decide what, if any, violence she might inflict on him, whether to kill or spare him.The play opened at the small theatre upstairs at London's Royal Court in 1991, and won the Olivier award for best play, along with a best actress award for Juliet Stevenson. It was followed by a Broadway run with Glenn Close, Gene Hackman and Richard Dreyfuss, and then turned into a film by Roman Polanski. I was astonished by the play's success, mainly because it ended so ambiguously on so many levels. I did not let the audience know for certain if the doctor was really guilty, or what Paulina did with her prisoner. Nor did I resolve that central dilemma: how to seek justice and yet not lapse into violence, how to break the cycle of recrimination and retaliation?These questions have stayed with me, and are now the subject of a new play, Purgatorio, which can be read as an intellectual and emotional sequel to Death and the Maiden. In Purgatorio, I lock a man and a woman in a stark, bare room. She seems desperate to escape from what could be a hospital, or an insane asylum. The man, apparently her therapist, appears just as desperate to help her. But both have hidden agendas. Slowly, it will be revealed that they are both in the afterlife, kept there until they have atoned for crimes they have committed. Both are victims and both are perpetrators; both are patients and simultaneously healers.Why return to the questions at the heart of Death and the Maiden? Because in that play - as in other plays of mine, such as Widows and Reader - I was in a way letting the audience off the hook. It was an agent of the state who was torturing, or \"disappearing\" bodies, or censoring. This permits spectators the luxury of distance - the thought that it's just a matter of ridding the world of such repressive figures and everything will be all right. But there is no such comfort in Purgatorio, where both my characters are implicated in something dreadful. What is the worst thing a man can do to a woman? What is the worst thing a woman can do to a man? These two have done it to each other, in spades. I wanted to make sure that, in the supremely private and claustrophobic relationship I had wrought for them, they could not blame the government, or history. I wanted them to dwell in the murky moral landscape where most couples live and love and fight.We inhabit a time of fear and mistrust: nothing could be more urgent than asking ourselves how we should react when we have been overwhelmed by a monstrous offence; nothing could be more imperative than the need to understand how easy it is to go from victim to accuser, from accuser to invader, from violator to victim.In the austerity of that room, the man and woman I dreamt up embark on the quest for guidance and deliverance that Paulina Salas originally formulated in Death and the Maiden. Stripped of all defences and masks, they go at each other with all the hope they can muster. They wonder, as I do, if we will be able to find a way out of the endless cycle of hatred and retribution in which our species seems to be trapped.\u00b7 Purgatorio is at the Arcola Theatre, London, until February 9. Box office: 020-7503 1646.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Theatre", "Culture", "Stage"], "title": "Ariel Dorfman on revisiting his play Death and the Maiden"},{"date": "2008-01-14T15:59:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is the latest country to get its own version of the award-wining British TV comedy The Office after the BBC signed a licensing deal with local producers in the south American country.BBC Worldwide Americas has licensed the format to production company Chilecorto and Canal 13-Chile, part of Chilean network UCTV, with the show due to begin production early this year.The Office is now shown in 90 countries, with remakes in the US, France and Germany, but this is the first Spanish-language version and the first format deal for the show in Latin America.Gervais said: \"We stopped making The Office in 2003 but the rest of the world didn't. I won't be happy until I see an Inuit doing the dance.\"The deal covers series one and two plus the Christmas specials, with the premiere set for May this year.BBC Worldwide will advise on the production and Duncan Cooper, the BBC Worldwide executive producer of formats and local production, will assist the producers in the show's development.  Well-known Chilean actor Luis Gnecco has signed to play the role of David Brent and Chilecorto is currently casting for the remaining characters. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["BBC", "Television industry", "Media", "World news", "Chile"], "title": "BBC sells The Office to Chilean television"},{"date": "2008-03-14T18:21:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Patagonia is the southernmost triangle of South America, straddling Argentina and Chile, one of the last wildernesses to be conquered by modern man. Westerners have long regarded the region an empty place, a land of myths, a refuge from the world. Back in the 1970s, Bruce Chatwin wrote that it was one of the few places that would be safe in the event of a third world war. But French cultural commentator Juan Baudrillard has pointed out that the \"end of the world\" fantasy that sells Patagonia to explorers and tourists has also been used to justify wiping out local populations and modifying the environment in the name of progress.The faraway, barely populated region has long been prey to speculators. Now two of Chile's most spectacular rivers - the Baker and Pascua - are threatened by plans to build five large dams that will flood rare temperate rainforest, a habitat for several endangered species.The 2,355 megawatt, US$4 billion scheme known as the HidroAys\u00e9n Project - the Baker and Pascua are in the remote province of Ays\u00e9n - is being proposed by Spanish energy giant Endesa, Italian utility Enel and Chilean firm Colbun. The power lines needed to transport the electricity to the capital Santiago de Chile would require one of the world's longest clearcuts - much of it through untouched forests rich in species found nowhere else on the planet. Unsurprisingly, Chile's two biggest wood product and pulp companies, the Matte Group and the Angelini Group, are in support of the HidroAys\u00e9n Project.Though Chilean president Michelle Bachelet has made much of her green credentials since winning elections in January 2006, her energy minister Marcelo Tokman recently expressed support for the dam project.According to environmentalists, the proposed dams would flood rare temperate rainforests and some of Patagonia's best ranching lands. Many of the areas that would be affected are also important to the survival of the critically endangered huemul deer, of which only around 3,000 survive today.It's not the first time that the Patagonian environment has been threatened. Sheep farming continues the desertification of the already arid, fragile interior. Salmon farming in the Reloncavi sound, just south of Chile's lake region, has polluted both seawater and freshwater sources. In 2004/2005, waste from the Celco-Arauco pulp mill in Valdivia killed thousands of black-neck swans feeding in the wetlands of the nearby Carlos Anwandter Nature Sanctuary.But the current river controversy has its own lineage. In the early 1990s, environmentalists and tour operators in northern Patagonia condemned the Chilean government's decision to dam the Rio Biob\u00edo, popular as a whitewater rafting river. In 1996, the dam was completed and the Pangue Hydroelectric Plant, owned by Endesa, was opened.The Rio Baker is one of the wonders of Patagonia. More than 1,100 cubic meters or pristine, icy water come teeming through a narrow cleft in the Andes mountains. Half of this comes from South America's second largest and deepest lake - the vast, turquoise-coloured Lago General Carrera, which Chile shares with Argentina (where it is called Lago Buenos Aires). The rest of the water is icemelt from glaciers that peel away from the northern Patagonian Ice Field. Fernando Broussalis, of Patagonia AdventureTrip, an Argentinian firm that operates tours to the Rio Baker region, puts the problem down to geopolitics: \"Patagonia is one of the last wild places of the planet, full of beautiful landscapes, flora and fauna, both in Argentina and Chile. What we are seeing is a mad rush to develop due to a lack of energy resources. \"We hear about climate disasters every day and everyone seems to be thinking that the end is near. Yet when we can do something, everyone says 'Ah, what the hell, who cares about the future?' A change in culture may be the solution, if it is not too late.\" Only a very small number of European tourists visit Ays\u00e9n, as travel in the region usually involves long ferry crossings or an epic drive down Chile's remote Carretera Austral. Edward Miles, of Aylesbury-based Latin America specialist operator Last Frontiers, says, \"We would be devastated if the dams went ahead in such a stunning and pristine part of the country, one of Chile's last remaining wildernesses. \"The Baker and Pascua Rivers are truly magnificent and destroying the unique eco-systems and creating artificial lakes over traditional agricultural lands would be another Chilean tragedy in line with the damming of the Biob\u00edo.\"Eco-minded campaign groups around the world, including Greenpeace, International Rivers and CODEFF (Chile's Committee for the Defense of Flora and Fauna, an affiliate of Friends of the Earth) are joining forces today to mark the day of International Day of Action for Rivers. \"Damming pristine rivers and clearcutting forests for generation and transmission of electricity is environmentally irresponsible,\" said Aaron Sanger, Patagonia campaign coordinator at International Rivers. \"Companies involved in the proposed dams and transmission lines have put their products and image at risk in the international marketplace.\"In the US, the most recent campaign was kicked off on March 13 in Berkeley, California, when country singer Dana Lyons set off on a US tour designed to educate and inform Americans about the dams planned for Patagonia and how people can get involved.\u00b7 Chris Moss is the author of Patagonia which will be published by Signal in April \u00a312", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "Green travel", "Travel", "Environment", "Travel and transport", "Conservation", "Water", "Transport", "UK news", "Patagonia holidays"], "title": "Patagonia in peril"},{"date": "2008-01-02T11:55:10Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The director of the government's emergency bureau, Carmen Fernandez, today said that a state of alert remained in the area of the Llaima volcano 650km (400 miles) south of Santiago, but that no mass evacuation was yet necessary.Yesterday, authorities evacuated 150 tourists and employees of the National Forest Service from Conguillio National Park, where the volcano is situated.Fernandez said 53 people remained stranded in the park and authorities were preparing to evacuate them by helicopter.Hundreds of people in the town of Melipeuco, the closest to the volcano, left their homes and spent the night in the open or at two shelters opened by authorities as a series of strong explosions from the volcano rocked the area during the night.But Fernandez insisted that a massive evacuation was not planned as it did not yet appear necessary.\"There are no signs yet of an increased risk,\" Fernandez said. \"There is some flow of lava, but not in a continued manner yet.\"\"A number of buses and army trucks have already been sent and are ready in case a decision is made to order a massive evacuation in Melipeuco,\" where some 5,000 people live, she said.Melipeuco is 12km from the 3,120m (9,300ft) volcano. Llaima, one of the most active among Chile's dozens of volcanoes, last erupted in May, but has not had a major blast since 1999.", "tags": ["World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Chile", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Chile volcano"},{"date": "2008-03-23T00:34:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "It was possibly the most exciting thing ever to have happened in a desolate corner of northern Chile. Life in Antofagasta looked set to change forever when the producers of the James Bond films came to town, followed by 007 himself, Daniel Craig.Mindful of Bond's association with glamorous locations, Chilean officials welcomed the invading army and scented a once-in-a-lifetime chance to put the port on the tourism map. So they were crestfallen to discover that producers of the forthcoming 007 blockbuster Quantum of Solace had a different vision. It involved recruiting extras and dressing them up - as Bolivians. Tourism officials and politicians now fear Antofagasta will lose its claim to fame and, worse still, be presented as belonging to poverty-stricken Bolivia, which for years has been Chile's bitter rivals across the Andes.Roddiam Aguirre, of Chilean tourist board Sernatur, said: 'When we agreed to the film being shot in Chile, we did it because we thought it would bring us many benefits. We had hopes of showing the world our image through a production this size. If the film is going to take place in locations that simulate an Andean or fictitious country, we're not going to benefit at all.'The two South American nations, which have a history of bad blood, severed full diplomatic relations 30 years ago. Chile, an invaluable ally of Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict, is one of the continent's richest countries. Bolivia, which is still smarting over the loss of its Pacific coast to Chile after a five-year war nearly 125 years ago, is one of its poorest.Marc Forster, director of Quantum of Solace, is thought to have picked Antofagasta and the nearby Atacama desert as locations after visiting the region two years ago. Craig flies in to start filming tomorrow.Hundreds of locals auditioned as extras after producers offered the chance to take part in the film, which follows the worldwide success of Craig's debut in Casino RoyaleBut the casting directors singled out dark-skinned individuals and seemingly dressed them to look like the indigenous people of Bolivia, who traditionally favour native languages over Spanish and helped to elect Evo Morales as the country's first indigenous Indian president two years ago.Maria Ayara Encina, whose two children, Solange and Elias, took part in the final casting session, said: 'My little ones are dark-skinned and that's why they got as far as they did. They dressed my daughter up in a long black skirt, white blouse and black shawl and put a hat on her before making her act out a scene as a Bolivian girl drawing water from a well.'The move has been criticised by leading Chileans. Novelist Hern\u00e1n Rivera Letelier, who grew up in Antofagasta and whose award-winning books are printed in several languages, told La Cuarta newspaper: 'I don't think it's bad that they have come to make this film in Chile. But if they want to dress us up as Bolivians, they're better off going to Bolivia itself. The locations they've chosen are beautiful, but all that's lacking on the extras seems to be a feather and a loincloth.'London-based Eon Productions is thought to be planning to film a plane crash in the Atacama desert as one of the action sequences in the movie, which is due to have its premiere in London in October.There has already been trouble at the film's previous location, Panama, where the set was affected by rioting construction workers after police shot dead a union leader.", "tags": ["Chile", "Bolivia", "Film", "World news", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "The name's Chile ... but to 007 and his film crew it's Bolivia"},{"date": "2008-01-17T09:38:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I couldn't stand that silence, and the result was my play, Death and the Maiden. I wanted to look at the question of how we coexist in the same country, even in the same room, with someone who has caused us grievous, perhaps irreparable harm. Would we be able to resist taking revenge, if that revenge were made possible? My protagonist, Paulina Salas, captures the doctor she believes raped and tortured her many years ago, and puts him on trial in her beach-house. During one long day and night, she must try to extract a confession from that man. More crucially, she has to decide what, if any, violence she might inflict on him, whether to kill or spare him.The play opened at the small theatre upstairs at London's Royal Court in 1991, and won the Olivier award for best play, along with a best actress award for Juliet Stevenson. It was followed by a Broadway run with Glenn Close, Gene Hackman and Richard Dreyfuss, and then turned into a film by Roman Polanski. I was astonished by the play's success, mainly because it ended so ambiguously on so many levels. I did not let the audience know for certain if the doctor was really guilty, or what Paulina did with her prisoner. Nor did I resolve that central dilemma: how to seek justice and yet not lapse into violence, how to break the cycle of recrimination and retaliation?These questions have stayed with me, and are now the subject of a new play, Purgatorio, which can be read as an intellectual and emotional sequel to Death and the Maiden. In Purgatorio, I lock a man and a woman in a stark, bare room. She seems desperate to escape from what could be a hospital, or an insane asylum. The man, apparently her therapist, appears just as desperate to help her. But both have hidden agendas. Slowly, it will be revealed that they are both in the afterlife, kept there until they have atoned for crimes they have committed. Both are victims and both are perpetrators; both are patients and simultaneously healers.Why return to the questions at the heart of Death and the Maiden? Because in that play - as in other plays of mine, such as Widows and Reader - I was in a way letting the audience off the hook. It was an agent of the state who was torturing, or \"disappearing\" bodies, or censoring. This permits spectators the luxury of distance - the thought that it's just a matter of ridding the world of such repressive figures and everything will be all right. But there is no such comfort in Purgatorio, where both my characters are implicated in something dreadful. What is the worst thing a man can do to a woman? What is the worst thing a woman can do to a man? These two have done it to each other, in spades. I wanted to make sure that, in the supremely private and claustrophobic relationship I had wrought for them, they could not blame the government, or history. I wanted them to dwell in the murky moral landscape where most couples live and love and fight.We inhabit a time of fear and mistrust: nothing could be more urgent than asking ourselves how we should react when we have been overwhelmed by a monstrous offence; nothing could be more imperative than the need to understand how easy it is to go from victim to accuser, from accuser to invader, from violator to victim.In the austerity of that room, the man and woman I dreamt up embark on the quest for guidance and deliverance that Paulina Salas originally formulated in Death and the Maiden. Stripped of all defences and masks, they go at each other with all the hope they can muster. They wonder, as I do, if we will be able to find a way out of the endless cycle of hatred and retribution in which our species seems to be trapped.\u00b7 Purgatorio is at the Arcola Theatre, London, until February 9. Box office: 020-7503 1646.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Theatre", "Culture", "Stage"], "title": "Ariel Dorfman on revisiting his play Death and the Maiden"},{"date": "2008-01-14T15:59:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is the latest country to get its own version of the award-wining British TV comedy The Office after the BBC signed a licensing deal with local producers in the south American country.BBC Worldwide Americas has licensed the format to production company Chilecorto and Canal 13-Chile, part of Chilean network UCTV, with the show due to begin production early this year.The Office is now shown in 90 countries, with remakes in the US, France and Germany, but this is the first Spanish-language version and the first format deal for the show in Latin America.Gervais said: \"We stopped making The Office in 2003 but the rest of the world didn't. I won't be happy until I see an Inuit doing the dance.\"The deal covers series one and two plus the Christmas specials, with the premiere set for May this year.BBC Worldwide will advise on the production and Duncan Cooper, the BBC Worldwide executive producer of formats and local production, will assist the producers in the show's development.  Well-known Chilean actor Luis Gnecco has signed to play the role of David Brent and Chilecorto is currently casting for the remaining characters. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["BBC", "Television industry", "Media", "World news", "Chile"], "title": "BBC sells The Office to Chilean television"},{"date": "2008-03-14T18:21:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Patagonia is the southernmost triangle of South America, straddling Argentina and Chile, one of the last wildernesses to be conquered by modern man. Westerners have long regarded the region an empty place, a land of myths, a refuge from the world. Back in the 1970s, Bruce Chatwin wrote that it was one of the few places that would be safe in the event of a third world war. But French cultural commentator Juan Baudrillard has pointed out that the \"end of the world\" fantasy that sells Patagonia to explorers and tourists has also been used to justify wiping out local populations and modifying the environment in the name of progress.The faraway, barely populated region has long been prey to speculators. Now two of Chile's most spectacular rivers - the Baker and Pascua - are threatened by plans to build five large dams that will flood rare temperate rainforest, a habitat for several endangered species.The 2,355 megawatt, US$4 billion scheme known as the HidroAys\u00e9n Project - the Baker and Pascua are in the remote province of Ays\u00e9n - is being proposed by Spanish energy giant Endesa, Italian utility Enel and Chilean firm Colbun. The power lines needed to transport the electricity to the capital Santiago de Chile would require one of the world's longest clearcuts - much of it through untouched forests rich in species found nowhere else on the planet. Unsurprisingly, Chile's two biggest wood product and pulp companies, the Matte Group and the Angelini Group, are in support of the HidroAys\u00e9n Project.Though Chilean president Michelle Bachelet has made much of her green credentials since winning elections in January 2006, her energy minister Marcelo Tokman recently expressed support for the dam project.According to environmentalists, the proposed dams would flood rare temperate rainforests and some of Patagonia's best ranching lands. Many of the areas that would be affected are also important to the survival of the critically endangered huemul deer, of which only around 3,000 survive today.It's not the first time that the Patagonian environment has been threatened. Sheep farming continues the desertification of the already arid, fragile interior. Salmon farming in the Reloncavi sound, just south of Chile's lake region, has polluted both seawater and freshwater sources. In 2004/2005, waste from the Celco-Arauco pulp mill in Valdivia killed thousands of black-neck swans feeding in the wetlands of the nearby Carlos Anwandter Nature Sanctuary.But the current river controversy has its own lineage. In the early 1990s, environmentalists and tour operators in northern Patagonia condemned the Chilean government's decision to dam the Rio Biob\u00edo, popular as a whitewater rafting river. In 1996, the dam was completed and the Pangue Hydroelectric Plant, owned by Endesa, was opened.The Rio Baker is one of the wonders of Patagonia. More than 1,100 cubic meters or pristine, icy water come teeming through a narrow cleft in the Andes mountains. Half of this comes from South America's second largest and deepest lake - the vast, turquoise-coloured Lago General Carrera, which Chile shares with Argentina (where it is called Lago Buenos Aires). The rest of the water is icemelt from glaciers that peel away from the northern Patagonian Ice Field. Fernando Broussalis, of Patagonia AdventureTrip, an Argentinian firm that operates tours to the Rio Baker region, puts the problem down to geopolitics: \"Patagonia is one of the last wild places of the planet, full of beautiful landscapes, flora and fauna, both in Argentina and Chile. What we are seeing is a mad rush to develop due to a lack of energy resources. \"We hear about climate disasters every day and everyone seems to be thinking that the end is near. Yet when we can do something, everyone says 'Ah, what the hell, who cares about the future?' A change in culture may be the solution, if it is not too late.\" Only a very small number of European tourists visit Ays\u00e9n, as travel in the region usually involves long ferry crossings or an epic drive down Chile's remote Carretera Austral. Edward Miles, of Aylesbury-based Latin America specialist operator Last Frontiers, says, \"We would be devastated if the dams went ahead in such a stunning and pristine part of the country, one of Chile's last remaining wildernesses. \"The Baker and Pascua Rivers are truly magnificent and destroying the unique eco-systems and creating artificial lakes over traditional agricultural lands would be another Chilean tragedy in line with the damming of the Biob\u00edo.\"Eco-minded campaign groups around the world, including Greenpeace, International Rivers and CODEFF (Chile's Committee for the Defense of Flora and Fauna, an affiliate of Friends of the Earth) are joining forces today to mark the day of International Day of Action for Rivers. \"Damming pristine rivers and clearcutting forests for generation and transmission of electricity is environmentally irresponsible,\" said Aaron Sanger, Patagonia campaign coordinator at International Rivers. \"Companies involved in the proposed dams and transmission lines have put their products and image at risk in the international marketplace.\"In the US, the most recent campaign was kicked off on March 13 in Berkeley, California, when country singer Dana Lyons set off on a US tour designed to educate and inform Americans about the dams planned for Patagonia and how people can get involved.\u00b7 Chris Moss is the author of Patagonia which will be published by Signal in April \u00a312", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "Green travel", "Travel", "Environment", "Travel and transport", "Conservation", "Water", "Transport", "UK news", "Patagonia holidays"], "title": "Patagonia in peril"},{"date": "2008-03-27T00:49:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A Finnish tourist has been arrested for ripping the earlobe off one of Easter Island's ancient statues. Marko Kulju, 26, allegedly snapped off the giant lobe, which smashed into dozens of pieces. He then pocketed a chunk of the sacred Moai head in front of a horrified local woman.He now faces seven years in a Chilean jail and a \u00a310,000 fine if convicted of stealing part of the 4 metre high head.Patricia Loflund, the consul at the Finnish embassy in Chile, said: \"It was a sudden, impulsive crazy idea. He is sorry and surprised that it has caused such a stir. He really regrets his actions.\"The 400 statues were carved out of volcanic rock between 400 and 1,000 years ago to honour deceased ancestors. Some are more than 20 metres tall, but most are about 6 metres and weigh about 20 tonnes. They face the south Pacific, about 2,300 miles west of Chile. Damaging the statues is punishable under a law protecting national monuments. The authorities are inspecting the statue to see if it can be repaired. A local woman saw Kulju stealing the artefact at Anakena beach and later identified him through tattoos on his body. He used his hands to tear off the earlobe, which fell to the ground and broke into pieces measuring eight to 12 inches each, said the police chief, Cristian Gonzalez.An Easter Island government official, Liliana Castro, said: \"There are sites of great archaeological value everywhere and the park guards cannot prevent all such incidents.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Travel", "South Pacific"], "title": "Tourist held for stealing ear of ancient statue"},{"date": "2008-01-02T11:55:10Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The director of the government's emergency bureau, Carmen Fernandez, today said that a state of alert remained in the area of the Llaima volcano 650km (400 miles) south of Santiago, but that no mass evacuation was yet necessary.Yesterday, authorities evacuated 150 tourists and employees of the National Forest Service from Conguillio National Park, where the volcano is situated.Fernandez said 53 people remained stranded in the park and authorities were preparing to evacuate them by helicopter.Hundreds of people in the town of Melipeuco, the closest to the volcano, left their homes and spent the night in the open or at two shelters opened by authorities as a series of strong explosions from the volcano rocked the area during the night.But Fernandez insisted that a massive evacuation was not planned as it did not yet appear necessary.\"There are no signs yet of an increased risk,\" Fernandez said. \"There is some flow of lava, but not in a continued manner yet.\"\"A number of buses and army trucks have already been sent and are ready in case a decision is made to order a massive evacuation in Melipeuco,\" where some 5,000 people live, she said.Melipeuco is 12km from the 3,120m (9,300ft) volcano. Llaima, one of the most active among Chile's dozens of volcanoes, last erupted in May, but has not had a major blast since 1999.", "tags": ["World news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Chile", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Chile volcano"},{"date": "2008-03-23T00:34:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "It was possibly the most exciting thing ever to have happened in a desolate corner of northern Chile. Life in Antofagasta looked set to change forever when the producers of the James Bond films came to town, followed by 007 himself, Daniel Craig.Mindful of Bond's association with glamorous locations, Chilean officials welcomed the invading army and scented a once-in-a-lifetime chance to put the port on the tourism map. So they were crestfallen to discover that producers of the forthcoming 007 blockbuster Quantum of Solace had a different vision. It involved recruiting extras and dressing them up - as Bolivians. Tourism officials and politicians now fear Antofagasta will lose its claim to fame and, worse still, be presented as belonging to poverty-stricken Bolivia, which for years has been Chile's bitter rivals across the Andes.Roddiam Aguirre, of Chilean tourist board Sernatur, said: 'When we agreed to the film being shot in Chile, we did it because we thought it would bring us many benefits. We had hopes of showing the world our image through a production this size. If the film is going to take place in locations that simulate an Andean or fictitious country, we're not going to benefit at all.'The two South American nations, which have a history of bad blood, severed full diplomatic relations 30 years ago. Chile, an invaluable ally of Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict, is one of the continent's richest countries. Bolivia, which is still smarting over the loss of its Pacific coast to Chile after a five-year war nearly 125 years ago, is one of its poorest.Marc Forster, director of Quantum of Solace, is thought to have picked Antofagasta and the nearby Atacama desert as locations after visiting the region two years ago. Craig flies in to start filming tomorrow.Hundreds of locals auditioned as extras after producers offered the chance to take part in the film, which follows the worldwide success of Craig's debut in Casino RoyaleBut the casting directors singled out dark-skinned individuals and seemingly dressed them to look like the indigenous people of Bolivia, who traditionally favour native languages over Spanish and helped to elect Evo Morales as the country's first indigenous Indian president two years ago.Maria Ayara Encina, whose two children, Solange and Elias, took part in the final casting session, said: 'My little ones are dark-skinned and that's why they got as far as they did. They dressed my daughter up in a long black skirt, white blouse and black shawl and put a hat on her before making her act out a scene as a Bolivian girl drawing water from a well.'The move has been criticised by leading Chileans. Novelist Hern\u00e1n Rivera Letelier, who grew up in Antofagasta and whose award-winning books are printed in several languages, told La Cuarta newspaper: 'I don't think it's bad that they have come to make this film in Chile. But if they want to dress us up as Bolivians, they're better off going to Bolivia itself. The locations they've chosen are beautiful, but all that's lacking on the extras seems to be a feather and a loincloth.'London-based Eon Productions is thought to be planning to film a plane crash in the Atacama desert as one of the action sequences in the movie, which is due to have its premiere in London in October.There has already been trouble at the film's previous location, Panama, where the set was affected by rioting construction workers after police shot dead a union leader.", "tags": ["Chile", "Bolivia", "Film", "World news", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "The name's Chile ... but to 007 and his film crew it's Bolivia"},{"date": "2008-01-17T09:38:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I couldn't stand that silence, and the result was my play, Death and the Maiden. I wanted to look at the question of how we coexist in the same country, even in the same room, with someone who has caused us grievous, perhaps irreparable harm. Would we be able to resist taking revenge, if that revenge were made possible? My protagonist, Paulina Salas, captures the doctor she believes raped and tortured her many years ago, and puts him on trial in her beach-house. During one long day and night, she must try to extract a confession from that man. More crucially, she has to decide what, if any, violence she might inflict on him, whether to kill or spare him.The play opened at the small theatre upstairs at London's Royal Court in 1991, and won the Olivier award for best play, along with a best actress award for Juliet Stevenson. It was followed by a Broadway run with Glenn Close, Gene Hackman and Richard Dreyfuss, and then turned into a film by Roman Polanski. I was astonished by the play's success, mainly because it ended so ambiguously on so many levels. I did not let the audience know for certain if the doctor was really guilty, or what Paulina did with her prisoner. Nor did I resolve that central dilemma: how to seek justice and yet not lapse into violence, how to break the cycle of recrimination and retaliation?These questions have stayed with me, and are now the subject of a new play, Purgatorio, which can be read as an intellectual and emotional sequel to Death and the Maiden. In Purgatorio, I lock a man and a woman in a stark, bare room. She seems desperate to escape from what could be a hospital, or an insane asylum. The man, apparently her therapist, appears just as desperate to help her. But both have hidden agendas. Slowly, it will be revealed that they are both in the afterlife, kept there until they have atoned for crimes they have committed. Both are victims and both are perpetrators; both are patients and simultaneously healers.Why return to the questions at the heart of Death and the Maiden? Because in that play - as in other plays of mine, such as Widows and Reader - I was in a way letting the audience off the hook. It was an agent of the state who was torturing, or \"disappearing\" bodies, or censoring. This permits spectators the luxury of distance - the thought that it's just a matter of ridding the world of such repressive figures and everything will be all right. But there is no such comfort in Purgatorio, where both my characters are implicated in something dreadful. What is the worst thing a man can do to a woman? What is the worst thing a woman can do to a man? These two have done it to each other, in spades. I wanted to make sure that, in the supremely private and claustrophobic relationship I had wrought for them, they could not blame the government, or history. I wanted them to dwell in the murky moral landscape where most couples live and love and fight.We inhabit a time of fear and mistrust: nothing could be more urgent than asking ourselves how we should react when we have been overwhelmed by a monstrous offence; nothing could be more imperative than the need to understand how easy it is to go from victim to accuser, from accuser to invader, from violator to victim.In the austerity of that room, the man and woman I dreamt up embark on the quest for guidance and deliverance that Paulina Salas originally formulated in Death and the Maiden. Stripped of all defences and masks, they go at each other with all the hope they can muster. They wonder, as I do, if we will be able to find a way out of the endless cycle of hatred and retribution in which our species seems to be trapped.\u00b7 Purgatorio is at the Arcola Theatre, London, until February 9. Box office: 020-7503 1646.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Theatre", "Culture", "Stage"], "title": "Ariel Dorfman on revisiting his play Death and the Maiden"},{"date": "2008-01-14T15:59:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is the latest country to get its own version of the award-wining British TV comedy The Office after the BBC signed a licensing deal with local producers in the south American country.BBC Worldwide Americas has licensed the format to production company Chilecorto and Canal 13-Chile, part of Chilean network UCTV, with the show due to begin production early this year.The Office is now shown in 90 countries, with remakes in the US, France and Germany, but this is the first Spanish-language version and the first format deal for the show in Latin America.Gervais said: \"We stopped making The Office in 2003 but the rest of the world didn't. I won't be happy until I see an Inuit doing the dance.\"The deal covers series one and two plus the Christmas specials, with the premiere set for May this year.BBC Worldwide will advise on the production and Duncan Cooper, the BBC Worldwide executive producer of formats and local production, will assist the producers in the show's development.  Well-known Chilean actor Luis Gnecco has signed to play the role of David Brent and Chilecorto is currently casting for the remaining characters. \u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["BBC", "Television industry", "Media", "World news", "Chile"], "title": "BBC sells The Office to Chilean television"},{"date": "2008-03-14T18:21:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Patagonia is the southernmost triangle of South America, straddling Argentina and Chile, one of the last wildernesses to be conquered by modern man. Westerners have long regarded the region an empty place, a land of myths, a refuge from the world. Back in the 1970s, Bruce Chatwin wrote that it was one of the few places that would be safe in the event of a third world war. But French cultural commentator Juan Baudrillard has pointed out that the \"end of the world\" fantasy that sells Patagonia to explorers and tourists has also been used to justify wiping out local populations and modifying the environment in the name of progress.The faraway, barely populated region has long been prey to speculators. Now two of Chile's most spectacular rivers - the Baker and Pascua - are threatened by plans to build five large dams that will flood rare temperate rainforest, a habitat for several endangered species.The 2,355 megawatt, US$4 billion scheme known as the HidroAys\u00e9n Project - the Baker and Pascua are in the remote province of Ays\u00e9n - is being proposed by Spanish energy giant Endesa, Italian utility Enel and Chilean firm Colbun. The power lines needed to transport the electricity to the capital Santiago de Chile would require one of the world's longest clearcuts - much of it through untouched forests rich in species found nowhere else on the planet. Unsurprisingly, Chile's two biggest wood product and pulp companies, the Matte Group and the Angelini Group, are in support of the HidroAys\u00e9n Project.Though Chilean president Michelle Bachelet has made much of her green credentials since winning elections in January 2006, her energy minister Marcelo Tokman recently expressed support for the dam project.According to environmentalists, the proposed dams would flood rare temperate rainforests and some of Patagonia's best ranching lands. Many of the areas that would be affected are also important to the survival of the critically endangered huemul deer, of which only around 3,000 survive today.It's not the first time that the Patagonian environment has been threatened. Sheep farming continues the desertification of the already arid, fragile interior. Salmon farming in the Reloncavi sound, just south of Chile's lake region, has polluted both seawater and freshwater sources. In 2004/2005, waste from the Celco-Arauco pulp mill in Valdivia killed thousands of black-neck swans feeding in the wetlands of the nearby Carlos Anwandter Nature Sanctuary.But the current river controversy has its own lineage. In the early 1990s, environmentalists and tour operators in northern Patagonia condemned the Chilean government's decision to dam the Rio Biob\u00edo, popular as a whitewater rafting river. In 1996, the dam was completed and the Pangue Hydroelectric Plant, owned by Endesa, was opened.The Rio Baker is one of the wonders of Patagonia. More than 1,100 cubic meters or pristine, icy water come teeming through a narrow cleft in the Andes mountains. Half of this comes from South America's second largest and deepest lake - the vast, turquoise-coloured Lago General Carrera, which Chile shares with Argentina (where it is called Lago Buenos Aires). The rest of the water is icemelt from glaciers that peel away from the northern Patagonian Ice Field. Fernando Broussalis, of Patagonia AdventureTrip, an Argentinian firm that operates tours to the Rio Baker region, puts the problem down to geopolitics: \"Patagonia is one of the last wild places of the planet, full of beautiful landscapes, flora and fauna, both in Argentina and Chile. What we are seeing is a mad rush to develop due to a lack of energy resources. \"We hear about climate disasters every day and everyone seems to be thinking that the end is near. Yet when we can do something, everyone says 'Ah, what the hell, who cares about the future?' A change in culture may be the solution, if it is not too late.\" Only a very small number of European tourists visit Ays\u00e9n, as travel in the region usually involves long ferry crossings or an epic drive down Chile's remote Carretera Austral. Edward Miles, of Aylesbury-based Latin America specialist operator Last Frontiers, says, \"We would be devastated if the dams went ahead in such a stunning and pristine part of the country, one of Chile's last remaining wildernesses. \"The Baker and Pascua Rivers are truly magnificent and destroying the unique eco-systems and creating artificial lakes over traditional agricultural lands would be another Chilean tragedy in line with the damming of the Biob\u00edo.\"Eco-minded campaign groups around the world, including Greenpeace, International Rivers and CODEFF (Chile's Committee for the Defense of Flora and Fauna, an affiliate of Friends of the Earth) are joining forces today to mark the day of International Day of Action for Rivers. \"Damming pristine rivers and clearcutting forests for generation and transmission of electricity is environmentally irresponsible,\" said Aaron Sanger, Patagonia campaign coordinator at International Rivers. \"Companies involved in the proposed dams and transmission lines have put their products and image at risk in the international marketplace.\"In the US, the most recent campaign was kicked off on March 13 in Berkeley, California, when country singer Dana Lyons set off on a US tour designed to educate and inform Americans about the dams planned for Patagonia and how people can get involved.\u00b7 Chris Moss is the author of Patagonia which will be published by Signal in April \u00a312", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "Green travel", "Travel", "Environment", "Travel and transport", "Conservation", "Water", "Transport", "UK news", "Patagonia holidays"], "title": "Patagonia in peril"},{"date": "2008-03-27T00:49:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A Finnish tourist has been arrested for ripping the earlobe off one of Easter Island's ancient statues. Marko Kulju, 26, allegedly snapped off the giant lobe, which smashed into dozens of pieces. He then pocketed a chunk of the sacred Moai head in front of a horrified local woman.He now faces seven years in a Chilean jail and a \u00a310,000 fine if convicted of stealing part of the 4 metre high head.Patricia Loflund, the consul at the Finnish embassy in Chile, said: \"It was a sudden, impulsive crazy idea. He is sorry and surprised that it has caused such a stir. He really regrets his actions.\"The 400 statues were carved out of volcanic rock between 400 and 1,000 years ago to honour deceased ancestors. Some are more than 20 metres tall, but most are about 6 metres and weigh about 20 tonnes. They face the south Pacific, about 2,300 miles west of Chile. Damaging the statues is punishable under a law protecting national monuments. The authorities are inspecting the statue to see if it can be repaired. A local woman saw Kulju stealing the artefact at Anakena beach and later identified him through tattoos on his body. He used his hands to tear off the earlobe, which fell to the ground and broke into pieces measuring eight to 12 inches each, said the police chief, Cristian Gonzalez.An Easter Island government official, Liliana Castro, said: \"There are sites of great archaeological value everywhere and the park guards cannot prevent all such incidents.\"", "tags": ["World news", "Travel", "South Pacific"], "title": "Tourist held for stealing ear of ancient statue"},{"date": "2008-02-14T00:03:15Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Volodia Teitelboim, who has died aged 91, was a leading Chilean Communist party (CCP) intellectual, a prolific writer and winner of that country's national prize for literature in 2002. A friend and rival since the 1930s of Pablo Neruda, fellow communist and 1971 Nobel prizewinner for literature, Volodia served on the CCP political committee from his 20s until his death, and was its general secretary from 1989 to 1994.Born Valent\u00edn Teitelboim Volosky, in Chill\u00e1n, 500km south of Santiago, to Ukrainian/Moldovan/Jewish parents, he decided to call himself Volodia, as Lenin was known familiarly. From an early age, he was widely respected for his erudition, courtesy and temperate language. He graduated as a lawyer from the University of Chile but, already a communist, was drawn into the campaign to elect the progressive Frente Popular (Popular Front) government, led by Pedro Aguirre Cerda from 1938 to 1941. He became a friend of Salvador Allende, with whom he spent years in parliament, first as deputy for Valpara\u00edso from 1961 to 1965, then as senator for Santiago from 1965 until the 1973 military coup.Volodia founded the CCP's daily El Siglo (the Century), the literary journal Aurora, and later, when in exile from General Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship, Araucaria, a voice for Chilean intellectuals abroad. He lamented not having more time to dedicate to his writing, but as he told me in 2006 in our last conversation, he had \"no regrets for having dedicated his life to the cause\".Despite his activism, he produced some 24 books - political novels, essays, anthologies, biographies and latterly, his four-volume autobiography, Antes del Olvido (Before I Forget), published between 1997 and 2004. He was rightly criticised for omitting Chile's first Nobel poet, Gabriela Mistral, from his Antolog\u00eda de Poes\u00eda Chilena (1935), a fault he remedied with his 1991 biography of her. He wrote several biographies, including one of Jorge Lu\u00eds Borges (1996), whom he admired while not sharing the Argentine writer's politics. His most acclaimed biography was that of Neruda (1984).In the face of fierce opposition by the right, he lobbied with Neruda in his efforts to persuade Cerda, the then Chilean president, to accept escaping refugees after Franco's victory in the Spanish civil war. In August 1939 the Winnipeg docked at Valparaiso with 2,400 Spaniards aboard, fleeing persecution.In the 1940s and 50s Volodia was arrested several times during the governments of Carlos Iba\u00f1ez and Gabriel Gonz\u00e1lez Videla and was detained in the infamous Pisagua camp. In his autobiography, he relates how one night his then lawyer wife, Raquel Weitzmann, held the police at bay while he escaped through a hole in the fence into their neighbours' house - the husband being a radical party parliamentarian. In pitch darkness, he crept into their bedroom, only to find the wife asleep in bed alone. He woke her, she phoned her husband and the next thing Volodia knew, he was whisked away in a vehicle under the noses of the police. When the getaway car driver told him it was safe to get up off the floor, he recognised him as Allende, fellow senator and doctor.Volodia played a crucial role as the CCP representative in the formation of the Popular Unity bloc. Its programme and Allende's government ran for three years until it was brutally terminated in September 1973 by the CIA-backed Pinochet coup.Volodia was abroad at the time, and he was to spend the next 15 years in Moscow, in charge of the influential radio programme Escucha Chile (Listen Chile), a key source of news for millions of Chileans living under the dictatorship. His weekly broadcasts excoriating Pinochet's rule of terror were legendary. \"He was like a flea in the ear for Pinochet,\" journalist Eduardo Labarca said.It was in Moscow that I got to know him, in interviews for the Morning Star, over dinners with friends, at official receptions and at home in his study. Exile gave him more chances to write - \"for me,\" he said, \"writing is a way of being happy\" - and the opportunity to observe Soviet society at close hand. In our discussions, he revealed himself to be undogmatic, anti-Stalinist and convinced of the need for reform. In Antes del Olvido he vehemently rejects socialist realism in the arts.In 1988 he risked his life by returning to Chile. On Pinochet's death a year ago, he said: \"Pinochet has died but Pinochetismo is still alive. It is as if he left a restaurant without paying the bill. We still have much to do to restore democracy in Chile.\"Volodia had a wry sense of humour. He joked that he had been born a political committee member, citing his poet friend, Fernando Quilodr\u00e1n, who had supposedly unearthed a quote from the local paper of Chill\u00e1n dated 1916, which read: \"Yesterday in this city, Communist party political committee member Volodia Teitelboim was born.\"At his funeral vigil Chile's president Michelle Bachelet and three of her ministers formed a guard of honour around his coffin. He is survived by his daughter Marina.\u00b7 Valentin Teitelboim Volosky, politician and writer, born March 17 1916; died January 31 2008", "tags": ["Books", "Culture", "Chile", "World news"], "title": "Obituary: Volodia Teitelboim"},{"date": "2008-05-04T23:08:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Patagonian community of Chait\u00e9n was a ghost town yesterday after a volcano spewed ash following its first eruption in thousands of years, forcing nearly 4,500 people to flee.The snow-capped volcano of Chait\u00e9n erupted on Friday, triggering tremors and sending a cloud of ash two miles into the air. There is no record of the volcano erupting in the past 2,000 years, according to the government mining and geology agency Sernageomin.The Southern Chilean town was deserted, after authorities evacuated residents by boat to Chilo\u00e9 island to the north and Puerto Montt on the mainland. Technicians were dispatched to restore telephone services and electricity to the area, 760 miles south of the capital, Santiago, while experts took water samples. Before they were ferried to safety, some people in the area wore white surgical face masks to avoid inhaling the ash that lay 15cm deep in some areas.The National Emergency Office said volcanic activity continued, with fine ash falling. Visibility remained poor and the smell of sulphur hung heavy in the air.\"The panorama here is pretty complicated,\" said the interior minister, Edmundo Perez Yoma, during a visit to the area. \"We have completed the first phase of the operation, which was the evacuation of practically all of the local population.\"We don't know if this is a situation that will last days, or weeks, or even more.\"Schools were closed on Friday, and hospitals treated people for irritated eyes and breathing difficulties.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Residents flee as Chile volcano erupts"},{"date": "2008-05-04T23:08:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Patagonian community of Chait\u00e9n was a ghost town yesterday after a volcano spewed ash following its first eruption in thousands of years, forcing nearly 4,500 people to flee.The snow-capped volcano of Chait\u00e9n erupted on Friday, triggering tremors and sending a cloud of ash two miles into the air. There is no record of the volcano erupting in the past 2,000 years, according to the government mining and geology agency Sernageomin.The Southern Chilean town was deserted, after authorities evacuated residents by boat to Chilo\u00e9 island to the north and Puerto Montt on the mainland. Technicians were dispatched to restore telephone services and electricity to the area, 760 miles south of the capital, Santiago, while experts took water samples. Before they were ferried to safety, some people in the area wore white surgical face masks to avoid inhaling the ash that lay 15cm deep in some areas.The National Emergency Office said volcanic activity continued, with fine ash falling. Visibility remained poor and the smell of sulphur hung heavy in the air.\"The panorama here is pretty complicated,\" said the interior minister, Edmundo Perez Yoma, during a visit to the area. \"We have completed the first phase of the operation, which was the evacuation of practically all of the local population.\"We don't know if this is a situation that will last days, or weeks, or even more.\"Schools were closed on Friday, and hospitals treated people for irritated eyes and breathing difficulties.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Residents flee as Chile volcano erupts"},{"date": "2008-06-18T13:21:19Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We flew across the Chilean Altiplano until, like the world had been bleached, there lay ahead of us nothing but white. We hit the salt flats, riding fast, which felt very wrong, as our senses looked at the big slab of white and told us it had to be slippery, treacherous, no place for a motorcycle. But the tyres bit and gripped as sure as on concrete, and the crust crunched under us. Flamingos looked on. We passed through the Valley of the Moon as the light faded and the sun went through its valedictions, washing the rocks vermilion then gold then ochre. In the distance, a string of cartoon volcanoes, perfect calderas, and beyond, like a chimera, the High Andes, the brilliant white bonnets fading to grey.We rolled into San Pedro de Atacama, kicking up a trail of dust. San Pedro was once a major staging post for the great cattle drives of yore, but is now a staging post on the great gringo trail. It's the Dodge City of one's imagination, a Paramount backlot come to life, albeit with internet cafes and poncho shops. Upon entering a door I was surprised to find that there was actually a restaurant beyond, and not just wooden joists holding up the walls.We ordered some food. Tamales and llama steaks and beer that came in litre bottles. I was loving South America. In the middle of the room was an open fire. Above it a large circular hole in the ceiling, through which we gazed at the stars like diamonds. I asked the waiter what happened when it rained. It doesn't, he said.I spoke to Dave, who was on the trip with his wife, Liz. Dave worked in a Lincolnshire warehouse and had been saving for five years for the trip. It had been a fantastic introduction to riding in South America, he said, what with Globebusters taking care of shipping the bikes and visas, and next time he thinks he might be confident enough to go it alone. Mike, who was retired, had taken a few trips like this and loved the camaraderie and support. Similarly Resh, formerly known as The Raggedy One, who ran a care home for the elderly. Paul, from Coventry, worked for BT. His nickname was Gargoyle, he said. I asked him why and he stuck out his chin and held the pose. He looked a bit like a gargoyle.Most on the trip are Bambis \u2013 Born Again Mid-Life Bikers \u2013 returning to two wheels in middle age when family constraints and budgets allow. Very early the next morning, we headed off to see the El Tatio geysers. They pop their boiling spumes at exactly the moment the sun rises over the mountains, as surely as someone dropping Mentos into Diet Coke bottles, the physics of which was explained by our guide, but which I didn't fully take in owing to the fact that it was minus 50 and my brain had frozen.Then we were off to Argentina. Climbing slowly at first, more llama, then some weird-looking rabbits the size of wallabies, and then some things that looked like alpaca but with a certain skittishness. As if they might jump out in front of you and get you repatriated before you could say vicu\u00f1a. Vicu\u00f1as are not a good thing, as I had learnt on day one. I gave them a wide berth.Still climbing. Then suddenly there was nothing. No scrub, no cactus, no vicu\u00f1as, blessed be to God. Just an endless plain with the High Andes cradling and looming over it, like a proscenium arch. My ears popped. The motorbike's console flashed alarmingly. Minus two. Minus four. Minus six. That's the ground temperature. At 80 mph on a motorcycle it's more like minus 30. I lifted my visor to squeeze my nose. My gloves almost fused to it. I had my heated grips on, but I could have been clutching vials of magma and still I wouldn't have felt them. Still, it could have been worse. At least the asphyxiation-by-helmet I was suffering as we went over the 4,600-metre Paso de Jama took my mind off the cold. To fight off oedemas and to keep myself from slipping into a hypothermic coma, I repeated my mantra: \"This is not a holiday it's an adventure; this is not a holiday\u2026\"The border with Argentina lay somewhere up ahead. I just hoped that they had the space blankets ready.Tomorrow: Into the Valley of the ButterfliesGlobebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from April 21 to May 25 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Road trips", "Adventure travel", "Argentina holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great journeys: from Chile to Argentina by bike, part two"},{"date": "2008-05-04T23:08:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Patagonian community of Chait\u00e9n was a ghost town yesterday after a volcano spewed ash following its first eruption in thousands of years, forcing nearly 4,500 people to flee.The snow-capped volcano of Chait\u00e9n erupted on Friday, triggering tremors and sending a cloud of ash two miles into the air. There is no record of the volcano erupting in the past 2,000 years, according to the government mining and geology agency Sernageomin.The Southern Chilean town was deserted, after authorities evacuated residents by boat to Chilo\u00e9 island to the north and Puerto Montt on the mainland. Technicians were dispatched to restore telephone services and electricity to the area, 760 miles south of the capital, Santiago, while experts took water samples. Before they were ferried to safety, some people in the area wore white surgical face masks to avoid inhaling the ash that lay 15cm deep in some areas.The National Emergency Office said volcanic activity continued, with fine ash falling. Visibility remained poor and the smell of sulphur hung heavy in the air.\"The panorama here is pretty complicated,\" said the interior minister, Edmundo Perez Yoma, during a visit to the area. \"We have completed the first phase of the operation, which was the evacuation of practically all of the local population.\"We don't know if this is a situation that will last days, or weeks, or even more.\"Schools were closed on Friday, and hospitals treated people for irritated eyes and breathing difficulties.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Residents flee as Chile volcano erupts"},{"date": "2008-06-18T13:21:19Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We flew across the Chilean Altiplano until, like the world had been bleached, there lay ahead of us nothing but white. We hit the salt flats, riding fast, which felt very wrong, as our senses looked at the big slab of white and told us it had to be slippery, treacherous, no place for a motorcycle. But the tyres bit and gripped as sure as on concrete, and the crust crunched under us. Flamingos looked on. We passed through the Valley of the Moon as the light faded and the sun went through its valedictions, washing the rocks vermilion then gold then ochre. In the distance, a string of cartoon volcanoes, perfect calderas, and beyond, like a chimera, the High Andes, the brilliant white bonnets fading to grey.We rolled into San Pedro de Atacama, kicking up a trail of dust. San Pedro was once a major staging post for the great cattle drives of yore, but is now a staging post on the great gringo trail. It's the Dodge City of one's imagination, a Paramount backlot come to life, albeit with internet cafes and poncho shops. Upon entering a door I was surprised to find that there was actually a restaurant beyond, and not just wooden joists holding up the walls.We ordered some food. Tamales and llama steaks and beer that came in litre bottles. I was loving South America. In the middle of the room was an open fire. Above it a large circular hole in the ceiling, through which we gazed at the stars like diamonds. I asked the waiter what happened when it rained. It doesn't, he said.I spoke to Dave, who was on the trip with his wife, Liz. Dave worked in a Lincolnshire warehouse and had been saving for five years for the trip. It had been a fantastic introduction to riding in South America, he said, what with Globebusters taking care of shipping the bikes and visas, and next time he thinks he might be confident enough to go it alone. Mike, who was retired, had taken a few trips like this and loved the camaraderie and support. Similarly Resh, formerly known as The Raggedy One, who ran a care home for the elderly. Paul, from Coventry, worked for BT. His nickname was Gargoyle, he said. I asked him why and he stuck out his chin and held the pose. He looked a bit like a gargoyle.Most on the trip are Bambis \u2013 Born Again Mid-Life Bikers \u2013 returning to two wheels in middle age when family constraints and budgets allow. Very early the next morning, we headed off to see the El Tatio geysers. They pop their boiling spumes at exactly the moment the sun rises over the mountains, as surely as someone dropping Mentos into Diet Coke bottles, the physics of which was explained by our guide, but which I didn't fully take in owing to the fact that it was minus 50 and my brain had frozen.Then we were off to Argentina. Climbing slowly at first, more llama, then some weird-looking rabbits the size of wallabies, and then some things that looked like alpaca but with a certain skittishness. As if they might jump out in front of you and get you repatriated before you could say vicu\u00f1a. Vicu\u00f1as are not a good thing, as I had learnt on day one. I gave them a wide berth.Still climbing. Then suddenly there was nothing. No scrub, no cactus, no vicu\u00f1as, blessed be to God. Just an endless plain with the High Andes cradling and looming over it, like a proscenium arch. My ears popped. The motorbike's console flashed alarmingly. Minus two. Minus four. Minus six. That's the ground temperature. At 80 mph on a motorcycle it's more like minus 30. I lifted my visor to squeeze my nose. My gloves almost fused to it. I had my heated grips on, but I could have been clutching vials of magma and still I wouldn't have felt them. Still, it could have been worse. At least the asphyxiation-by-helmet I was suffering as we went over the 4,600-metre Paso de Jama took my mind off the cold. To fight off oedemas and to keep myself from slipping into a hypothermic coma, I repeated my mantra: \"This is not a holiday it's an adventure; this is not a holiday\u2026\"The border with Argentina lay somewhere up ahead. I just hoped that they had the space blankets ready.Tomorrow: Into the Valley of the ButterfliesGlobebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from April 21 to May 25 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Road trips", "Adventure travel", "Argentina holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great journeys: from Chile to Argentina by bike, part two"},{"date": "2008-05-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "No deal is ever perfect. The deals that were done in Latin America - the price of returning to constitutional rule after the military dictatorships that ravaged the sub-continent in the 70s and 80s - varied in detail but had one thing in common: they sacrificed the claims of justice for the victims in favour of a sometimes queasy political normalisation.But if the politics made sense, the detail did not: tens of thousands of families were left to live with their trauma unresolved, with no answer to anguished questions about the fate of children, parents or friends. They were arrangements designed as political sticking plaster, under which private injuries continued to fester. The arrest this week of 98 of the late General Pinochet's secret service officers is only the latest eruption of uncleansed wounds.The men are charged with the disappearance in 1975 of 119 opponents of the regime, and of having taken part in the so-called Operation Colombo, an attempt to deflect international condemnation of the regime's human rights abuses by portraying the deaths as the result of internal disputes.In Chile, it has been left to the judges to find their way round the obstacles the political settlement placed in the path of the victims' families, and some have responded with more enthusiasm than others. The larger picture of the repression that followed Pinochet's coup in 1973 was painted by the Rettig commission, appointed in 1990 by the then president Patricio Aylwin. Aylwin had been president for a year, but Pinochet remained head of the army and a senator for life, in theory a position that gave him immunity from prosecution. The commission was appointed to establish the truth about the 3,000-plus disappearances that had taken place under the dictatorship - and in some ways it succeeded: thousands of witnesses testified and, in 1991, the commission produced its report.But the compromise - an understanding that the report would not be used as the basis for criminal prosecutions - allowed the perpetrators to remain anonymous. Bizarrely, this defect was to provide the judiciary with its opportunity to circumvent Pinochet's defences.Decree Law 2191, promulgated by Pinochet's regime in 1978, had prevented investigation of human rights crimes committed from the day of the coup, September 11 1973 to March 10 1978. The law, and the continued strength of the armed forces, had its effect until the arrest of Pinochet in London in 1998. When Pinochet was returned to Chile 17 months later, with the judgment of the House of Lords against his claim of sovereign immunity, Chilean justice began to recover its courage. Though the prosecution of Pinochet himself was never concluded, a few judges began to take the victims' cases, accepting the argument that, since the whereabouts of the victims remained unknown, the cases remained open, and were not subject to amnesty. The reluctance of the Chilean security services to produce evidence to the real fate of the victims proved their achilles heel. Now 650 former officers have been prosecuted. Such prosecutions are not universally popular: the crimes are more than 30 years old, and Chile has long since returned to democracy. But democracy is not just a matter of regular elections and a military obedience. For some of Chile's judges, silenced for the years of the dictatorship, there could be no return to normality without justice. The crimes of the dictatorship created many more victims than the 3,000 who were murdered: families were impoverished, young lives ruined through grief and exile and the trauma of living with the daily oppression of memories that could not be shared. For them, each step towards justice matters.isabel.hilton@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Chile", "Augusto Pinochet", "World news"], "title": "Isabel Hilton: Chile will never recover from Pinochet's legacy unless the victims of his regime are given justice"},{"date": "2008-05-04T23:08:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Patagonian community of Chait\u00e9n was a ghost town yesterday after a volcano spewed ash following its first eruption in thousands of years, forcing nearly 4,500 people to flee.The snow-capped volcano of Chait\u00e9n erupted on Friday, triggering tremors and sending a cloud of ash two miles into the air. There is no record of the volcano erupting in the past 2,000 years, according to the government mining and geology agency Sernageomin.The Southern Chilean town was deserted, after authorities evacuated residents by boat to Chilo\u00e9 island to the north and Puerto Montt on the mainland. Technicians were dispatched to restore telephone services and electricity to the area, 760 miles south of the capital, Santiago, while experts took water samples. Before they were ferried to safety, some people in the area wore white surgical face masks to avoid inhaling the ash that lay 15cm deep in some areas.The National Emergency Office said volcanic activity continued, with fine ash falling. Visibility remained poor and the smell of sulphur hung heavy in the air.\"The panorama here is pretty complicated,\" said the interior minister, Edmundo Perez Yoma, during a visit to the area. \"We have completed the first phase of the operation, which was the evacuation of practically all of the local population.\"We don't know if this is a situation that will last days, or weeks, or even more.\"Schools were closed on Friday, and hospitals treated people for irritated eyes and breathing difficulties.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Residents flee as Chile volcano erupts"},{"date": "2008-06-18T13:21:19Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We flew across the Chilean Altiplano until, like the world had been bleached, there lay ahead of us nothing but white. We hit the salt flats, riding fast, which felt very wrong, as our senses looked at the big slab of white and told us it had to be slippery, treacherous, no place for a motorcycle. But the tyres bit and gripped as sure as on concrete, and the crust crunched under us. Flamingos looked on. We passed through the Valley of the Moon as the light faded and the sun went through its valedictions, washing the rocks vermilion then gold then ochre. In the distance, a string of cartoon volcanoes, perfect calderas, and beyond, like a chimera, the High Andes, the brilliant white bonnets fading to grey.We rolled into San Pedro de Atacama, kicking up a trail of dust. San Pedro was once a major staging post for the great cattle drives of yore, but is now a staging post on the great gringo trail. It's the Dodge City of one's imagination, a Paramount backlot come to life, albeit with internet cafes and poncho shops. Upon entering a door I was surprised to find that there was actually a restaurant beyond, and not just wooden joists holding up the walls.We ordered some food. Tamales and llama steaks and beer that came in litre bottles. I was loving South America. In the middle of the room was an open fire. Above it a large circular hole in the ceiling, through which we gazed at the stars like diamonds. I asked the waiter what happened when it rained. It doesn't, he said.I spoke to Dave, who was on the trip with his wife, Liz. Dave worked in a Lincolnshire warehouse and had been saving for five years for the trip. It had been a fantastic introduction to riding in South America, he said, what with Globebusters taking care of shipping the bikes and visas, and next time he thinks he might be confident enough to go it alone. Mike, who was retired, had taken a few trips like this and loved the camaraderie and support. Similarly Resh, formerly known as The Raggedy One, who ran a care home for the elderly. Paul, from Coventry, worked for BT. His nickname was Gargoyle, he said. I asked him why and he stuck out his chin and held the pose. He looked a bit like a gargoyle.Most on the trip are Bambis \u2013 Born Again Mid-Life Bikers \u2013 returning to two wheels in middle age when family constraints and budgets allow. Very early the next morning, we headed off to see the El Tatio geysers. They pop their boiling spumes at exactly the moment the sun rises over the mountains, as surely as someone dropping Mentos into Diet Coke bottles, the physics of which was explained by our guide, but which I didn't fully take in owing to the fact that it was minus 50 and my brain had frozen.Then we were off to Argentina. Climbing slowly at first, more llama, then some weird-looking rabbits the size of wallabies, and then some things that looked like alpaca but with a certain skittishness. As if they might jump out in front of you and get you repatriated before you could say vicu\u00f1a. Vicu\u00f1as are not a good thing, as I had learnt on day one. I gave them a wide berth.Still climbing. Then suddenly there was nothing. No scrub, no cactus, no vicu\u00f1as, blessed be to God. Just an endless plain with the High Andes cradling and looming over it, like a proscenium arch. My ears popped. The motorbike's console flashed alarmingly. Minus two. Minus four. Minus six. That's the ground temperature. At 80 mph on a motorcycle it's more like minus 30. I lifted my visor to squeeze my nose. My gloves almost fused to it. I had my heated grips on, but I could have been clutching vials of magma and still I wouldn't have felt them. Still, it could have been worse. At least the asphyxiation-by-helmet I was suffering as we went over the 4,600-metre Paso de Jama took my mind off the cold. To fight off oedemas and to keep myself from slipping into a hypothermic coma, I repeated my mantra: \"This is not a holiday it's an adventure; this is not a holiday\u2026\"The border with Argentina lay somewhere up ahead. I just hoped that they had the space blankets ready.Tomorrow: Into the Valley of the ButterfliesGlobebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from April 21 to May 25 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Road trips", "Adventure travel", "Argentina holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great journeys: from Chile to Argentina by bike, part two"},{"date": "2008-05-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "No deal is ever perfect. The deals that were done in Latin America - the price of returning to constitutional rule after the military dictatorships that ravaged the sub-continent in the 70s and 80s - varied in detail but had one thing in common: they sacrificed the claims of justice for the victims in favour of a sometimes queasy political normalisation.But if the politics made sense, the detail did not: tens of thousands of families were left to live with their trauma unresolved, with no answer to anguished questions about the fate of children, parents or friends. They were arrangements designed as political sticking plaster, under which private injuries continued to fester. The arrest this week of 98 of the late General Pinochet's secret service officers is only the latest eruption of uncleansed wounds.The men are charged with the disappearance in 1975 of 119 opponents of the regime, and of having taken part in the so-called Operation Colombo, an attempt to deflect international condemnation of the regime's human rights abuses by portraying the deaths as the result of internal disputes.In Chile, it has been left to the judges to find their way round the obstacles the political settlement placed in the path of the victims' families, and some have responded with more enthusiasm than others. The larger picture of the repression that followed Pinochet's coup in 1973 was painted by the Rettig commission, appointed in 1990 by the then president Patricio Aylwin. Aylwin had been president for a year, but Pinochet remained head of the army and a senator for life, in theory a position that gave him immunity from prosecution. The commission was appointed to establish the truth about the 3,000-plus disappearances that had taken place under the dictatorship - and in some ways it succeeded: thousands of witnesses testified and, in 1991, the commission produced its report.But the compromise - an understanding that the report would not be used as the basis for criminal prosecutions - allowed the perpetrators to remain anonymous. Bizarrely, this defect was to provide the judiciary with its opportunity to circumvent Pinochet's defences.Decree Law 2191, promulgated by Pinochet's regime in 1978, had prevented investigation of human rights crimes committed from the day of the coup, September 11 1973 to March 10 1978. The law, and the continued strength of the armed forces, had its effect until the arrest of Pinochet in London in 1998. When Pinochet was returned to Chile 17 months later, with the judgment of the House of Lords against his claim of sovereign immunity, Chilean justice began to recover its courage. Though the prosecution of Pinochet himself was never concluded, a few judges began to take the victims' cases, accepting the argument that, since the whereabouts of the victims remained unknown, the cases remained open, and were not subject to amnesty. The reluctance of the Chilean security services to produce evidence to the real fate of the victims proved their achilles heel. Now 650 former officers have been prosecuted. Such prosecutions are not universally popular: the crimes are more than 30 years old, and Chile has long since returned to democracy. But democracy is not just a matter of regular elections and a military obedience. For some of Chile's judges, silenced for the years of the dictatorship, there could be no return to normality without justice. The crimes of the dictatorship created many more victims than the 3,000 who were murdered: families were impoverished, young lives ruined through grief and exile and the trauma of living with the daily oppression of memories that could not be shared. For them, each step towards justice matters.isabel.hilton@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Chile", "Augusto Pinochet", "World news"], "title": "Isabel Hilton: Chile will never recover from Pinochet's legacy unless the victims of his regime are given justice"},{"date": "2008-06-20T23:19:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Propagating is probably the last thing on most gardeners' minds right now; many of us are preparing a firework display on our plots with dahlias, cannas and other exotica. Instead of impulse-buying at the garden centre, you can personalise your choice by filling trays and plant pots with seeds and divisions of a multitude of dramatic plants. Being tropical or subtropical, many will put on weight rapidly. Even if they don't make it into this year's chorus line, they can wait in the wings for next year's performance - and by then they may even make top billing.From Chile, Lobelia tupa is a million miles away from our normal tiny blue lobelia experience. It makes a bold, shrub-like plant with thick, grey leaves, red stems and strange, brick-red blooms that look more like Mayan bird masks than flowers.Sticking to the flaming theme, Agastache cana from Mexico (try a selection called 'Firebird') has vivid flowers in lipstick colours and tiny grey leaves that throng its twiggy, 60cm tall bushes and smell like aniseed. Sow the big, striated beans of the castor oil plant, Ricinus communis, now and they should germinate within a fortnight and make chunky little plants to put out in a month's time. With plenty of water and loads of sun, their big, crimson, palmate leaves could be a feature of the autumn border. But beware - this plant is poisonous in all its parts, especially the seeds. Kniphofia is pretty easy to grow from seed, too, and though the results may be unpredictable, that is half the fun.Coloured-leaved lobelia such as 'Tania' and 'Russian Princess' are descended from Lobelia cardinalis and L. x vedrariensis. They have fine seed, but once they have germinated and grown on they can be divided easily into separate rosettes and potted. Once established, they can then be transplanted into beds and borders; keep them to the fore, where their dense, dark foliage makes an arresting feature. You might even get blooms this season - in shades of shocking pink, vibrant vermilion and royal purple, their spires are scintillating but slender, easy to see through and as exciting an introduction to the hot bed as anything you could buy.", "tags": ["Gardens", "Life and style", "Homes", "Gardening advice"], "title": "Carol Klein on growing tropical plants from seed"},{"date": "2008-05-04T23:08:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Patagonian community of Chait\u00e9n was a ghost town yesterday after a volcano spewed ash following its first eruption in thousands of years, forcing nearly 4,500 people to flee.The snow-capped volcano of Chait\u00e9n erupted on Friday, triggering tremors and sending a cloud of ash two miles into the air. There is no record of the volcano erupting in the past 2,000 years, according to the government mining and geology agency Sernageomin.The Southern Chilean town was deserted, after authorities evacuated residents by boat to Chilo\u00e9 island to the north and Puerto Montt on the mainland. Technicians were dispatched to restore telephone services and electricity to the area, 760 miles south of the capital, Santiago, while experts took water samples. Before they were ferried to safety, some people in the area wore white surgical face masks to avoid inhaling the ash that lay 15cm deep in some areas.The National Emergency Office said volcanic activity continued, with fine ash falling. Visibility remained poor and the smell of sulphur hung heavy in the air.\"The panorama here is pretty complicated,\" said the interior minister, Edmundo Perez Yoma, during a visit to the area. \"We have completed the first phase of the operation, which was the evacuation of practically all of the local population.\"We don't know if this is a situation that will last days, or weeks, or even more.\"Schools were closed on Friday, and hospitals treated people for irritated eyes and breathing difficulties.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Residents flee as Chile volcano erupts"},{"date": "2008-06-18T13:21:19Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We flew across the Chilean Altiplano until, like the world had been bleached, there lay ahead of us nothing but white. We hit the salt flats, riding fast, which felt very wrong, as our senses looked at the big slab of white and told us it had to be slippery, treacherous, no place for a motorcycle. But the tyres bit and gripped as sure as on concrete, and the crust crunched under us. Flamingos looked on. We passed through the Valley of the Moon as the light faded and the sun went through its valedictions, washing the rocks vermilion then gold then ochre. In the distance, a string of cartoon volcanoes, perfect calderas, and beyond, like a chimera, the High Andes, the brilliant white bonnets fading to grey.We rolled into San Pedro de Atacama, kicking up a trail of dust. San Pedro was once a major staging post for the great cattle drives of yore, but is now a staging post on the great gringo trail. It's the Dodge City of one's imagination, a Paramount backlot come to life, albeit with internet cafes and poncho shops. Upon entering a door I was surprised to find that there was actually a restaurant beyond, and not just wooden joists holding up the walls.We ordered some food. Tamales and llama steaks and beer that came in litre bottles. I was loving South America. In the middle of the room was an open fire. Above it a large circular hole in the ceiling, through which we gazed at the stars like diamonds. I asked the waiter what happened when it rained. It doesn't, he said.I spoke to Dave, who was on the trip with his wife, Liz. Dave worked in a Lincolnshire warehouse and had been saving for five years for the trip. It had been a fantastic introduction to riding in South America, he said, what with Globebusters taking care of shipping the bikes and visas, and next time he thinks he might be confident enough to go it alone. Mike, who was retired, had taken a few trips like this and loved the camaraderie and support. Similarly Resh, formerly known as The Raggedy One, who ran a care home for the elderly. Paul, from Coventry, worked for BT. His nickname was Gargoyle, he said. I asked him why and he stuck out his chin and held the pose. He looked a bit like a gargoyle.Most on the trip are Bambis \u2013 Born Again Mid-Life Bikers \u2013 returning to two wheels in middle age when family constraints and budgets allow. Very early the next morning, we headed off to see the El Tatio geysers. They pop their boiling spumes at exactly the moment the sun rises over the mountains, as surely as someone dropping Mentos into Diet Coke bottles, the physics of which was explained by our guide, but which I didn't fully take in owing to the fact that it was minus 50 and my brain had frozen.Then we were off to Argentina. Climbing slowly at first, more llama, then some weird-looking rabbits the size of wallabies, and then some things that looked like alpaca but with a certain skittishness. As if they might jump out in front of you and get you repatriated before you could say vicu\u00f1a. Vicu\u00f1as are not a good thing, as I had learnt on day one. I gave them a wide berth.Still climbing. Then suddenly there was nothing. No scrub, no cactus, no vicu\u00f1as, blessed be to God. Just an endless plain with the High Andes cradling and looming over it, like a proscenium arch. My ears popped. The motorbike's console flashed alarmingly. Minus two. Minus four. Minus six. That's the ground temperature. At 80 mph on a motorcycle it's more like minus 30. I lifted my visor to squeeze my nose. My gloves almost fused to it. I had my heated grips on, but I could have been clutching vials of magma and still I wouldn't have felt them. Still, it could have been worse. At least the asphyxiation-by-helmet I was suffering as we went over the 4,600-metre Paso de Jama took my mind off the cold. To fight off oedemas and to keep myself from slipping into a hypothermic coma, I repeated my mantra: \"This is not a holiday it's an adventure; this is not a holiday\u2026\"The border with Argentina lay somewhere up ahead. I just hoped that they had the space blankets ready.Tomorrow: Into the Valley of the ButterfliesGlobebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from April 21 to May 25 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Road trips", "Adventure travel", "Argentina holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great journeys: from Chile to Argentina by bike, part two"},{"date": "2008-05-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "No deal is ever perfect. The deals that were done in Latin America - the price of returning to constitutional rule after the military dictatorships that ravaged the sub-continent in the 70s and 80s - varied in detail but had one thing in common: they sacrificed the claims of justice for the victims in favour of a sometimes queasy political normalisation.But if the politics made sense, the detail did not: tens of thousands of families were left to live with their trauma unresolved, with no answer to anguished questions about the fate of children, parents or friends. They were arrangements designed as political sticking plaster, under which private injuries continued to fester. The arrest this week of 98 of the late General Pinochet's secret service officers is only the latest eruption of uncleansed wounds.The men are charged with the disappearance in 1975 of 119 opponents of the regime, and of having taken part in the so-called Operation Colombo, an attempt to deflect international condemnation of the regime's human rights abuses by portraying the deaths as the result of internal disputes.In Chile, it has been left to the judges to find their way round the obstacles the political settlement placed in the path of the victims' families, and some have responded with more enthusiasm than others. The larger picture of the repression that followed Pinochet's coup in 1973 was painted by the Rettig commission, appointed in 1990 by the then president Patricio Aylwin. Aylwin had been president for a year, but Pinochet remained head of the army and a senator for life, in theory a position that gave him immunity from prosecution. The commission was appointed to establish the truth about the 3,000-plus disappearances that had taken place under the dictatorship - and in some ways it succeeded: thousands of witnesses testified and, in 1991, the commission produced its report.But the compromise - an understanding that the report would not be used as the basis for criminal prosecutions - allowed the perpetrators to remain anonymous. Bizarrely, this defect was to provide the judiciary with its opportunity to circumvent Pinochet's defences.Decree Law 2191, promulgated by Pinochet's regime in 1978, had prevented investigation of human rights crimes committed from the day of the coup, September 11 1973 to March 10 1978. The law, and the continued strength of the armed forces, had its effect until the arrest of Pinochet in London in 1998. When Pinochet was returned to Chile 17 months later, with the judgment of the House of Lords against his claim of sovereign immunity, Chilean justice began to recover its courage. Though the prosecution of Pinochet himself was never concluded, a few judges began to take the victims' cases, accepting the argument that, since the whereabouts of the victims remained unknown, the cases remained open, and were not subject to amnesty. The reluctance of the Chilean security services to produce evidence to the real fate of the victims proved their achilles heel. Now 650 former officers have been prosecuted. Such prosecutions are not universally popular: the crimes are more than 30 years old, and Chile has long since returned to democracy. But democracy is not just a matter of regular elections and a military obedience. For some of Chile's judges, silenced for the years of the dictatorship, there could be no return to normality without justice. The crimes of the dictatorship created many more victims than the 3,000 who were murdered: families were impoverished, young lives ruined through grief and exile and the trauma of living with the daily oppression of memories that could not be shared. For them, each step towards justice matters.isabel.hilton@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Chile", "Augusto Pinochet", "World news"], "title": "Isabel Hilton: Chile will never recover from Pinochet's legacy unless the victims of his regime are given justice"},{"date": "2008-06-20T23:19:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Propagating is probably the last thing on most gardeners' minds right now; many of us are preparing a firework display on our plots with dahlias, cannas and other exotica. Instead of impulse-buying at the garden centre, you can personalise your choice by filling trays and plant pots with seeds and divisions of a multitude of dramatic plants. Being tropical or subtropical, many will put on weight rapidly. Even if they don't make it into this year's chorus line, they can wait in the wings for next year's performance - and by then they may even make top billing.From Chile, Lobelia tupa is a million miles away from our normal tiny blue lobelia experience. It makes a bold, shrub-like plant with thick, grey leaves, red stems and strange, brick-red blooms that look more like Mayan bird masks than flowers.Sticking to the flaming theme, Agastache cana from Mexico (try a selection called 'Firebird') has vivid flowers in lipstick colours and tiny grey leaves that throng its twiggy, 60cm tall bushes and smell like aniseed. Sow the big, striated beans of the castor oil plant, Ricinus communis, now and they should germinate within a fortnight and make chunky little plants to put out in a month's time. With plenty of water and loads of sun, their big, crimson, palmate leaves could be a feature of the autumn border. But beware - this plant is poisonous in all its parts, especially the seeds. Kniphofia is pretty easy to grow from seed, too, and though the results may be unpredictable, that is half the fun.Coloured-leaved lobelia such as 'Tania' and 'Russian Princess' are descended from Lobelia cardinalis and L. x vedrariensis. They have fine seed, but once they have germinated and grown on they can be divided easily into separate rosettes and potted. Once established, they can then be transplanted into beds and borders; keep them to the fore, where their dense, dark foliage makes an arresting feature. You might even get blooms this season - in shades of shocking pink, vibrant vermilion and royal purple, their spires are scintillating but slender, easy to see through and as exciting an introduction to the hot bed as anything you could buy.", "tags": ["Gardens", "Life and style", "Homes", "Gardening advice"], "title": "Carol Klein on growing tropical plants from seed"},{"date": "2008-06-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday June 19 2008In the article below we wrongly described the town of La Junta as being in Argentina. The town is in southern Chile, near the Chait\u00e9n volcano. This has been corrected. Survivors of a plane crash in southern Chile who spent five days huddled in a broken fuselage in sub-zero temperatures said yesterday they considered cannibalism during their ordeal, in an echo of an Andean plane crash 36 years ago.The Cessna 208 with nine passengers crashed into a mountainside in Patagonia, near La Junta, on Saturday. Recent volcanic explosions in the region have forced air routes out to sea, taking experienced pilots off their normal course. \"We were flying in very bad conditons. There was rain and sleet. We were only 10 minutes from arriving,\" said Jose Miguel Almonacid, one of the survivors.\"Suddenly, we went into a cloud and when we came out, we were in front of the mountain. I managed to scream 'watch out' when I heard the explosion.\"On Wednesday afternoon a Blackhawk helicopter from the Chilean air force spotted the Cessna half buried in the forest, but due to wind, snow and the inaccessability of the site the rescue operation continued throughout Thursday, with the nine passengers and the body of the pilot still unable to be removed.\"There was snow, cold, too much snow and storms,\" said Almonacid. \"We bunched up, that's it. We prayed a lot, because I am a believer in God and another companion as well. I was thinking about how badly they must be suffering because I imagined my funeral and all.\"The survivors and pilot huddled inside the felage, eating crackers and trying to maintain a fire in sub zero temperatures. Pilot Nelson Bahamondes survived the initial impact but slowly bled to death inside the cockpit, finally dying two days after the crash.Bahamondes, an experienced pilot with an estimated 16,000 hours of flying time, provided leadership and guidance throughout the first two days of the ordeal, explaining to the passengers that a radio transmitter would help rescuers locate the craft. As the food ran out, Bahmondes died. \"He had a cut on his head, a big wound and he lost lots of blood,\" said Victor Suazo, a Chilean police officer who was aboard the flight. \"We couldn't do anything for him and he died around noon on Monday.\" Soon after, the survivors' hunger began to deplete their strength and they debated whether to eat the pilot. \"We thought about the pilot, I don't know how to say it ... to feed ourselves from him. We thought about this, but some people were not in agreement because the situation was already so extreme.\"The accident recalled the 1972 plane crash in which a Uruguayan rugby team crashed into Andean snowfields, then ate dead teammates to survive. The book and film Alive were based on their 72-day struggle to survive.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Plane crashes", "Air transport"], "title": "Crash survivors considered eating pilot"},{"date": "2008-05-04T23:08:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Patagonian community of Chait\u00e9n was a ghost town yesterday after a volcano spewed ash following its first eruption in thousands of years, forcing nearly 4,500 people to flee.The snow-capped volcano of Chait\u00e9n erupted on Friday, triggering tremors and sending a cloud of ash two miles into the air. There is no record of the volcano erupting in the past 2,000 years, according to the government mining and geology agency Sernageomin.The Southern Chilean town was deserted, after authorities evacuated residents by boat to Chilo\u00e9 island to the north and Puerto Montt on the mainland. Technicians were dispatched to restore telephone services and electricity to the area, 760 miles south of the capital, Santiago, while experts took water samples. Before they were ferried to safety, some people in the area wore white surgical face masks to avoid inhaling the ash that lay 15cm deep in some areas.The National Emergency Office said volcanic activity continued, with fine ash falling. Visibility remained poor and the smell of sulphur hung heavy in the air.\"The panorama here is pretty complicated,\" said the interior minister, Edmundo Perez Yoma, during a visit to the area. \"We have completed the first phase of the operation, which was the evacuation of practically all of the local population.\"We don't know if this is a situation that will last days, or weeks, or even more.\"Schools were closed on Friday, and hospitals treated people for irritated eyes and breathing difficulties.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Residents flee as Chile volcano erupts"},{"date": "2008-06-18T13:21:19Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We flew across the Chilean Altiplano until, like the world had been bleached, there lay ahead of us nothing but white. We hit the salt flats, riding fast, which felt very wrong, as our senses looked at the big slab of white and told us it had to be slippery, treacherous, no place for a motorcycle. But the tyres bit and gripped as sure as on concrete, and the crust crunched under us. Flamingos looked on. We passed through the Valley of the Moon as the light faded and the sun went through its valedictions, washing the rocks vermilion then gold then ochre. In the distance, a string of cartoon volcanoes, perfect calderas, and beyond, like a chimera, the High Andes, the brilliant white bonnets fading to grey.We rolled into San Pedro de Atacama, kicking up a trail of dust. San Pedro was once a major staging post for the great cattle drives of yore, but is now a staging post on the great gringo trail. It's the Dodge City of one's imagination, a Paramount backlot come to life, albeit with internet cafes and poncho shops. Upon entering a door I was surprised to find that there was actually a restaurant beyond, and not just wooden joists holding up the walls.We ordered some food. Tamales and llama steaks and beer that came in litre bottles. I was loving South America. In the middle of the room was an open fire. Above it a large circular hole in the ceiling, through which we gazed at the stars like diamonds. I asked the waiter what happened when it rained. It doesn't, he said.I spoke to Dave, who was on the trip with his wife, Liz. Dave worked in a Lincolnshire warehouse and had been saving for five years for the trip. It had been a fantastic introduction to riding in South America, he said, what with Globebusters taking care of shipping the bikes and visas, and next time he thinks he might be confident enough to go it alone. Mike, who was retired, had taken a few trips like this and loved the camaraderie and support. Similarly Resh, formerly known as The Raggedy One, who ran a care home for the elderly. Paul, from Coventry, worked for BT. His nickname was Gargoyle, he said. I asked him why and he stuck out his chin and held the pose. He looked a bit like a gargoyle.Most on the trip are Bambis \u2013 Born Again Mid-Life Bikers \u2013 returning to two wheels in middle age when family constraints and budgets allow. Very early the next morning, we headed off to see the El Tatio geysers. They pop their boiling spumes at exactly the moment the sun rises over the mountains, as surely as someone dropping Mentos into Diet Coke bottles, the physics of which was explained by our guide, but which I didn't fully take in owing to the fact that it was minus 50 and my brain had frozen.Then we were off to Argentina. Climbing slowly at first, more llama, then some weird-looking rabbits the size of wallabies, and then some things that looked like alpaca but with a certain skittishness. As if they might jump out in front of you and get you repatriated before you could say vicu\u00f1a. Vicu\u00f1as are not a good thing, as I had learnt on day one. I gave them a wide berth.Still climbing. Then suddenly there was nothing. No scrub, no cactus, no vicu\u00f1as, blessed be to God. Just an endless plain with the High Andes cradling and looming over it, like a proscenium arch. My ears popped. The motorbike's console flashed alarmingly. Minus two. Minus four. Minus six. That's the ground temperature. At 80 mph on a motorcycle it's more like minus 30. I lifted my visor to squeeze my nose. My gloves almost fused to it. I had my heated grips on, but I could have been clutching vials of magma and still I wouldn't have felt them. Still, it could have been worse. At least the asphyxiation-by-helmet I was suffering as we went over the 4,600-metre Paso de Jama took my mind off the cold. To fight off oedemas and to keep myself from slipping into a hypothermic coma, I repeated my mantra: \"This is not a holiday it's an adventure; this is not a holiday\u2026\"The border with Argentina lay somewhere up ahead. I just hoped that they had the space blankets ready.Tomorrow: Into the Valley of the ButterfliesGlobebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from April 21 to May 25 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Road trips", "Adventure travel", "Argentina holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great journeys: from Chile to Argentina by bike, part two"},{"date": "2008-05-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "No deal is ever perfect. The deals that were done in Latin America - the price of returning to constitutional rule after the military dictatorships that ravaged the sub-continent in the 70s and 80s - varied in detail but had one thing in common: they sacrificed the claims of justice for the victims in favour of a sometimes queasy political normalisation.But if the politics made sense, the detail did not: tens of thousands of families were left to live with their trauma unresolved, with no answer to anguished questions about the fate of children, parents or friends. They were arrangements designed as political sticking plaster, under which private injuries continued to fester. The arrest this week of 98 of the late General Pinochet's secret service officers is only the latest eruption of uncleansed wounds.The men are charged with the disappearance in 1975 of 119 opponents of the regime, and of having taken part in the so-called Operation Colombo, an attempt to deflect international condemnation of the regime's human rights abuses by portraying the deaths as the result of internal disputes.In Chile, it has been left to the judges to find their way round the obstacles the political settlement placed in the path of the victims' families, and some have responded with more enthusiasm than others. The larger picture of the repression that followed Pinochet's coup in 1973 was painted by the Rettig commission, appointed in 1990 by the then president Patricio Aylwin. Aylwin had been president for a year, but Pinochet remained head of the army and a senator for life, in theory a position that gave him immunity from prosecution. The commission was appointed to establish the truth about the 3,000-plus disappearances that had taken place under the dictatorship - and in some ways it succeeded: thousands of witnesses testified and, in 1991, the commission produced its report.But the compromise - an understanding that the report would not be used as the basis for criminal prosecutions - allowed the perpetrators to remain anonymous. Bizarrely, this defect was to provide the judiciary with its opportunity to circumvent Pinochet's defences.Decree Law 2191, promulgated by Pinochet's regime in 1978, had prevented investigation of human rights crimes committed from the day of the coup, September 11 1973 to March 10 1978. The law, and the continued strength of the armed forces, had its effect until the arrest of Pinochet in London in 1998. When Pinochet was returned to Chile 17 months later, with the judgment of the House of Lords against his claim of sovereign immunity, Chilean justice began to recover its courage. Though the prosecution of Pinochet himself was never concluded, a few judges began to take the victims' cases, accepting the argument that, since the whereabouts of the victims remained unknown, the cases remained open, and were not subject to amnesty. The reluctance of the Chilean security services to produce evidence to the real fate of the victims proved their achilles heel. Now 650 former officers have been prosecuted. Such prosecutions are not universally popular: the crimes are more than 30 years old, and Chile has long since returned to democracy. But democracy is not just a matter of regular elections and a military obedience. For some of Chile's judges, silenced for the years of the dictatorship, there could be no return to normality without justice. The crimes of the dictatorship created many more victims than the 3,000 who were murdered: families were impoverished, young lives ruined through grief and exile and the trauma of living with the daily oppression of memories that could not be shared. For them, each step towards justice matters.isabel.hilton@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Chile", "Augusto Pinochet", "World news"], "title": "Isabel Hilton: Chile will never recover from Pinochet's legacy unless the victims of his regime are given justice"},{"date": "2008-06-20T23:19:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Propagating is probably the last thing on most gardeners' minds right now; many of us are preparing a firework display on our plots with dahlias, cannas and other exotica. Instead of impulse-buying at the garden centre, you can personalise your choice by filling trays and plant pots with seeds and divisions of a multitude of dramatic plants. Being tropical or subtropical, many will put on weight rapidly. Even if they don't make it into this year's chorus line, they can wait in the wings for next year's performance - and by then they may even make top billing.From Chile, Lobelia tupa is a million miles away from our normal tiny blue lobelia experience. It makes a bold, shrub-like plant with thick, grey leaves, red stems and strange, brick-red blooms that look more like Mayan bird masks than flowers.Sticking to the flaming theme, Agastache cana from Mexico (try a selection called 'Firebird') has vivid flowers in lipstick colours and tiny grey leaves that throng its twiggy, 60cm tall bushes and smell like aniseed. Sow the big, striated beans of the castor oil plant, Ricinus communis, now and they should germinate within a fortnight and make chunky little plants to put out in a month's time. With plenty of water and loads of sun, their big, crimson, palmate leaves could be a feature of the autumn border. But beware - this plant is poisonous in all its parts, especially the seeds. Kniphofia is pretty easy to grow from seed, too, and though the results may be unpredictable, that is half the fun.Coloured-leaved lobelia such as 'Tania' and 'Russian Princess' are descended from Lobelia cardinalis and L. x vedrariensis. They have fine seed, but once they have germinated and grown on they can be divided easily into separate rosettes and potted. Once established, they can then be transplanted into beds and borders; keep them to the fore, where their dense, dark foliage makes an arresting feature. You might even get blooms this season - in shades of shocking pink, vibrant vermilion and royal purple, their spires are scintillating but slender, easy to see through and as exciting an introduction to the hot bed as anything you could buy.", "tags": ["Gardens", "Life and style", "Homes", "Gardening advice"], "title": "Carol Klein on growing tropical plants from seed"},{"date": "2008-06-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday June 19 2008In the article below we wrongly described the town of La Junta as being in Argentina. The town is in southern Chile, near the Chait\u00e9n volcano. This has been corrected. Survivors of a plane crash in southern Chile who spent five days huddled in a broken fuselage in sub-zero temperatures said yesterday they considered cannibalism during their ordeal, in an echo of an Andean plane crash 36 years ago.The Cessna 208 with nine passengers crashed into a mountainside in Patagonia, near La Junta, on Saturday. Recent volcanic explosions in the region have forced air routes out to sea, taking experienced pilots off their normal course. \"We were flying in very bad conditons. There was rain and sleet. We were only 10 minutes from arriving,\" said Jose Miguel Almonacid, one of the survivors.\"Suddenly, we went into a cloud and when we came out, we were in front of the mountain. I managed to scream 'watch out' when I heard the explosion.\"On Wednesday afternoon a Blackhawk helicopter from the Chilean air force spotted the Cessna half buried in the forest, but due to wind, snow and the inaccessability of the site the rescue operation continued throughout Thursday, with the nine passengers and the body of the pilot still unable to be removed.\"There was snow, cold, too much snow and storms,\" said Almonacid. \"We bunched up, that's it. We prayed a lot, because I am a believer in God and another companion as well. I was thinking about how badly they must be suffering because I imagined my funeral and all.\"The survivors and pilot huddled inside the felage, eating crackers and trying to maintain a fire in sub zero temperatures. Pilot Nelson Bahamondes survived the initial impact but slowly bled to death inside the cockpit, finally dying two days after the crash.Bahamondes, an experienced pilot with an estimated 16,000 hours of flying time, provided leadership and guidance throughout the first two days of the ordeal, explaining to the passengers that a radio transmitter would help rescuers locate the craft. As the food ran out, Bahmondes died. \"He had a cut on his head, a big wound and he lost lots of blood,\" said Victor Suazo, a Chilean police officer who was aboard the flight. \"We couldn't do anything for him and he died around noon on Monday.\" Soon after, the survivors' hunger began to deplete their strength and they debated whether to eat the pilot. \"We thought about the pilot, I don't know how to say it ... to feed ourselves from him. We thought about this, but some people were not in agreement because the situation was already so extreme.\"The accident recalled the 1972 plane crash in which a Uruguayan rugby team crashed into Andean snowfields, then ate dead teammates to survive. The book and film Alive were based on their 72-day struggle to survive.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Plane crashes", "Air transport"], "title": "Crash survivors considered eating pilot"},{"date": "2008-05-07T14:26:56Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Around 20 families were today refusing to leave their homes despite an order for all residents near an erupting Chilean volcano to be evacuated.Lava began spewing from the Chait\u00e9n volcano, in southern Chile, yesterday, prompting authorities to demand the immediate evacuation of all those remaining in a nearby town.However, some families were refusing to leave their homes in the town of Chait\u00e9n despite of the order.The eruption has not been reported to have directly caused any deaths or injuries, but a 92-year-old woman died of a heart attack as she was evacuated on Sunday.The volcano, in Patagonia and around 760 miles south of the Chilean capital, Santiago, began erupting on Friday, sending plumes of ash into the sky and covering an area of more than 60 square miles.Chile's government ordered the evacuation of Chait\u00e9n, near the Gulf of Corcovado and six miles from the volcano, and Futaleuf\u00fa, about 37 miles south-west of Chait\u00e9n.Rodrigo Rojas, a national emergency official, said: \"Today the volcano is erupting with pyroplastic material on a different scale. We ... have ordered the immediate precautionary evacuation of all civilians, military and press in Chait\u00e9n.\"The National Emergency Office said the volcano was spitting pieces of lava and rock. \"We hope the evacuation happens in an optimum way,\" Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, said. \"I hope this evolves in the least harmful way possible.\"Luis Lara, a government geologist, said he did not expect a catastrophic collapse of the volcano, but warned that a cloud of dense and very hot material could coat the surrounding land.\"This produces a more complicated scenario,\" he said. \"A dense cloud of pyroplastic material could move down its slopes, and that causes much more damage [than a spray of lava]. \"The entire volcano will not [collapse], but the eruptive column could, and that is sufficient material to be displaced down its sides and into areas nearby. Lava flow would not reach Chait\u00e9n but hot fragments, ash and gas could.\"The contamination of the area is likely to devastate the economy of a region that is mainly agrarian. Around 25,000 cattle and sheep are at imminent risk of dying from eating contaminated plants and drinking water. The Chilean navy has shipped feed to the region, and animals have also been evacuated to uncontaminated areas. Some civil engineers predicted that soil and plant life may not recover for several decades. ''The soil in the area covered by this volume of ash deposits will be practically lost,\" Wilfredo Vera, an engineer from the University of Chile, told a Chilean radio station. \"Agricultural production will be virtually nil.\"Chile has the world's second-most active string of volcanoes, behind Indonesia, but this is the first time the Chait\u00e9n volcano has erupted in at least 2,000 years, according to geologists.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Environment", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Families refuse to flee Chilean volcano eruption"},{"date": "2008-05-04T23:08:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Patagonian community of Chait\u00e9n was a ghost town yesterday after a volcano spewed ash following its first eruption in thousands of years, forcing nearly 4,500 people to flee.The snow-capped volcano of Chait\u00e9n erupted on Friday, triggering tremors and sending a cloud of ash two miles into the air. There is no record of the volcano erupting in the past 2,000 years, according to the government mining and geology agency Sernageomin.The Southern Chilean town was deserted, after authorities evacuated residents by boat to Chilo\u00e9 island to the north and Puerto Montt on the mainland. Technicians were dispatched to restore telephone services and electricity to the area, 760 miles south of the capital, Santiago, while experts took water samples. Before they were ferried to safety, some people in the area wore white surgical face masks to avoid inhaling the ash that lay 15cm deep in some areas.The National Emergency Office said volcanic activity continued, with fine ash falling. Visibility remained poor and the smell of sulphur hung heavy in the air.\"The panorama here is pretty complicated,\" said the interior minister, Edmundo Perez Yoma, during a visit to the area. \"We have completed the first phase of the operation, which was the evacuation of practically all of the local population.\"We don't know if this is a situation that will last days, or weeks, or even more.\"Schools were closed on Friday, and hospitals treated people for irritated eyes and breathing difficulties.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Residents flee as Chile volcano erupts"},{"date": "2008-06-18T13:21:19Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We flew across the Chilean Altiplano until, like the world had been bleached, there lay ahead of us nothing but white. We hit the salt flats, riding fast, which felt very wrong, as our senses looked at the big slab of white and told us it had to be slippery, treacherous, no place for a motorcycle. But the tyres bit and gripped as sure as on concrete, and the crust crunched under us. Flamingos looked on. We passed through the Valley of the Moon as the light faded and the sun went through its valedictions, washing the rocks vermilion then gold then ochre. In the distance, a string of cartoon volcanoes, perfect calderas, and beyond, like a chimera, the High Andes, the brilliant white bonnets fading to grey.We rolled into San Pedro de Atacama, kicking up a trail of dust. San Pedro was once a major staging post for the great cattle drives of yore, but is now a staging post on the great gringo trail. It's the Dodge City of one's imagination, a Paramount backlot come to life, albeit with internet cafes and poncho shops. Upon entering a door I was surprised to find that there was actually a restaurant beyond, and not just wooden joists holding up the walls.We ordered some food. Tamales and llama steaks and beer that came in litre bottles. I was loving South America. In the middle of the room was an open fire. Above it a large circular hole in the ceiling, through which we gazed at the stars like diamonds. I asked the waiter what happened when it rained. It doesn't, he said.I spoke to Dave, who was on the trip with his wife, Liz. Dave worked in a Lincolnshire warehouse and had been saving for five years for the trip. It had been a fantastic introduction to riding in South America, he said, what with Globebusters taking care of shipping the bikes and visas, and next time he thinks he might be confident enough to go it alone. Mike, who was retired, had taken a few trips like this and loved the camaraderie and support. Similarly Resh, formerly known as The Raggedy One, who ran a care home for the elderly. Paul, from Coventry, worked for BT. His nickname was Gargoyle, he said. I asked him why and he stuck out his chin and held the pose. He looked a bit like a gargoyle.Most on the trip are Bambis \u2013 Born Again Mid-Life Bikers \u2013 returning to two wheels in middle age when family constraints and budgets allow. Very early the next morning, we headed off to see the El Tatio geysers. They pop their boiling spumes at exactly the moment the sun rises over the mountains, as surely as someone dropping Mentos into Diet Coke bottles, the physics of which was explained by our guide, but which I didn't fully take in owing to the fact that it was minus 50 and my brain had frozen.Then we were off to Argentina. Climbing slowly at first, more llama, then some weird-looking rabbits the size of wallabies, and then some things that looked like alpaca but with a certain skittishness. As if they might jump out in front of you and get you repatriated before you could say vicu\u00f1a. Vicu\u00f1as are not a good thing, as I had learnt on day one. I gave them a wide berth.Still climbing. Then suddenly there was nothing. No scrub, no cactus, no vicu\u00f1as, blessed be to God. Just an endless plain with the High Andes cradling and looming over it, like a proscenium arch. My ears popped. The motorbike's console flashed alarmingly. Minus two. Minus four. Minus six. That's the ground temperature. At 80 mph on a motorcycle it's more like minus 30. I lifted my visor to squeeze my nose. My gloves almost fused to it. I had my heated grips on, but I could have been clutching vials of magma and still I wouldn't have felt them. Still, it could have been worse. At least the asphyxiation-by-helmet I was suffering as we went over the 4,600-metre Paso de Jama took my mind off the cold. To fight off oedemas and to keep myself from slipping into a hypothermic coma, I repeated my mantra: \"This is not a holiday it's an adventure; this is not a holiday\u2026\"The border with Argentina lay somewhere up ahead. I just hoped that they had the space blankets ready.Tomorrow: Into the Valley of the ButterfliesGlobebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from April 21 to May 25 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Road trips", "Adventure travel", "Argentina holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great journeys: from Chile to Argentina by bike, part two"},{"date": "2008-05-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "No deal is ever perfect. The deals that were done in Latin America - the price of returning to constitutional rule after the military dictatorships that ravaged the sub-continent in the 70s and 80s - varied in detail but had one thing in common: they sacrificed the claims of justice for the victims in favour of a sometimes queasy political normalisation.But if the politics made sense, the detail did not: tens of thousands of families were left to live with their trauma unresolved, with no answer to anguished questions about the fate of children, parents or friends. They were arrangements designed as political sticking plaster, under which private injuries continued to fester. The arrest this week of 98 of the late General Pinochet's secret service officers is only the latest eruption of uncleansed wounds.The men are charged with the disappearance in 1975 of 119 opponents of the regime, and of having taken part in the so-called Operation Colombo, an attempt to deflect international condemnation of the regime's human rights abuses by portraying the deaths as the result of internal disputes.In Chile, it has been left to the judges to find their way round the obstacles the political settlement placed in the path of the victims' families, and some have responded with more enthusiasm than others. The larger picture of the repression that followed Pinochet's coup in 1973 was painted by the Rettig commission, appointed in 1990 by the then president Patricio Aylwin. Aylwin had been president for a year, but Pinochet remained head of the army and a senator for life, in theory a position that gave him immunity from prosecution. The commission was appointed to establish the truth about the 3,000-plus disappearances that had taken place under the dictatorship - and in some ways it succeeded: thousands of witnesses testified and, in 1991, the commission produced its report.But the compromise - an understanding that the report would not be used as the basis for criminal prosecutions - allowed the perpetrators to remain anonymous. Bizarrely, this defect was to provide the judiciary with its opportunity to circumvent Pinochet's defences.Decree Law 2191, promulgated by Pinochet's regime in 1978, had prevented investigation of human rights crimes committed from the day of the coup, September 11 1973 to March 10 1978. The law, and the continued strength of the armed forces, had its effect until the arrest of Pinochet in London in 1998. When Pinochet was returned to Chile 17 months later, with the judgment of the House of Lords against his claim of sovereign immunity, Chilean justice began to recover its courage. Though the prosecution of Pinochet himself was never concluded, a few judges began to take the victims' cases, accepting the argument that, since the whereabouts of the victims remained unknown, the cases remained open, and were not subject to amnesty. The reluctance of the Chilean security services to produce evidence to the real fate of the victims proved their achilles heel. Now 650 former officers have been prosecuted. Such prosecutions are not universally popular: the crimes are more than 30 years old, and Chile has long since returned to democracy. But democracy is not just a matter of regular elections and a military obedience. For some of Chile's judges, silenced for the years of the dictatorship, there could be no return to normality without justice. The crimes of the dictatorship created many more victims than the 3,000 who were murdered: families were impoverished, young lives ruined through grief and exile and the trauma of living with the daily oppression of memories that could not be shared. For them, each step towards justice matters.isabel.hilton@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Chile", "Augusto Pinochet", "World news"], "title": "Isabel Hilton: Chile will never recover from Pinochet's legacy unless the victims of his regime are given justice"},{"date": "2008-06-20T23:19:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Propagating is probably the last thing on most gardeners' minds right now; many of us are preparing a firework display on our plots with dahlias, cannas and other exotica. Instead of impulse-buying at the garden centre, you can personalise your choice by filling trays and plant pots with seeds and divisions of a multitude of dramatic plants. Being tropical or subtropical, many will put on weight rapidly. Even if they don't make it into this year's chorus line, they can wait in the wings for next year's performance - and by then they may even make top billing.From Chile, Lobelia tupa is a million miles away from our normal tiny blue lobelia experience. It makes a bold, shrub-like plant with thick, grey leaves, red stems and strange, brick-red blooms that look more like Mayan bird masks than flowers.Sticking to the flaming theme, Agastache cana from Mexico (try a selection called 'Firebird') has vivid flowers in lipstick colours and tiny grey leaves that throng its twiggy, 60cm tall bushes and smell like aniseed. Sow the big, striated beans of the castor oil plant, Ricinus communis, now and they should germinate within a fortnight and make chunky little plants to put out in a month's time. With plenty of water and loads of sun, their big, crimson, palmate leaves could be a feature of the autumn border. But beware - this plant is poisonous in all its parts, especially the seeds. Kniphofia is pretty easy to grow from seed, too, and though the results may be unpredictable, that is half the fun.Coloured-leaved lobelia such as 'Tania' and 'Russian Princess' are descended from Lobelia cardinalis and L. x vedrariensis. They have fine seed, but once they have germinated and grown on they can be divided easily into separate rosettes and potted. Once established, they can then be transplanted into beds and borders; keep them to the fore, where their dense, dark foliage makes an arresting feature. You might even get blooms this season - in shades of shocking pink, vibrant vermilion and royal purple, their spires are scintillating but slender, easy to see through and as exciting an introduction to the hot bed as anything you could buy.", "tags": ["Gardens", "Life and style", "Homes", "Gardening advice"], "title": "Carol Klein on growing tropical plants from seed"},{"date": "2008-06-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday June 19 2008In the article below we wrongly described the town of La Junta as being in Argentina. The town is in southern Chile, near the Chait\u00e9n volcano. This has been corrected. Survivors of a plane crash in southern Chile who spent five days huddled in a broken fuselage in sub-zero temperatures said yesterday they considered cannibalism during their ordeal, in an echo of an Andean plane crash 36 years ago.The Cessna 208 with nine passengers crashed into a mountainside in Patagonia, near La Junta, on Saturday. Recent volcanic explosions in the region have forced air routes out to sea, taking experienced pilots off their normal course. \"We were flying in very bad conditons. There was rain and sleet. We were only 10 minutes from arriving,\" said Jose Miguel Almonacid, one of the survivors.\"Suddenly, we went into a cloud and when we came out, we were in front of the mountain. I managed to scream 'watch out' when I heard the explosion.\"On Wednesday afternoon a Blackhawk helicopter from the Chilean air force spotted the Cessna half buried in the forest, but due to wind, snow and the inaccessability of the site the rescue operation continued throughout Thursday, with the nine passengers and the body of the pilot still unable to be removed.\"There was snow, cold, too much snow and storms,\" said Almonacid. \"We bunched up, that's it. We prayed a lot, because I am a believer in God and another companion as well. I was thinking about how badly they must be suffering because I imagined my funeral and all.\"The survivors and pilot huddled inside the felage, eating crackers and trying to maintain a fire in sub zero temperatures. Pilot Nelson Bahamondes survived the initial impact but slowly bled to death inside the cockpit, finally dying two days after the crash.Bahamondes, an experienced pilot with an estimated 16,000 hours of flying time, provided leadership and guidance throughout the first two days of the ordeal, explaining to the passengers that a radio transmitter would help rescuers locate the craft. As the food ran out, Bahmondes died. \"He had a cut on his head, a big wound and he lost lots of blood,\" said Victor Suazo, a Chilean police officer who was aboard the flight. \"We couldn't do anything for him and he died around noon on Monday.\" Soon after, the survivors' hunger began to deplete their strength and they debated whether to eat the pilot. \"We thought about the pilot, I don't know how to say it ... to feed ourselves from him. We thought about this, but some people were not in agreement because the situation was already so extreme.\"The accident recalled the 1972 plane crash in which a Uruguayan rugby team crashed into Andean snowfields, then ate dead teammates to survive. The book and film Alive were based on their 72-day struggle to survive.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Plane crashes", "Air transport"], "title": "Crash survivors considered eating pilot"},{"date": "2008-05-07T14:26:56Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Around 20 families were today refusing to leave their homes despite an order for all residents near an erupting Chilean volcano to be evacuated.Lava began spewing from the Chait\u00e9n volcano, in southern Chile, yesterday, prompting authorities to demand the immediate evacuation of all those remaining in a nearby town.However, some families were refusing to leave their homes in the town of Chait\u00e9n despite of the order.The eruption has not been reported to have directly caused any deaths or injuries, but a 92-year-old woman died of a heart attack as she was evacuated on Sunday.The volcano, in Patagonia and around 760 miles south of the Chilean capital, Santiago, began erupting on Friday, sending plumes of ash into the sky and covering an area of more than 60 square miles.Chile's government ordered the evacuation of Chait\u00e9n, near the Gulf of Corcovado and six miles from the volcano, and Futaleuf\u00fa, about 37 miles south-west of Chait\u00e9n.Rodrigo Rojas, a national emergency official, said: \"Today the volcano is erupting with pyroplastic material on a different scale. We ... have ordered the immediate precautionary evacuation of all civilians, military and press in Chait\u00e9n.\"The National Emergency Office said the volcano was spitting pieces of lava and rock. \"We hope the evacuation happens in an optimum way,\" Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, said. \"I hope this evolves in the least harmful way possible.\"Luis Lara, a government geologist, said he did not expect a catastrophic collapse of the volcano, but warned that a cloud of dense and very hot material could coat the surrounding land.\"This produces a more complicated scenario,\" he said. \"A dense cloud of pyroplastic material could move down its slopes, and that causes much more damage [than a spray of lava]. \"The entire volcano will not [collapse], but the eruptive column could, and that is sufficient material to be displaced down its sides and into areas nearby. Lava flow would not reach Chait\u00e9n but hot fragments, ash and gas could.\"The contamination of the area is likely to devastate the economy of a region that is mainly agrarian. Around 25,000 cattle and sheep are at imminent risk of dying from eating contaminated plants and drinking water. The Chilean navy has shipped feed to the region, and animals have also been evacuated to uncontaminated areas. Some civil engineers predicted that soil and plant life may not recover for several decades. ''The soil in the area covered by this volume of ash deposits will be practically lost,\" Wilfredo Vera, an engineer from the University of Chile, told a Chilean radio station. \"Agricultural production will be virtually nil.\"Chile has the world's second-most active string of volcanoes, behind Indonesia, but this is the first time the Chait\u00e9n volcano has erupted in at least 2,000 years, according to geologists.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Environment", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Families refuse to flee Chilean volcano eruption"},{"date": "2008-06-23T14:39:06Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The International Whaling Commission's annual conference opened today with a renewed call from conservationists to step up the protection of whales instead of \"managing\" how many are killed every year. The commission's 60th meeting will be held this week in Santiago de Chile. Issues on the table include the future of the IWC, a vote on the creation of a whale sanctuary in the Southern Atlantic and whether a resolution can be agreed opposing the Japanese desire to continue so-called \"scientific\" whaling.More than 20 years after a worldwide ban on commercial whaling came into force, many whale populations, even entire species, face possible extinction. Around 30,000 whales have been killed since 1986, and last year almost 2,000 whales were killed by three countries - Japan, Norway and Iceland. \"Since [the ban] member nations have been locked in unproductive debates about the possible resumption of whaling,\" said Claire Bass, marine mammals programme manager at the World Society for the Protection of Animals. \"WSPA wants to reframe the debate. Rather than 'how many whales can be killed sustainably, the key question must be, 'as whales cannot be killed humanely at sea, should they be hunted at all?\" Greenpeace has called for this year's meeting to further turn the IWC from a body representing the interests of whalers to one that primarily considers the conservation of whales.A spokesperson for the UK's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), which represents the country at the IWC, said: \"The UK strongly supports the worldwide ban on commercial whaling and opposes all forms of whaling, other than some limited subsistence whaling by indigenous people. Whaling is cruel and unnecessary. Whale watching rather than whale killing is a sustainable way to benefit from whales. The UK remains strongly opposed to any attempt to lift or weaken the ban, and in the longer term we want to see it strengthened.\"A statement on the website of Japan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs says that the country \"strongly supports the international protection of endangered whale species such as blue whales\" and denies that its catch of whales has a big impact on populations. It adds that, since 2002, the country has been allowed to catch, for example, 590 minke whales, which have a population of 761,000 in the Antarctic Ocean.On scientific whaling, the Japanese statement says: \"We limit the sample to the lowest possible number, which will still allow the research to derive meaningful scientific results. The research plan and its results are annually reviewed by the IWC scientific committee.\"At the start of the meeting, Chilean president Michelle Bachelet is expected to sign a bill seeking to establish a whale sanctuary in her country's national waters.", "tags": ["Whaling", "Environment", "Conservation", "Endangered species", "Wildlife", "World news", "Chile", "Animals", "Whales", "Cetaceans"], "title": "Sanctuaries on the agenda at whaling conference"},{"date": "2008-05-04T23:08:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Patagonian community of Chait\u00e9n was a ghost town yesterday after a volcano spewed ash following its first eruption in thousands of years, forcing nearly 4,500 people to flee.The snow-capped volcano of Chait\u00e9n erupted on Friday, triggering tremors and sending a cloud of ash two miles into the air. There is no record of the volcano erupting in the past 2,000 years, according to the government mining and geology agency Sernageomin.The Southern Chilean town was deserted, after authorities evacuated residents by boat to Chilo\u00e9 island to the north and Puerto Montt on the mainland. Technicians were dispatched to restore telephone services and electricity to the area, 760 miles south of the capital, Santiago, while experts took water samples. Before they were ferried to safety, some people in the area wore white surgical face masks to avoid inhaling the ash that lay 15cm deep in some areas.The National Emergency Office said volcanic activity continued, with fine ash falling. Visibility remained poor and the smell of sulphur hung heavy in the air.\"The panorama here is pretty complicated,\" said the interior minister, Edmundo Perez Yoma, during a visit to the area. \"We have completed the first phase of the operation, which was the evacuation of practically all of the local population.\"We don't know if this is a situation that will last days, or weeks, or even more.\"Schools were closed on Friday, and hospitals treated people for irritated eyes and breathing difficulties.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Residents flee as Chile volcano erupts"},{"date": "2008-06-18T13:21:19Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We flew across the Chilean Altiplano until, like the world had been bleached, there lay ahead of us nothing but white. We hit the salt flats, riding fast, which felt very wrong, as our senses looked at the big slab of white and told us it had to be slippery, treacherous, no place for a motorcycle. But the tyres bit and gripped as sure as on concrete, and the crust crunched under us. Flamingos looked on. We passed through the Valley of the Moon as the light faded and the sun went through its valedictions, washing the rocks vermilion then gold then ochre. In the distance, a string of cartoon volcanoes, perfect calderas, and beyond, like a chimera, the High Andes, the brilliant white bonnets fading to grey.We rolled into San Pedro de Atacama, kicking up a trail of dust. San Pedro was once a major staging post for the great cattle drives of yore, but is now a staging post on the great gringo trail. It's the Dodge City of one's imagination, a Paramount backlot come to life, albeit with internet cafes and poncho shops. Upon entering a door I was surprised to find that there was actually a restaurant beyond, and not just wooden joists holding up the walls.We ordered some food. Tamales and llama steaks and beer that came in litre bottles. I was loving South America. In the middle of the room was an open fire. Above it a large circular hole in the ceiling, through which we gazed at the stars like diamonds. I asked the waiter what happened when it rained. It doesn't, he said.I spoke to Dave, who was on the trip with his wife, Liz. Dave worked in a Lincolnshire warehouse and had been saving for five years for the trip. It had been a fantastic introduction to riding in South America, he said, what with Globebusters taking care of shipping the bikes and visas, and next time he thinks he might be confident enough to go it alone. Mike, who was retired, had taken a few trips like this and loved the camaraderie and support. Similarly Resh, formerly known as The Raggedy One, who ran a care home for the elderly. Paul, from Coventry, worked for BT. His nickname was Gargoyle, he said. I asked him why and he stuck out his chin and held the pose. He looked a bit like a gargoyle.Most on the trip are Bambis \u2013 Born Again Mid-Life Bikers \u2013 returning to two wheels in middle age when family constraints and budgets allow. Very early the next morning, we headed off to see the El Tatio geysers. They pop their boiling spumes at exactly the moment the sun rises over the mountains, as surely as someone dropping Mentos into Diet Coke bottles, the physics of which was explained by our guide, but which I didn't fully take in owing to the fact that it was minus 50 and my brain had frozen.Then we were off to Argentina. Climbing slowly at first, more llama, then some weird-looking rabbits the size of wallabies, and then some things that looked like alpaca but with a certain skittishness. As if they might jump out in front of you and get you repatriated before you could say vicu\u00f1a. Vicu\u00f1as are not a good thing, as I had learnt on day one. I gave them a wide berth.Still climbing. Then suddenly there was nothing. No scrub, no cactus, no vicu\u00f1as, blessed be to God. Just an endless plain with the High Andes cradling and looming over it, like a proscenium arch. My ears popped. The motorbike's console flashed alarmingly. Minus two. Minus four. Minus six. That's the ground temperature. At 80 mph on a motorcycle it's more like minus 30. I lifted my visor to squeeze my nose. My gloves almost fused to it. I had my heated grips on, but I could have been clutching vials of magma and still I wouldn't have felt them. Still, it could have been worse. At least the asphyxiation-by-helmet I was suffering as we went over the 4,600-metre Paso de Jama took my mind off the cold. To fight off oedemas and to keep myself from slipping into a hypothermic coma, I repeated my mantra: \"This is not a holiday it's an adventure; this is not a holiday\u2026\"The border with Argentina lay somewhere up ahead. I just hoped that they had the space blankets ready.Tomorrow: Into the Valley of the ButterfliesGlobebusters' High Andes trip lasts for five weeks and costs \u00a35,895pp. The price includes all shipping rates and accommodation. The next High Andes trip runs from April 21 to May 25 2010. For details of this and other Globebusters guided expeditions, including their 135-day Alaska to Patagonia trip and North and West Africa, see globebusters.com; 08452 304015", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Road trips", "Adventure travel", "Argentina holidays", "Bolivia holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Great journeys: from Chile to Argentina by bike, part two"},{"date": "2008-05-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "No deal is ever perfect. The deals that were done in Latin America - the price of returning to constitutional rule after the military dictatorships that ravaged the sub-continent in the 70s and 80s - varied in detail but had one thing in common: they sacrificed the claims of justice for the victims in favour of a sometimes queasy political normalisation.But if the politics made sense, the detail did not: tens of thousands of families were left to live with their trauma unresolved, with no answer to anguished questions about the fate of children, parents or friends. They were arrangements designed as political sticking plaster, under which private injuries continued to fester. The arrest this week of 98 of the late General Pinochet's secret service officers is only the latest eruption of uncleansed wounds.The men are charged with the disappearance in 1975 of 119 opponents of the regime, and of having taken part in the so-called Operation Colombo, an attempt to deflect international condemnation of the regime's human rights abuses by portraying the deaths as the result of internal disputes.In Chile, it has been left to the judges to find their way round the obstacles the political settlement placed in the path of the victims' families, and some have responded with more enthusiasm than others. The larger picture of the repression that followed Pinochet's coup in 1973 was painted by the Rettig commission, appointed in 1990 by the then president Patricio Aylwin. Aylwin had been president for a year, but Pinochet remained head of the army and a senator for life, in theory a position that gave him immunity from prosecution. The commission was appointed to establish the truth about the 3,000-plus disappearances that had taken place under the dictatorship - and in some ways it succeeded: thousands of witnesses testified and, in 1991, the commission produced its report.But the compromise - an understanding that the report would not be used as the basis for criminal prosecutions - allowed the perpetrators to remain anonymous. Bizarrely, this defect was to provide the judiciary with its opportunity to circumvent Pinochet's defences.Decree Law 2191, promulgated by Pinochet's regime in 1978, had prevented investigation of human rights crimes committed from the day of the coup, September 11 1973 to March 10 1978. The law, and the continued strength of the armed forces, had its effect until the arrest of Pinochet in London in 1998. When Pinochet was returned to Chile 17 months later, with the judgment of the House of Lords against his claim of sovereign immunity, Chilean justice began to recover its courage. Though the prosecution of Pinochet himself was never concluded, a few judges began to take the victims' cases, accepting the argument that, since the whereabouts of the victims remained unknown, the cases remained open, and were not subject to amnesty. The reluctance of the Chilean security services to produce evidence to the real fate of the victims proved their achilles heel. Now 650 former officers have been prosecuted. Such prosecutions are not universally popular: the crimes are more than 30 years old, and Chile has long since returned to democracy. But democracy is not just a matter of regular elections and a military obedience. For some of Chile's judges, silenced for the years of the dictatorship, there could be no return to normality without justice. The crimes of the dictatorship created many more victims than the 3,000 who were murdered: families were impoverished, young lives ruined through grief and exile and the trauma of living with the daily oppression of memories that could not be shared. For them, each step towards justice matters.isabel.hilton@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Chile", "Augusto Pinochet", "World news"], "title": "Isabel Hilton: Chile will never recover from Pinochet's legacy unless the victims of his regime are given justice"},{"date": "2008-06-20T23:19:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Propagating is probably the last thing on most gardeners' minds right now; many of us are preparing a firework display on our plots with dahlias, cannas and other exotica. Instead of impulse-buying at the garden centre, you can personalise your choice by filling trays and plant pots with seeds and divisions of a multitude of dramatic plants. Being tropical or subtropical, many will put on weight rapidly. Even if they don't make it into this year's chorus line, they can wait in the wings for next year's performance - and by then they may even make top billing.From Chile, Lobelia tupa is a million miles away from our normal tiny blue lobelia experience. It makes a bold, shrub-like plant with thick, grey leaves, red stems and strange, brick-red blooms that look more like Mayan bird masks than flowers.Sticking to the flaming theme, Agastache cana from Mexico (try a selection called 'Firebird') has vivid flowers in lipstick colours and tiny grey leaves that throng its twiggy, 60cm tall bushes and smell like aniseed. Sow the big, striated beans of the castor oil plant, Ricinus communis, now and they should germinate within a fortnight and make chunky little plants to put out in a month's time. With plenty of water and loads of sun, their big, crimson, palmate leaves could be a feature of the autumn border. But beware - this plant is poisonous in all its parts, especially the seeds. Kniphofia is pretty easy to grow from seed, too, and though the results may be unpredictable, that is half the fun.Coloured-leaved lobelia such as 'Tania' and 'Russian Princess' are descended from Lobelia cardinalis and L. x vedrariensis. They have fine seed, but once they have germinated and grown on they can be divided easily into separate rosettes and potted. Once established, they can then be transplanted into beds and borders; keep them to the fore, where their dense, dark foliage makes an arresting feature. You might even get blooms this season - in shades of shocking pink, vibrant vermilion and royal purple, their spires are scintillating but slender, easy to see through and as exciting an introduction to the hot bed as anything you could buy.", "tags": ["Gardens", "Life and style", "Homes", "Gardening advice"], "title": "Carol Klein on growing tropical plants from seed"},{"date": "2008-06-12T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Thursday June 19 2008In the article below we wrongly described the town of La Junta as being in Argentina. The town is in southern Chile, near the Chait\u00e9n volcano. This has been corrected. Survivors of a plane crash in southern Chile who spent five days huddled in a broken fuselage in sub-zero temperatures said yesterday they considered cannibalism during their ordeal, in an echo of an Andean plane crash 36 years ago.The Cessna 208 with nine passengers crashed into a mountainside in Patagonia, near La Junta, on Saturday. Recent volcanic explosions in the region have forced air routes out to sea, taking experienced pilots off their normal course. \"We were flying in very bad conditons. There was rain and sleet. We were only 10 minutes from arriving,\" said Jose Miguel Almonacid, one of the survivors.\"Suddenly, we went into a cloud and when we came out, we were in front of the mountain. I managed to scream 'watch out' when I heard the explosion.\"On Wednesday afternoon a Blackhawk helicopter from the Chilean air force spotted the Cessna half buried in the forest, but due to wind, snow and the inaccessability of the site the rescue operation continued throughout Thursday, with the nine passengers and the body of the pilot still unable to be removed.\"There was snow, cold, too much snow and storms,\" said Almonacid. \"We bunched up, that's it. We prayed a lot, because I am a believer in God and another companion as well. I was thinking about how badly they must be suffering because I imagined my funeral and all.\"The survivors and pilot huddled inside the felage, eating crackers and trying to maintain a fire in sub zero temperatures. Pilot Nelson Bahamondes survived the initial impact but slowly bled to death inside the cockpit, finally dying two days after the crash.Bahamondes, an experienced pilot with an estimated 16,000 hours of flying time, provided leadership and guidance throughout the first two days of the ordeal, explaining to the passengers that a radio transmitter would help rescuers locate the craft. As the food ran out, Bahmondes died. \"He had a cut on his head, a big wound and he lost lots of blood,\" said Victor Suazo, a Chilean police officer who was aboard the flight. \"We couldn't do anything for him and he died around noon on Monday.\" Soon after, the survivors' hunger began to deplete their strength and they debated whether to eat the pilot. \"We thought about the pilot, I don't know how to say it ... to feed ourselves from him. We thought about this, but some people were not in agreement because the situation was already so extreme.\"The accident recalled the 1972 plane crash in which a Uruguayan rugby team crashed into Andean snowfields, then ate dead teammates to survive. The book and film Alive were based on their 72-day struggle to survive.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Plane crashes", "Air transport"], "title": "Crash survivors considered eating pilot"},{"date": "2008-05-07T14:26:56Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Around 20 families were today refusing to leave their homes despite an order for all residents near an erupting Chilean volcano to be evacuated.Lava began spewing from the Chait\u00e9n volcano, in southern Chile, yesterday, prompting authorities to demand the immediate evacuation of all those remaining in a nearby town.However, some families were refusing to leave their homes in the town of Chait\u00e9n despite of the order.The eruption has not been reported to have directly caused any deaths or injuries, but a 92-year-old woman died of a heart attack as she was evacuated on Sunday.The volcano, in Patagonia and around 760 miles south of the Chilean capital, Santiago, began erupting on Friday, sending plumes of ash into the sky and covering an area of more than 60 square miles.Chile's government ordered the evacuation of Chait\u00e9n, near the Gulf of Corcovado and six miles from the volcano, and Futaleuf\u00fa, about 37 miles south-west of Chait\u00e9n.Rodrigo Rojas, a national emergency official, said: \"Today the volcano is erupting with pyroplastic material on a different scale. We ... have ordered the immediate precautionary evacuation of all civilians, military and press in Chait\u00e9n.\"The National Emergency Office said the volcano was spitting pieces of lava and rock. \"We hope the evacuation happens in an optimum way,\" Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, said. \"I hope this evolves in the least harmful way possible.\"Luis Lara, a government geologist, said he did not expect a catastrophic collapse of the volcano, but warned that a cloud of dense and very hot material could coat the surrounding land.\"This produces a more complicated scenario,\" he said. \"A dense cloud of pyroplastic material could move down its slopes, and that causes much more damage [than a spray of lava]. \"The entire volcano will not [collapse], but the eruptive column could, and that is sufficient material to be displaced down its sides and into areas nearby. Lava flow would not reach Chait\u00e9n but hot fragments, ash and gas could.\"The contamination of the area is likely to devastate the economy of a region that is mainly agrarian. Around 25,000 cattle and sheep are at imminent risk of dying from eating contaminated plants and drinking water. The Chilean navy has shipped feed to the region, and animals have also been evacuated to uncontaminated areas. Some civil engineers predicted that soil and plant life may not recover for several decades. ''The soil in the area covered by this volume of ash deposits will be practically lost,\" Wilfredo Vera, an engineer from the University of Chile, told a Chilean radio station. \"Agricultural production will be virtually nil.\"Chile has the world's second-most active string of volcanoes, behind Indonesia, but this is the first time the Chait\u00e9n volcano has erupted in at least 2,000 years, according to geologists.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Environment", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Families refuse to flee Chilean volcano eruption"},{"date": "2008-06-23T14:39:06Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The International Whaling Commission's annual conference opened today with a renewed call from conservationists to step up the protection of whales instead of \"managing\" how many are killed every year. The commission's 60th meeting will be held this week in Santiago de Chile. Issues on the table include the future of the IWC, a vote on the creation of a whale sanctuary in the Southern Atlantic and whether a resolution can be agreed opposing the Japanese desire to continue so-called \"scientific\" whaling.More than 20 years after a worldwide ban on commercial whaling came into force, many whale populations, even entire species, face possible extinction. Around 30,000 whales have been killed since 1986, and last year almost 2,000 whales were killed by three countries - Japan, Norway and Iceland. \"Since [the ban] member nations have been locked in unproductive debates about the possible resumption of whaling,\" said Claire Bass, marine mammals programme manager at the World Society for the Protection of Animals. \"WSPA wants to reframe the debate. Rather than 'how many whales can be killed sustainably, the key question must be, 'as whales cannot be killed humanely at sea, should they be hunted at all?\" Greenpeace has called for this year's meeting to further turn the IWC from a body representing the interests of whalers to one that primarily considers the conservation of whales.A spokesperson for the UK's Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (Defra), which represents the country at the IWC, said: \"The UK strongly supports the worldwide ban on commercial whaling and opposes all forms of whaling, other than some limited subsistence whaling by indigenous people. Whaling is cruel and unnecessary. Whale watching rather than whale killing is a sustainable way to benefit from whales. The UK remains strongly opposed to any attempt to lift or weaken the ban, and in the longer term we want to see it strengthened.\"A statement on the website of Japan's Ministry of Foreign Affairs says that the country \"strongly supports the international protection of endangered whale species such as blue whales\" and denies that its catch of whales has a big impact on populations. It adds that, since 2002, the country has been allowed to catch, for example, 590 minke whales, which have a population of 761,000 in the Antarctic Ocean.On scientific whaling, the Japanese statement says: \"We limit the sample to the lowest possible number, which will still allow the research to derive meaningful scientific results. The research plan and its results are annually reviewed by the IWC scientific committee.\"At the start of the meeting, Chilean president Michelle Bachelet is expected to sign a bill seeking to establish a whale sanctuary in her country's national waters.", "tags": ["Whaling", "Environment", "Conservation", "Endangered species", "Wildlife", "World news", "Chile", "Animals", "Whales", "Cetaceans"], "title": "Sanctuaries on the agenda at whaling conference"},{"date": "2008-05-06T15:30:19Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Hundreds of people were urgently evacuated today from a town close to the Chait\u00e9n volcano in southern Chile after lava and ash began spewing 12 miles into the air.The snow-capped volcano erupted on Friday forcing nearly 4,500 people to flee. Further eruptions have prompted the government to remove the remaining people from the remote Patagonian region.Carmen Fernandez, head of the government's emergency bureau, said the final evacuation of residents in Chaiten, six miles from the volcano, involved 300 people, including police, soldiers, emergency personnel, a few reporters and some residents. The amount of lava emerging from the volcano was \"very small and very thick\", he reported, and as such was moving slowly so it is moving very slowly''.Some residents resisted leaving their homes but officials ordered all be evacuated immediately. \"The situation has changed suddenly,\" Rodrigo Rojas of the national emergency office said.\"Today the volcano is erupting with pyroclastic material on a different scale,\" he added. \"We presume lava is flowing and so have ordered the immediate precautionary evacuation of all civilians, military and press in Chait\u00e9n.\" The volcano, which is around 760 miles south of Santiago, has long been considered inactive. Authorities were shocked when it began spewing ash on Friday \u2014 it's first eruption in thousands of years. President Michelle Bachelet has toured emergency shelters in Futaleufu, the second town to be evacuated, where around 1,000 residents crossed into Argentina. Residents have been urged to protect their eyes and wear masks to avoid inhaling ash which, in some places, has settled more than six inches deep. Around 25,000 cattle are also at risk.According to Sernageomin, a government mining and geology agency, there is no record of the volcano erupting in the last 2,000 years.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Second volcano eruption prompts evacuation from Chilean town"},{"date": "2008-09-15T11:12:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Latin American leaders are to gather in Chile today in an attempt to end a political crisis in Bolivia that has seen more than a dozen people killed.Violent clashes between supporters of Bolivia's president, Evo Morales, and his opponents have led to concern among neighbouring countries. Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, who is the temporary president of the 12-member Union of South American Nations, called the emergency summit late last week.The scale of the protests against Morales's plans to rewrite Bolivia's constitution and redirect gas revenues has forced the president to declare a state of siege in some opposition-led provinces. Bachelet said: \"We can't remain impassive in the face of a situation that worries us all.\"The violence began two weeks ago. The government says at least 30 people have died in protests in the eastern province of Pando, while local officials put the number at 15.All the presidents of the continent's major nations are expected to travel to the summit in Chile today except for Alan Garc\u00eda, the president of Peru. He is understood to be sending his foreign minister and has issued a statement supporting the elected Morales government.Also attending the meeting will be Jos\u00e9 Miguel Insulza, the secretary general of the Organisation of American States.The Brazilian president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, could prove the key mediator. Brazil imports half its natural gas from Bolivia. Lula warned last week that the summit could only be effective if proposals from both the Bolivian government and the opposition were represented.\"If the two sides haven't asked us to meet and we make a decision that neither side will respect, the meeting will end up being useless,\" Lula said.Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, a close Morales ally, hailed the gathering as an \"extraordinary summit\". \"Fascism must be stopped in Bolivia. A tragedy must be avoided,\" he said.Ch\u00e1vez has backed Morales in accusing the US of supporting the anti-government protests in Bolivia. Both presidents expelled US ambassadors last week. Washington responded in kind while calling the allegations baseless.Several other Latin American presidents have defended Morales in the diplomatic spat with America. In a statement published on Sunday in Cuba's communist youth newspaper Juventud Rebelde, Ra\u00fal Castro accused Washington of meddling in Bolivia's internal affairs.", "tags": ["Bolivia", "Chile", "Brazil", "Venezuela", "World news", "Evo Morales", "Americas"], "title": "Bolivia crisis summit for Latin American leaders"},{"date": "2008-09-15T11:12:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Latin American leaders are to gather in Chile today in an attempt to end a political crisis in Bolivia that has seen more than a dozen people killed.Violent clashes between supporters of Bolivia's president, Evo Morales, and his opponents have led to concern among neighbouring countries. Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, who is the temporary president of the 12-member Union of South American Nations, called the emergency summit late last week.The scale of the protests against Morales's plans to rewrite Bolivia's constitution and redirect gas revenues has forced the president to declare a state of siege in some opposition-led provinces. Bachelet said: \"We can't remain impassive in the face of a situation that worries us all.\"The violence began two weeks ago. The government says at least 30 people have died in protests in the eastern province of Pando, while local officials put the number at 15.All the presidents of the continent's major nations are expected to travel to the summit in Chile today except for Alan Garc\u00eda, the president of Peru. He is understood to be sending his foreign minister and has issued a statement supporting the elected Morales government.Also attending the meeting will be Jos\u00e9 Miguel Insulza, the secretary general of the Organisation of American States.The Brazilian president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, could prove the key mediator. Brazil imports half its natural gas from Bolivia. Lula warned last week that the summit could only be effective if proposals from both the Bolivian government and the opposition were represented.\"If the two sides haven't asked us to meet and we make a decision that neither side will respect, the meeting will end up being useless,\" Lula said.Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, a close Morales ally, hailed the gathering as an \"extraordinary summit\". \"Fascism must be stopped in Bolivia. A tragedy must be avoided,\" he said.Ch\u00e1vez has backed Morales in accusing the US of supporting the anti-government protests in Bolivia. Both presidents expelled US ambassadors last week. Washington responded in kind while calling the allegations baseless.Several other Latin American presidents have defended Morales in the diplomatic spat with America. In a statement published on Sunday in Cuba's communist youth newspaper Juventud Rebelde, Ra\u00fal Castro accused Washington of meddling in Bolivia's internal affairs.", "tags": ["Bolivia", "Chile", "Brazil", "Venezuela", "World news", "Evo Morales", "Americas"], "title": "Bolivia crisis summit for Latin American leaders"},{"date": "2008-08-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "'Trust to your feet, Jossy,' yells Guido, as I scrabble for a foothold with my crampons in the hard-packed ice below me. I can't even feel my feet. I can't look down or sideways. I am clinging, frozen, to a near-vertical wall of rutted, windblown ice at 3,000m, in a 40mph wind, on the side of a volcano in Chile. My backpack, with my skis strapped to it, feels like it's pulling me backwards off the mountain. Finally we reach the summit, and peer over the icy lip of the crater, from which sulphurous smoke is billowing. I am choked up and it's not just the smoke. We have just conquered our first volcano, the magnificent Llaima, all 3,125m of it.For a diehard skier, it's an age-old problem: when the snows melt in Europe and North America, where do you go to get your skiing kicks? I'd often wondered about heading south, to Chile, but the resorts there, such as Valle Nevado and Portillo, didn't seem to offer much more than I could find summer-skiing on the glacier in the French resort of Tignes. Then, on a winter ski trip, I bumped into Phil Smith, owner of tour group Snoworks, who told me about the skiing and climbing trip he runs to Chile. The 15-day tour would involve climbing up and skiing down nine of the volcanoes in Chile's southern Lakes District. Something different, something challenging - it sounded too good to miss.So, several months later, I found myself in the town of Temuco, capital of the Araucan\u00eda region, with Phil and four other experienced skiers - all of them men. A local company, Amity Tours, was to look after us for our two weeks: Cristi\u00e0n the owner, Guido our guide, and Milton the driver, who would ferry us and our gear between the hotels and volcanoes, each of which lay roughly three hours' drive apart. It soon became clear that skiing down the volcanoes would be the - relatively - easy part. Ascending them was where the real challenge lay; a mix of ski lifts, climbing, walking and 'skinning' - walking uphill on skis. The first volcano was Antuco, in the Laguna del Laja National Park. It was a far cry from Val d'Is\u00e8re's groomed slopes and armies of piste bashers, but that was exactly what we'd come for. Chile has some of the world's best off-piste skiing, with untracked snowfields as far as the eye can see. The only problem can be the weather: the rain came down so heavily on Antuco that we had to cut the day short and head off to Corralco mountain lodge in the Malalcahuello National Reserve, from where we would attempt the 2,865m Lonquimay volcano. When we arrived the wind had whipped up and Guido told us we wouldn't be able to begin the climb until midday. Frustrating, but it gave us the chance to appreciate the setting: the dramatic sight of Lonquimay, its gleaming white flanks adorned with the extraordinary araucaria (monkey puzzle) trees that are native to the region. Breathtaking.As was the climb, when it finally began. The hotel's tank-like Ecotrack vehicle took us as far as it could - to the bottom of the first chairlift, which was buried in snow. Chile had had record snowfalls, which meant most of the lifts weren't running. This was my first real introduction to skinning; we attached 'skins' to the underside of our skis, synthetic strips whose fibres all go in one direction so the skis will slide forward but not back, and began the hike upwards. It was incredibly tough: my new boots dug into my shins with every step, and I was sweating buckets. Phil told us that we needed to get into a 'plod mentality', but I didn't feel I could realistically go any slower. We climbed for two hours and were still nowhere near the summit. My thoughts were alternating between 'why am I doing this?' and 'God, it's so beautiful up here'. The scenery is incredible - great jagged snowy peaks against a deep blue sky. And even though, by the end of the climb, my legs had turned to jelly, the ski down made it all worth it. The high altitude meant the snow conditions were perfect - soft and powdery over a firm base. Not being an experienced off-piste skier, I got the chance to appreciate the way the sunlight sparkled through the araucaria trees - as I ended up on my back in the snow several times during the descent.Fortunately, although this was an adventure holiday, we were hardly roughing it. Accommodation ranged from simple but comfortable to the seriously luxurious - and all of it came with warm, Chilean hospitality. At the lakeshore Marina del Puy hotel, in Huilo Huilo Biological Reserve, we were royally wined, dined and entertained by a troupe of local dancers brought in specially to welcome us, while at Los Pioneros lodge we each returned from dinner to find a crackling fire had been lit in the small wood-burning stoves in our rooms.Each day brought new adventures. 'This is puma country,' Cristi\u00e0n told us cheerily as we prepared for the climb up Sollipulli in Villarrica National Reserve. 'Never run away. They attack from behind.' Although thrilled to think we might see a puma, I was a little nervous on that 2,282m climb. It was fairly straightforward, but I had developed painful blisters - due in no small part, according to Guido, to my poor sock choice. This time it was the descent that proved trickier: I felt a little like Bridget Jones as I careered out of control through heavy wet snow. Once we were at the bottom, Guido collected water from a mountain stream. 'It tastes like the best wine when you've been climbing,' he said. Oddly, he was right.At El Mocho, in Huilo Huilo, we were glad to get towed up behind a Snowcat almost to the top of the 2,422m peak. The run down was through fabulous powder, and it was all going rather well, I thought, until I hit a massive rut left by the Snowcat tracks. By this time I had started to get the hang of skinning and even though the next peak, Casablanca, was a straight skin all the way up to 1,990m, we made it up and down by lunchtime. I was increasingly determined to make it up Osorno, our last climb - at 2,652m not the highest, but it's near-vertical ice-capped summit made it by far the toughest.'Look at me, smile, and let go of the rope,' yelled Guido, as I hung beneath the icy white summit of Volcano Osorno. I took a deep breath, took my hands off the rope and dug in my crampons. From somewhere below, Cristi\u00e0n was directing me, 'left a bit, no...left, LEFT', as I bounced in and out of huge ice troughs. Although my legs were like lead after the six-and-a-half-hour climb, the ski down - against the electric-pink glow of the sunset - was truly euphoric. I had made it to the top of Osorno, and I arrived at the bottom grinning from ear to ear, to a round of applause from the other guys. My joy was only slightly dampened by the fact they had already drunk all the beer.It was a spectacular end to an unforgettable fortnight. For experienced ski tourers, this would be the trip of a lifetime. For me, a novice, it was an incredible personal achievement. I had learnt to use skins, crampons and ice axes, and how to abseil. I almost mastered kick-turns, and I developed a taste for cake - for breakfast. 'I am NEVER doing this again,' I had shouted at Guido, when we were half-way up Llaima with aching limbs and sore feet. 'I'll see you at the top of Osorno, Jossy,' came his reply. At that moment I was convinced I wouldn't even try that ascent. But I did it. And now I want to do it all over again. Only this time with much better socks.Jossy Smalley travelled to Chile with Snoworks and Amity Tours (snoworks.co.uk; amitytours.cl). For 2008, the two-week itinerary has been modified to include seven, rather than nine, volcanoes: Lonquimay, Sollipulli, Villarrica, Mocho-Choshuenco, Casablanca, Osorno, and one other peak depending on weather conditions. The package costs \u00a33,564, including two days' training, all meals, hotels and ground arrangements, but not international flights. Places on the 29 August to 14 September trip are still available.", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "Why wait for winter?"},{"date": "2008-09-15T11:12:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Latin American leaders are to gather in Chile today in an attempt to end a political crisis in Bolivia that has seen more than a dozen people killed.Violent clashes between supporters of Bolivia's president, Evo Morales, and his opponents have led to concern among neighbouring countries. Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, who is the temporary president of the 12-member Union of South American Nations, called the emergency summit late last week.The scale of the protests against Morales's plans to rewrite Bolivia's constitution and redirect gas revenues has forced the president to declare a state of siege in some opposition-led provinces. Bachelet said: \"We can't remain impassive in the face of a situation that worries us all.\"The violence began two weeks ago. The government says at least 30 people have died in protests in the eastern province of Pando, while local officials put the number at 15.All the presidents of the continent's major nations are expected to travel to the summit in Chile today except for Alan Garc\u00eda, the president of Peru. He is understood to be sending his foreign minister and has issued a statement supporting the elected Morales government.Also attending the meeting will be Jos\u00e9 Miguel Insulza, the secretary general of the Organisation of American States.The Brazilian president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, could prove the key mediator. Brazil imports half its natural gas from Bolivia. Lula warned last week that the summit could only be effective if proposals from both the Bolivian government and the opposition were represented.\"If the two sides haven't asked us to meet and we make a decision that neither side will respect, the meeting will end up being useless,\" Lula said.Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, a close Morales ally, hailed the gathering as an \"extraordinary summit\". \"Fascism must be stopped in Bolivia. A tragedy must be avoided,\" he said.Ch\u00e1vez has backed Morales in accusing the US of supporting the anti-government protests in Bolivia. Both presidents expelled US ambassadors last week. Washington responded in kind while calling the allegations baseless.Several other Latin American presidents have defended Morales in the diplomatic spat with America. In a statement published on Sunday in Cuba's communist youth newspaper Juventud Rebelde, Ra\u00fal Castro accused Washington of meddling in Bolivia's internal affairs.", "tags": ["Bolivia", "Chile", "Brazil", "Venezuela", "World news", "Evo Morales", "Americas"], "title": "Bolivia crisis summit for Latin American leaders"},{"date": "2008-08-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "'Trust to your feet, Jossy,' yells Guido, as I scrabble for a foothold with my crampons in the hard-packed ice below me. I can't even feel my feet. I can't look down or sideways. I am clinging, frozen, to a near-vertical wall of rutted, windblown ice at 3,000m, in a 40mph wind, on the side of a volcano in Chile. My backpack, with my skis strapped to it, feels like it's pulling me backwards off the mountain. Finally we reach the summit, and peer over the icy lip of the crater, from which sulphurous smoke is billowing. I am choked up and it's not just the smoke. We have just conquered our first volcano, the magnificent Llaima, all 3,125m of it.For a diehard skier, it's an age-old problem: when the snows melt in Europe and North America, where do you go to get your skiing kicks? I'd often wondered about heading south, to Chile, but the resorts there, such as Valle Nevado and Portillo, didn't seem to offer much more than I could find summer-skiing on the glacier in the French resort of Tignes. Then, on a winter ski trip, I bumped into Phil Smith, owner of tour group Snoworks, who told me about the skiing and climbing trip he runs to Chile. The 15-day tour would involve climbing up and skiing down nine of the volcanoes in Chile's southern Lakes District. Something different, something challenging - it sounded too good to miss.So, several months later, I found myself in the town of Temuco, capital of the Araucan\u00eda region, with Phil and four other experienced skiers - all of them men. A local company, Amity Tours, was to look after us for our two weeks: Cristi\u00e0n the owner, Guido our guide, and Milton the driver, who would ferry us and our gear between the hotels and volcanoes, each of which lay roughly three hours' drive apart. It soon became clear that skiing down the volcanoes would be the - relatively - easy part. Ascending them was where the real challenge lay; a mix of ski lifts, climbing, walking and 'skinning' - walking uphill on skis. The first volcano was Antuco, in the Laguna del Laja National Park. It was a far cry from Val d'Is\u00e8re's groomed slopes and armies of piste bashers, but that was exactly what we'd come for. Chile has some of the world's best off-piste skiing, with untracked snowfields as far as the eye can see. The only problem can be the weather: the rain came down so heavily on Antuco that we had to cut the day short and head off to Corralco mountain lodge in the Malalcahuello National Reserve, from where we would attempt the 2,865m Lonquimay volcano. When we arrived the wind had whipped up and Guido told us we wouldn't be able to begin the climb until midday. Frustrating, but it gave us the chance to appreciate the setting: the dramatic sight of Lonquimay, its gleaming white flanks adorned with the extraordinary araucaria (monkey puzzle) trees that are native to the region. Breathtaking.As was the climb, when it finally began. The hotel's tank-like Ecotrack vehicle took us as far as it could - to the bottom of the first chairlift, which was buried in snow. Chile had had record snowfalls, which meant most of the lifts weren't running. This was my first real introduction to skinning; we attached 'skins' to the underside of our skis, synthetic strips whose fibres all go in one direction so the skis will slide forward but not back, and began the hike upwards. It was incredibly tough: my new boots dug into my shins with every step, and I was sweating buckets. Phil told us that we needed to get into a 'plod mentality', but I didn't feel I could realistically go any slower. We climbed for two hours and were still nowhere near the summit. My thoughts were alternating between 'why am I doing this?' and 'God, it's so beautiful up here'. The scenery is incredible - great jagged snowy peaks against a deep blue sky. And even though, by the end of the climb, my legs had turned to jelly, the ski down made it all worth it. The high altitude meant the snow conditions were perfect - soft and powdery over a firm base. Not being an experienced off-piste skier, I got the chance to appreciate the way the sunlight sparkled through the araucaria trees - as I ended up on my back in the snow several times during the descent.Fortunately, although this was an adventure holiday, we were hardly roughing it. Accommodation ranged from simple but comfortable to the seriously luxurious - and all of it came with warm, Chilean hospitality. At the lakeshore Marina del Puy hotel, in Huilo Huilo Biological Reserve, we were royally wined, dined and entertained by a troupe of local dancers brought in specially to welcome us, while at Los Pioneros lodge we each returned from dinner to find a crackling fire had been lit in the small wood-burning stoves in our rooms.Each day brought new adventures. 'This is puma country,' Cristi\u00e0n told us cheerily as we prepared for the climb up Sollipulli in Villarrica National Reserve. 'Never run away. They attack from behind.' Although thrilled to think we might see a puma, I was a little nervous on that 2,282m climb. It was fairly straightforward, but I had developed painful blisters - due in no small part, according to Guido, to my poor sock choice. This time it was the descent that proved trickier: I felt a little like Bridget Jones as I careered out of control through heavy wet snow. Once we were at the bottom, Guido collected water from a mountain stream. 'It tastes like the best wine when you've been climbing,' he said. Oddly, he was right.At El Mocho, in Huilo Huilo, we were glad to get towed up behind a Snowcat almost to the top of the 2,422m peak. The run down was through fabulous powder, and it was all going rather well, I thought, until I hit a massive rut left by the Snowcat tracks. By this time I had started to get the hang of skinning and even though the next peak, Casablanca, was a straight skin all the way up to 1,990m, we made it up and down by lunchtime. I was increasingly determined to make it up Osorno, our last climb - at 2,652m not the highest, but it's near-vertical ice-capped summit made it by far the toughest.'Look at me, smile, and let go of the rope,' yelled Guido, as I hung beneath the icy white summit of Volcano Osorno. I took a deep breath, took my hands off the rope and dug in my crampons. From somewhere below, Cristi\u00e0n was directing me, 'left a bit, no...left, LEFT', as I bounced in and out of huge ice troughs. Although my legs were like lead after the six-and-a-half-hour climb, the ski down - against the electric-pink glow of the sunset - was truly euphoric. I had made it to the top of Osorno, and I arrived at the bottom grinning from ear to ear, to a round of applause from the other guys. My joy was only slightly dampened by the fact they had already drunk all the beer.It was a spectacular end to an unforgettable fortnight. For experienced ski tourers, this would be the trip of a lifetime. For me, a novice, it was an incredible personal achievement. I had learnt to use skins, crampons and ice axes, and how to abseil. I almost mastered kick-turns, and I developed a taste for cake - for breakfast. 'I am NEVER doing this again,' I had shouted at Guido, when we were half-way up Llaima with aching limbs and sore feet. 'I'll see you at the top of Osorno, Jossy,' came his reply. At that moment I was convinced I wouldn't even try that ascent. But I did it. And now I want to do it all over again. Only this time with much better socks.Jossy Smalley travelled to Chile with Snoworks and Amity Tours (snoworks.co.uk; amitytours.cl). For 2008, the two-week itinerary has been modified to include seven, rather than nine, volcanoes: Lonquimay, Sollipulli, Villarrica, Mocho-Choshuenco, Casablanca, Osorno, and one other peak depending on weather conditions. The package costs \u00a33,564, including two days' training, all meals, hotels and ground arrangements, but not international flights. Places on the 29 August to 14 September trip are still available.", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "Why wait for winter?"},{"date": "2008-08-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Mark Harrison (Letters, August 28) is disingenuous about the relationship of Milton Friedman to Pinochet's Chile. Neither does he mention the havoc, bloodshed and mass starvation wrought on the people and economies of, among others, Uruguay, Argentina, Russia and Iraq by the Chicago School's symbiotic relationship with sundry dictators and their personal financial gain from those relationships. Nor, of course, does he mention the benefits to US corporate power wrought by the destruction of the public sector in each country the Chicago School meddles with. It is sad to see Warwick University, once the harbinger of some radical thought, now accommodating such \"free\" market orthodoxies without reference to their real-life testing grounds. Naomi Klein's The Shock Doctrine should be required reading for anyone interested in what actually happened.David WaddiloveTeignmouth, Devon", "tags": ["US economy", "Economics", "US news", "World news", "Higher education", "Education", "Chile"], "title": "Letter: Economics of havoc"},{"date": "2008-09-15T11:12:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Latin American leaders are to gather in Chile today in an attempt to end a political crisis in Bolivia that has seen more than a dozen people killed.Violent clashes between supporters of Bolivia's president, Evo Morales, and his opponents have led to concern among neighbouring countries. Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, who is the temporary president of the 12-member Union of South American Nations, called the emergency summit late last week.The scale of the protests against Morales's plans to rewrite Bolivia's constitution and redirect gas revenues has forced the president to declare a state of siege in some opposition-led provinces. Bachelet said: \"We can't remain impassive in the face of a situation that worries us all.\"The violence began two weeks ago. The government says at least 30 people have died in protests in the eastern province of Pando, while local officials put the number at 15.All the presidents of the continent's major nations are expected to travel to the summit in Chile today except for Alan Garc\u00eda, the president of Peru. He is understood to be sending his foreign minister and has issued a statement supporting the elected Morales government.Also attending the meeting will be Jos\u00e9 Miguel Insulza, the secretary general of the Organisation of American States.The Brazilian president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, could prove the key mediator. Brazil imports half its natural gas from Bolivia. Lula warned last week that the summit could only be effective if proposals from both the Bolivian government and the opposition were represented.\"If the two sides haven't asked us to meet and we make a decision that neither side will respect, the meeting will end up being useless,\" Lula said.Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, a close Morales ally, hailed the gathering as an \"extraordinary summit\". \"Fascism must be stopped in Bolivia. A tragedy must be avoided,\" he said.Ch\u00e1vez has backed Morales in accusing the US of supporting the anti-government protests in Bolivia. Both presidents expelled US ambassadors last week. Washington responded in kind while calling the allegations baseless.Several other Latin American presidents have defended Morales in the diplomatic spat with America. In a statement published on Sunday in Cuba's communist youth newspaper Juventud Rebelde, Ra\u00fal Castro accused Washington of meddling in Bolivia's internal affairs.", "tags": ["Bolivia", "Chile", "Brazil", "Venezuela", "World news", "Evo Morales", "Americas"], "title": "Bolivia crisis summit for Latin American leaders"},{"date": "2008-08-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "'Trust to your feet, Jossy,' yells Guido, as I scrabble for a foothold with my crampons in the hard-packed ice below me. I can't even feel my feet. I can't look down or sideways. I am clinging, frozen, to a near-vertical wall of rutted, windblown ice at 3,000m, in a 40mph wind, on the side of a volcano in Chile. My backpack, with my skis strapped to it, feels like it's pulling me backwards off the mountain. Finally we reach the summit, and peer over the icy lip of the crater, from which sulphurous smoke is billowing. I am choked up and it's not just the smoke. We have just conquered our first volcano, the magnificent Llaima, all 3,125m of it.For a diehard skier, it's an age-old problem: when the snows melt in Europe and North America, where do you go to get your skiing kicks? I'd often wondered about heading south, to Chile, but the resorts there, such as Valle Nevado and Portillo, didn't seem to offer much more than I could find summer-skiing on the glacier in the French resort of Tignes. Then, on a winter ski trip, I bumped into Phil Smith, owner of tour group Snoworks, who told me about the skiing and climbing trip he runs to Chile. The 15-day tour would involve climbing up and skiing down nine of the volcanoes in Chile's southern Lakes District. Something different, something challenging - it sounded too good to miss.So, several months later, I found myself in the town of Temuco, capital of the Araucan\u00eda region, with Phil and four other experienced skiers - all of them men. A local company, Amity Tours, was to look after us for our two weeks: Cristi\u00e0n the owner, Guido our guide, and Milton the driver, who would ferry us and our gear between the hotels and volcanoes, each of which lay roughly three hours' drive apart. It soon became clear that skiing down the volcanoes would be the - relatively - easy part. Ascending them was where the real challenge lay; a mix of ski lifts, climbing, walking and 'skinning' - walking uphill on skis. The first volcano was Antuco, in the Laguna del Laja National Park. It was a far cry from Val d'Is\u00e8re's groomed slopes and armies of piste bashers, but that was exactly what we'd come for. Chile has some of the world's best off-piste skiing, with untracked snowfields as far as the eye can see. The only problem can be the weather: the rain came down so heavily on Antuco that we had to cut the day short and head off to Corralco mountain lodge in the Malalcahuello National Reserve, from where we would attempt the 2,865m Lonquimay volcano. When we arrived the wind had whipped up and Guido told us we wouldn't be able to begin the climb until midday. Frustrating, but it gave us the chance to appreciate the setting: the dramatic sight of Lonquimay, its gleaming white flanks adorned with the extraordinary araucaria (monkey puzzle) trees that are native to the region. Breathtaking.As was the climb, when it finally began. The hotel's tank-like Ecotrack vehicle took us as far as it could - to the bottom of the first chairlift, which was buried in snow. Chile had had record snowfalls, which meant most of the lifts weren't running. This was my first real introduction to skinning; we attached 'skins' to the underside of our skis, synthetic strips whose fibres all go in one direction so the skis will slide forward but not back, and began the hike upwards. It was incredibly tough: my new boots dug into my shins with every step, and I was sweating buckets. Phil told us that we needed to get into a 'plod mentality', but I didn't feel I could realistically go any slower. We climbed for two hours and were still nowhere near the summit. My thoughts were alternating between 'why am I doing this?' and 'God, it's so beautiful up here'. The scenery is incredible - great jagged snowy peaks against a deep blue sky. And even though, by the end of the climb, my legs had turned to jelly, the ski down made it all worth it. The high altitude meant the snow conditions were perfect - soft and powdery over a firm base. Not being an experienced off-piste skier, I got the chance to appreciate the way the sunlight sparkled through the araucaria trees - as I ended up on my back in the snow several times during the descent.Fortunately, although this was an adventure holiday, we were hardly roughing it. Accommodation ranged from simple but comfortable to the seriously luxurious - and all of it came with warm, Chilean hospitality. At the lakeshore Marina del Puy hotel, in Huilo Huilo Biological Reserve, we were royally wined, dined and entertained by a troupe of local dancers brought in specially to welcome us, while at Los Pioneros lodge we each returned from dinner to find a crackling fire had been lit in the small wood-burning stoves in our rooms.Each day brought new adventures. 'This is puma country,' Cristi\u00e0n told us cheerily as we prepared for the climb up Sollipulli in Villarrica National Reserve. 'Never run away. They attack from behind.' Although thrilled to think we might see a puma, I was a little nervous on that 2,282m climb. It was fairly straightforward, but I had developed painful blisters - due in no small part, according to Guido, to my poor sock choice. This time it was the descent that proved trickier: I felt a little like Bridget Jones as I careered out of control through heavy wet snow. Once we were at the bottom, Guido collected water from a mountain stream. 'It tastes like the best wine when you've been climbing,' he said. Oddly, he was right.At El Mocho, in Huilo Huilo, we were glad to get towed up behind a Snowcat almost to the top of the 2,422m peak. The run down was through fabulous powder, and it was all going rather well, I thought, until I hit a massive rut left by the Snowcat tracks. By this time I had started to get the hang of skinning and even though the next peak, Casablanca, was a straight skin all the way up to 1,990m, we made it up and down by lunchtime. I was increasingly determined to make it up Osorno, our last climb - at 2,652m not the highest, but it's near-vertical ice-capped summit made it by far the toughest.'Look at me, smile, and let go of the rope,' yelled Guido, as I hung beneath the icy white summit of Volcano Osorno. I took a deep breath, took my hands off the rope and dug in my crampons. From somewhere below, Cristi\u00e0n was directing me, 'left a bit, no...left, LEFT', as I bounced in and out of huge ice troughs. Although my legs were like lead after the six-and-a-half-hour climb, the ski down - against the electric-pink glow of the sunset - was truly euphoric. I had made it to the top of Osorno, and I arrived at the bottom grinning from ear to ear, to a round of applause from the other guys. My joy was only slightly dampened by the fact they had already drunk all the beer.It was a spectacular end to an unforgettable fortnight. For experienced ski tourers, this would be the trip of a lifetime. For me, a novice, it was an incredible personal achievement. I had learnt to use skins, crampons and ice axes, and how to abseil. I almost mastered kick-turns, and I developed a taste for cake - for breakfast. 'I am NEVER doing this again,' I had shouted at Guido, when we were half-way up Llaima with aching limbs and sore feet. 'I'll see you at the top of Osorno, Jossy,' came his reply. At that moment I was convinced I wouldn't even try that ascent. But I did it. And now I want to do it all over again. Only this time with much better socks.Jossy Smalley travelled to Chile with Snoworks and Amity Tours (snoworks.co.uk; amitytours.cl). For 2008, the two-week itinerary has been modified to include seven, rather than nine, volcanoes: Lonquimay, Sollipulli, Villarrica, Mocho-Choshuenco, Casablanca, Osorno, and one other peak depending on weather conditions. The package costs \u00a33,564, including two days' training, all meals, hotels and ground arrangements, but not international flights. Places on the 29 August to 14 September trip are still available.", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "Why wait for winter?"},{"date": "2008-08-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Mark Harrison (Letters, August 28) is disingenuous about the relationship of Milton Friedman to Pinochet's Chile. Neither does he mention the havoc, bloodshed and mass starvation wrought on the people and economies of, among others, Uruguay, Argentina, Russia and Iraq by the Chicago School's symbiotic relationship with sundry dictators and their personal financial gain from those relationships. Nor, of course, does he mention the benefits to US corporate power wrought by the destruction of the public sector in each country the Chicago School meddles with. It is sad to see Warwick University, once the harbinger of some radical thought, now accommodating such \"free\" market orthodoxies without reference to their real-life testing grounds. Naomi Klein's The Shock Doctrine should be required reading for anyone interested in what actually happened.David WaddiloveTeignmouth, Devon", "tags": ["US economy", "Economics", "US news", "World news", "Higher education", "Education", "Chile"], "title": "Letter: Economics of havoc"},{"date": "2008-07-09T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A human rights group says it has strong evidence that a former SS member known as Dr Death is in Chile or Argentina. Efraim Zuroff, director of the Simon Wiesenthal Centre, flew from Israel to Chile yesterday to search for Aribert Heim, who would be 94. His daughter has lived in Chile for years. It is believed he is alive because $1.6m (\u00a3800,000) and other investments in Heim's name in Berlin have not been claimed by his children as they would have to produce proof that their father was dead. Heim was indicted on charges of murdering hundreds at Mauthausen, where he was camp doctor. Associated Press in SantiagoPolice searching for chemicals used to make the date-rape drug GHB raided 600 homes and offices in Austria, Switzerland and Germany yesterday, investigators said. The raids followed months of investigation after police became suspicious of online orders for GBL, a chemical found in industrial cleaners that can be used to manufacture GHB, a potent depressant. Investigators said the GBL orders were placed to a number of chemical companies in Germany. Police in Austria and Switzerland said that they found some possible drug laboratories during their house searches. Associated Press in Berlin", "tags": ["World news"], "title": "World news in brief"},{"date": "2008-09-15T11:12:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Latin American leaders are to gather in Chile today in an attempt to end a political crisis in Bolivia that has seen more than a dozen people killed.Violent clashes between supporters of Bolivia's president, Evo Morales, and his opponents have led to concern among neighbouring countries. Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, who is the temporary president of the 12-member Union of South American Nations, called the emergency summit late last week.The scale of the protests against Morales's plans to rewrite Bolivia's constitution and redirect gas revenues has forced the president to declare a state of siege in some opposition-led provinces. Bachelet said: \"We can't remain impassive in the face of a situation that worries us all.\"The violence began two weeks ago. The government says at least 30 people have died in protests in the eastern province of Pando, while local officials put the number at 15.All the presidents of the continent's major nations are expected to travel to the summit in Chile today except for Alan Garc\u00eda, the president of Peru. He is understood to be sending his foreign minister and has issued a statement supporting the elected Morales government.Also attending the meeting will be Jos\u00e9 Miguel Insulza, the secretary general of the Organisation of American States.The Brazilian president, Luiz In\u00e1cio Lula da Silva, could prove the key mediator. Brazil imports half its natural gas from Bolivia. Lula warned last week that the summit could only be effective if proposals from both the Bolivian government and the opposition were represented.\"If the two sides haven't asked us to meet and we make a decision that neither side will respect, the meeting will end up being useless,\" Lula said.Venezuela's president, Hugo Ch\u00e1vez, a close Morales ally, hailed the gathering as an \"extraordinary summit\". \"Fascism must be stopped in Bolivia. A tragedy must be avoided,\" he said.Ch\u00e1vez has backed Morales in accusing the US of supporting the anti-government protests in Bolivia. Both presidents expelled US ambassadors last week. Washington responded in kind while calling the allegations baseless.Several other Latin American presidents have defended Morales in the diplomatic spat with America. In a statement published on Sunday in Cuba's communist youth newspaper Juventud Rebelde, Ra\u00fal Castro accused Washington of meddling in Bolivia's internal affairs.", "tags": ["Bolivia", "Chile", "Brazil", "Venezuela", "World news", "Evo Morales", "Americas"], "title": "Bolivia crisis summit for Latin American leaders"},{"date": "2008-08-16T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "'Trust to your feet, Jossy,' yells Guido, as I scrabble for a foothold with my crampons in the hard-packed ice below me. I can't even feel my feet. I can't look down or sideways. I am clinging, frozen, to a near-vertical wall of rutted, windblown ice at 3,000m, in a 40mph wind, on the side of a volcano in Chile. My backpack, with my skis strapped to it, feels like it's pulling me backwards off the mountain. Finally we reach the summit, and peer over the icy lip of the crater, from which sulphurous smoke is billowing. I am choked up and it's not just the smoke. We have just conquered our first volcano, the magnificent Llaima, all 3,125m of it.For a diehard skier, it's an age-old problem: when the snows melt in Europe and North America, where do you go to get your skiing kicks? I'd often wondered about heading south, to Chile, but the resorts there, such as Valle Nevado and Portillo, didn't seem to offer much more than I could find summer-skiing on the glacier in the French resort of Tignes. Then, on a winter ski trip, I bumped into Phil Smith, owner of tour group Snoworks, who told me about the skiing and climbing trip he runs to Chile. The 15-day tour would involve climbing up and skiing down nine of the volcanoes in Chile's southern Lakes District. Something different, something challenging - it sounded too good to miss.So, several months later, I found myself in the town of Temuco, capital of the Araucan\u00eda region, with Phil and four other experienced skiers - all of them men. A local company, Amity Tours, was to look after us for our two weeks: Cristi\u00e0n the owner, Guido our guide, and Milton the driver, who would ferry us and our gear between the hotels and volcanoes, each of which lay roughly three hours' drive apart. It soon became clear that skiing down the volcanoes would be the - relatively - easy part. Ascending them was where the real challenge lay; a mix of ski lifts, climbing, walking and 'skinning' - walking uphill on skis. The first volcano was Antuco, in the Laguna del Laja National Park. It was a far cry from Val d'Is\u00e8re's groomed slopes and armies of piste bashers, but that was exactly what we'd come for. Chile has some of the world's best off-piste skiing, with untracked snowfields as far as the eye can see. The only problem can be the weather: the rain came down so heavily on Antuco that we had to cut the day short and head off to Corralco mountain lodge in the Malalcahuello National Reserve, from where we would attempt the 2,865m Lonquimay volcano. When we arrived the wind had whipped up and Guido told us we wouldn't be able to begin the climb until midday. Frustrating, but it gave us the chance to appreciate the setting: the dramatic sight of Lonquimay, its gleaming white flanks adorned with the extraordinary araucaria (monkey puzzle) trees that are native to the region. Breathtaking.As was the climb, when it finally began. The hotel's tank-like Ecotrack vehicle took us as far as it could - to the bottom of the first chairlift, which was buried in snow. Chile had had record snowfalls, which meant most of the lifts weren't running. This was my first real introduction to skinning; we attached 'skins' to the underside of our skis, synthetic strips whose fibres all go in one direction so the skis will slide forward but not back, and began the hike upwards. It was incredibly tough: my new boots dug into my shins with every step, and I was sweating buckets. Phil told us that we needed to get into a 'plod mentality', but I didn't feel I could realistically go any slower. We climbed for two hours and were still nowhere near the summit. My thoughts were alternating between 'why am I doing this?' and 'God, it's so beautiful up here'. The scenery is incredible - great jagged snowy peaks against a deep blue sky. And even though, by the end of the climb, my legs had turned to jelly, the ski down made it all worth it. The high altitude meant the snow conditions were perfect - soft and powdery over a firm base. Not being an experienced off-piste skier, I got the chance to appreciate the way the sunlight sparkled through the araucaria trees - as I ended up on my back in the snow several times during the descent.Fortunately, although this was an adventure holiday, we were hardly roughing it. Accommodation ranged from simple but comfortable to the seriously luxurious - and all of it came with warm, Chilean hospitality. At the lakeshore Marina del Puy hotel, in Huilo Huilo Biological Reserve, we were royally wined, dined and entertained by a troupe of local dancers brought in specially to welcome us, while at Los Pioneros lodge we each returned from dinner to find a crackling fire had been lit in the small wood-burning stoves in our rooms.Each day brought new adventures. 'This is puma country,' Cristi\u00e0n told us cheerily as we prepared for the climb up Sollipulli in Villarrica National Reserve. 'Never run away. They attack from behind.' Although thrilled to think we might see a puma, I was a little nervous on that 2,282m climb. It was fairly straightforward, but I had developed painful blisters - due in no small part, according to Guido, to my poor sock choice. This time it was the descent that proved trickier: I felt a little like Bridget Jones as I careered out of control through heavy wet snow. Once we were at the bottom, Guido collected water from a mountain stream. 'It tastes like the best wine when you've been climbing,' he said. Oddly, he was right.At El Mocho, in Huilo Huilo, we were glad to get towed up behind a Snowcat almost to the top of the 2,422m peak. The run down was through fabulous powder, and it was all going rather well, I thought, until I hit a massive rut left by the Snowcat tracks. By this time I had started to get the hang of skinning and even though the next peak, Casablanca, was a straight skin all the way up to 1,990m, we made it up and down by lunchtime. I was increasingly determined to make it up Osorno, our last climb - at 2,652m not the highest, but it's near-vertical ice-capped summit made it by far the toughest.'Look at me, smile, and let go of the rope,' yelled Guido, as I hung beneath the icy white summit of Volcano Osorno. I took a deep breath, took my hands off the rope and dug in my crampons. From somewhere below, Cristi\u00e0n was directing me, 'left a bit, no...left, LEFT', as I bounced in and out of huge ice troughs. Although my legs were like lead after the six-and-a-half-hour climb, the ski down - against the electric-pink glow of the sunset - was truly euphoric. I had made it to the top of Osorno, and I arrived at the bottom grinning from ear to ear, to a round of applause from the other guys. My joy was only slightly dampened by the fact they had already drunk all the beer.It was a spectacular end to an unforgettable fortnight. For experienced ski tourers, this would be the trip of a lifetime. For me, a novice, it was an incredible personal achievement. I had learnt to use skins, crampons and ice axes, and how to abseil. I almost mastered kick-turns, and I developed a taste for cake - for breakfast. 'I am NEVER doing this again,' I had shouted at Guido, when we were half-way up Llaima with aching limbs and sore feet. 'I'll see you at the top of Osorno, Jossy,' came his reply. At that moment I was convinced I wouldn't even try that ascent. But I did it. And now I want to do it all over again. Only this time with much better socks.Jossy Smalley travelled to Chile with Snoworks and Amity Tours (snoworks.co.uk; amitytours.cl). For 2008, the two-week itinerary has been modified to include seven, rather than nine, volcanoes: Lonquimay, Sollipulli, Villarrica, Mocho-Choshuenco, Casablanca, Osorno, and one other peak depending on weather conditions. The package costs \u00a33,564, including two days' training, all meals, hotels and ground arrangements, but not international flights. Places on the 29 August to 14 September trip are still available.", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "Why wait for winter?"},{"date": "2008-08-29T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Mark Harrison (Letters, August 28) is disingenuous about the relationship of Milton Friedman to Pinochet's Chile. Neither does he mention the havoc, bloodshed and mass starvation wrought on the people and economies of, among others, Uruguay, Argentina, Russia and Iraq by the Chicago School's symbiotic relationship with sundry dictators and their personal financial gain from those relationships. Nor, of course, does he mention the benefits to US corporate power wrought by the destruction of the public sector in each country the Chicago School meddles with. It is sad to see Warwick University, once the harbinger of some radical thought, now accommodating such \"free\" market orthodoxies without reference to their real-life testing grounds. Naomi Klein's The Shock Doctrine should be required reading for anyone interested in what actually happened.David WaddiloveTeignmouth, Devon", "tags": ["US economy", "Economics", "US news", "World news", "Higher education", "Education", "Chile"], "title": "Letter: Economics of havoc"},{"date": "2008-07-09T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A human rights group says it has strong evidence that a former SS member known as Dr Death is in Chile or Argentina. Efraim Zuroff, director of the Simon Wiesenthal Centre, flew from Israel to Chile yesterday to search for Aribert Heim, who would be 94. His daughter has lived in Chile for years. It is believed he is alive because $1.6m (\u00a3800,000) and other investments in Heim's name in Berlin have not been claimed by his children as they would have to produce proof that their father was dead. Heim was indicted on charges of murdering hundreds at Mauthausen, where he was camp doctor. Associated Press in SantiagoPolice searching for chemicals used to make the date-rape drug GHB raided 600 homes and offices in Austria, Switzerland and Germany yesterday, investigators said. The raids followed months of investigation after police became suspicious of online orders for GBL, a chemical found in industrial cleaners that can be used to manufacture GHB, a potent depressant. Investigators said the GBL orders were placed to a number of chemical companies in Germany. Police in Austria and Switzerland said that they found some possible drug laboratories during their house searches. Associated Press in Berlin", "tags": ["World news"], "title": "World news in brief"},{"date": "2008-09-12T15:33:02Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A slight clarification to my 9-11 post of yesterday. I wrote in too much of a hurry. Obviously I'm well familiar with the Allende/Pinochet story. What I meant to write was that I hadn't quite grasped that the coup took place on 9-11; or more precisely, that back when I was learning about the coup, it was long before 2001, so the date had no special significance for me. It was only when visiting Chile and reading again about the coup that I thought, ah, 9-11, interesting.Note to Brooklynesque: Why don't you go see a shrink to discuss why you spend so much time reading the work of someone you so obviously loathe? Life's too short.", "tags": ["Chile", "September 11 2001"], "title": "Michael Tomasky: More on Allende"},{"date": "2008-12-08T00:12:57Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Italy (M&S, \u00a35.99, down from \u00a37.99) Bubbles are a \ufb01ne way to begin on Christmas day and these, from north-east Italy, are pink. Tinged with the suggestion of sugared raspberries and strawberries, they slip down very easily.Bio Bio Valley, Chile (Majestic, \u00a35.99, down from \u00a37.49 when you buy two Chilean wines) On the other hand, the cool, mineralic swoosh of this riesling, glittering with sharp citrus \ufb02avours, from one of the much talked-about cooler climate areas in Chile, would make a lively aperitif and be a good match for canapes. Vin de Pays d'Oc, France (Waitrose, \u00a34.39, down from \u00a35.49) This creamy-textured wine is a good option if you're going to drink white with Christmas dinner because the richness the viognier brings works well with the fruity accompaniments, from the cranberries to the dried fruit in the stuffing.France (Asda, \u00a34.08) Light red wines are good with a traditional Christmas spread. The brightness of the redberry \ufb02avours acts like a chutney against the turkey and isn't wrong-footed by sharply astringent cranberry sauce. France (M&S, \u00a35.99) Soft, smooth and unoaked, but \ufb01lled with dark fruit \ufb02avours, this wine, made from the fruit of old vines, is good with turkey and trimmings. It has intensity and juiciness but isn't heavy or dry with tannins that might only emphasise any dryness in the meat. France (\u00a33.99 for 37.5cl, Sainsbury's) Dessert wines don't need to be as expensive as Sauternes: this one, with a gentle apricot taste and honeyed sweetness, is a bargain, and not so unctuous that you'll need a crane to lift you from the table after drinking it with Christmas pudding.", "tags": ["Christmas", "Saving money", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Money"], "title": "Victoria Moore's tips for wine under \u00a36 a bottle"},{"date": "2008-12-08T00:12:57Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Italy (M&S, \u00a35.99, down from \u00a37.99) Bubbles are a \ufb01ne way to begin on Christmas day and these, from north-east Italy, are pink. Tinged with the suggestion of sugared raspberries and strawberries, they slip down very easily.Bio Bio Valley, Chile (Majestic, \u00a35.99, down from \u00a37.49 when you buy two Chilean wines) On the other hand, the cool, mineralic swoosh of this riesling, glittering with sharp citrus \ufb02avours, from one of the much talked-about cooler climate areas in Chile, would make a lively aperitif and be a good match for canapes. Vin de Pays d'Oc, France (Waitrose, \u00a34.39, down from \u00a35.49) This creamy-textured wine is a good option if you're going to drink white with Christmas dinner because the richness the viognier brings works well with the fruity accompaniments, from the cranberries to the dried fruit in the stuffing.France (Asda, \u00a34.08) Light red wines are good with a traditional Christmas spread. The brightness of the redberry \ufb02avours acts like a chutney against the turkey and isn't wrong-footed by sharply astringent cranberry sauce. France (M&S, \u00a35.99) Soft, smooth and unoaked, but \ufb01lled with dark fruit \ufb02avours, this wine, made from the fruit of old vines, is good with turkey and trimmings. It has intensity and juiciness but isn't heavy or dry with tannins that might only emphasise any dryness in the meat. France (\u00a33.99 for 37.5cl, Sainsbury's) Dessert wines don't need to be as expensive as Sauternes: this one, with a gentle apricot taste and honeyed sweetness, is a bargain, and not so unctuous that you'll need a crane to lift you from the table after drinking it with Christmas pudding.", "tags": ["Christmas", "Saving money", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Money"], "title": "Victoria Moore's tips for wine under \u00a36 a bottle"},{"date": "2008-12-11T09:56:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Madonna \"provokes a crazy enthusiasm,\" a prominent Chilean priest said yesterday \u2013 and not in a good way.Jorge Medina Estevez, a retired cardinal and apparent amateur pop critic, began his homily in lofty praise of General Augusto Pinochet, the late dictator responsible for more than 3,000 politically motivated killings and disappearances. He then shifted into a diatribe against sinful Madonna, who sings songs about boys, girls and sweets.\"This woman comes here,\" Medina said, \"and in an incredibly shameless manner she provokes a crazy enthusiasm, an enthusiasm of lust, lustful thoughts, impure thoughts.\" Medina is one of Chile's most prominent clergymen, and as cardinal protodeacon was the man who announced to the world the selection of Benedict XVI as pontiff. He is known for his conservative views, but less so for his album reviews.As per official doctrine, Medina stepped down as a cardinal following his 80th birthday.Madonna is in Santiago for two concerts at the Estadio Nacional. Devotees camped out for more than three days in order to secure good spots at the gig, which is expected to attract more than 60,000 crazy, lusty, impure and enthusiastic fans. There is no word whether anyone camped out to hear Jorge Medina Estevez at mass, nor whether any fellow Pinochet nuts were batting eyelashes at the cleric.", "tags": ["Madonna", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Madonna gets a bad review from Chilean cardinal"},{"date": "2008-12-08T00:12:57Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Italy (M&S, \u00a35.99, down from \u00a37.99) Bubbles are a \ufb01ne way to begin on Christmas day and these, from north-east Italy, are pink. Tinged with the suggestion of sugared raspberries and strawberries, they slip down very easily.Bio Bio Valley, Chile (Majestic, \u00a35.99, down from \u00a37.49 when you buy two Chilean wines) On the other hand, the cool, mineralic swoosh of this riesling, glittering with sharp citrus \ufb02avours, from one of the much talked-about cooler climate areas in Chile, would make a lively aperitif and be a good match for canapes. Vin de Pays d'Oc, France (Waitrose, \u00a34.39, down from \u00a35.49) This creamy-textured wine is a good option if you're going to drink white with Christmas dinner because the richness the viognier brings works well with the fruity accompaniments, from the cranberries to the dried fruit in the stuffing.France (Asda, \u00a34.08) Light red wines are good with a traditional Christmas spread. The brightness of the redberry \ufb02avours acts like a chutney against the turkey and isn't wrong-footed by sharply astringent cranberry sauce. France (M&S, \u00a35.99) Soft, smooth and unoaked, but \ufb01lled with dark fruit \ufb02avours, this wine, made from the fruit of old vines, is good with turkey and trimmings. It has intensity and juiciness but isn't heavy or dry with tannins that might only emphasise any dryness in the meat. France (\u00a33.99 for 37.5cl, Sainsbury's) Dessert wines don't need to be as expensive as Sauternes: this one, with a gentle apricot taste and honeyed sweetness, is a bargain, and not so unctuous that you'll need a crane to lift you from the table after drinking it with Christmas pudding.", "tags": ["Christmas", "Saving money", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Money"], "title": "Victoria Moore's tips for wine under \u00a36 a bottle"},{"date": "2008-12-11T09:56:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Madonna \"provokes a crazy enthusiasm,\" a prominent Chilean priest said yesterday \u2013 and not in a good way.Jorge Medina Estevez, a retired cardinal and apparent amateur pop critic, began his homily in lofty praise of General Augusto Pinochet, the late dictator responsible for more than 3,000 politically motivated killings and disappearances. He then shifted into a diatribe against sinful Madonna, who sings songs about boys, girls and sweets.\"This woman comes here,\" Medina said, \"and in an incredibly shameless manner she provokes a crazy enthusiasm, an enthusiasm of lust, lustful thoughts, impure thoughts.\" Medina is one of Chile's most prominent clergymen, and as cardinal protodeacon was the man who announced to the world the selection of Benedict XVI as pontiff. He is known for his conservative views, but less so for his album reviews.As per official doctrine, Medina stepped down as a cardinal following his 80th birthday.Madonna is in Santiago for two concerts at the Estadio Nacional. Devotees camped out for more than three days in order to secure good spots at the gig, which is expected to attract more than 60,000 crazy, lusty, impure and enthusiastic fans. There is no word whether anyone camped out to hear Jorge Medina Estevez at mass, nor whether any fellow Pinochet nuts were batting eyelashes at the cleric.", "tags": ["Madonna", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Madonna gets a bad review from Chilean cardinal"},{"date": "2008-11-11T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Champagne sales have fizzled out at Majestic Wine, leading to a 25% drop in its half-year profits. Sales of bubbly, which makes up nearly a fifth of the company's UK business, were down 6.4% in the first half compared with the same period last year, mainly owing to business customers cutting back.Steve Lewis, Majestic's chief executive, said businesses had cut back after the price of champagne went up 15% due to April's increase in duty and the strong euro. \"Champagne sales have fallen as prices have gone up - and people have nothing much to celebrate,\" he said. In response, Majestic has expanded its top range of sparkling wine, costing between \u00a310 and \u00a312, and is running champagne promotions ahead of Christmas.Like-for-like sales in the UK fell 2.1% in the six months to September 29, but the firm insisted it maintained its 3% share of the UK wine market. Sales of fine wine continue to rise, with wines from Argentina, Chile and New Zealand showing strong growth. Half-year profits before tax fell to \u00a35.6m from \u00a37.5m, though total sales were up by 3.4% to \u00a394.1m. The firm has reported growth in annual profits and sales every year since 1992. The average bottle of wine at Majestic now costs \u00a36.19, up from \u00a35.85 last year.", "tags": ["Food & drink industry", "Retail industry", "Business", "Majestic Wine"], "title": "Majestic suffers as firms cut the champagne bill"},{"date": "2008-12-08T00:12:57Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Italy (M&S, \u00a35.99, down from \u00a37.99) Bubbles are a \ufb01ne way to begin on Christmas day and these, from north-east Italy, are pink. Tinged with the suggestion of sugared raspberries and strawberries, they slip down very easily.Bio Bio Valley, Chile (Majestic, \u00a35.99, down from \u00a37.49 when you buy two Chilean wines) On the other hand, the cool, mineralic swoosh of this riesling, glittering with sharp citrus \ufb02avours, from one of the much talked-about cooler climate areas in Chile, would make a lively aperitif and be a good match for canapes. Vin de Pays d'Oc, France (Waitrose, \u00a34.39, down from \u00a35.49) This creamy-textured wine is a good option if you're going to drink white with Christmas dinner because the richness the viognier brings works well with the fruity accompaniments, from the cranberries to the dried fruit in the stuffing.France (Asda, \u00a34.08) Light red wines are good with a traditional Christmas spread. The brightness of the redberry \ufb02avours acts like a chutney against the turkey and isn't wrong-footed by sharply astringent cranberry sauce. France (M&S, \u00a35.99) Soft, smooth and unoaked, but \ufb01lled with dark fruit \ufb02avours, this wine, made from the fruit of old vines, is good with turkey and trimmings. It has intensity and juiciness but isn't heavy or dry with tannins that might only emphasise any dryness in the meat. France (\u00a33.99 for 37.5cl, Sainsbury's) Dessert wines don't need to be as expensive as Sauternes: this one, with a gentle apricot taste and honeyed sweetness, is a bargain, and not so unctuous that you'll need a crane to lift you from the table after drinking it with Christmas pudding.", "tags": ["Christmas", "Saving money", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Money"], "title": "Victoria Moore's tips for wine under \u00a36 a bottle"},{"date": "2008-12-11T09:56:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Madonna \"provokes a crazy enthusiasm,\" a prominent Chilean priest said yesterday \u2013 and not in a good way.Jorge Medina Estevez, a retired cardinal and apparent amateur pop critic, began his homily in lofty praise of General Augusto Pinochet, the late dictator responsible for more than 3,000 politically motivated killings and disappearances. He then shifted into a diatribe against sinful Madonna, who sings songs about boys, girls and sweets.\"This woman comes here,\" Medina said, \"and in an incredibly shameless manner she provokes a crazy enthusiasm, an enthusiasm of lust, lustful thoughts, impure thoughts.\" Medina is one of Chile's most prominent clergymen, and as cardinal protodeacon was the man who announced to the world the selection of Benedict XVI as pontiff. He is known for his conservative views, but less so for his album reviews.As per official doctrine, Medina stepped down as a cardinal following his 80th birthday.Madonna is in Santiago for two concerts at the Estadio Nacional. Devotees camped out for more than three days in order to secure good spots at the gig, which is expected to attract more than 60,000 crazy, lusty, impure and enthusiastic fans. There is no word whether anyone camped out to hear Jorge Medina Estevez at mass, nor whether any fellow Pinochet nuts were batting eyelashes at the cleric.", "tags": ["Madonna", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Madonna gets a bad review from Chilean cardinal"},{"date": "2008-11-11T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Champagne sales have fizzled out at Majestic Wine, leading to a 25% drop in its half-year profits. Sales of bubbly, which makes up nearly a fifth of the company's UK business, were down 6.4% in the first half compared with the same period last year, mainly owing to business customers cutting back.Steve Lewis, Majestic's chief executive, said businesses had cut back after the price of champagne went up 15% due to April's increase in duty and the strong euro. \"Champagne sales have fallen as prices have gone up - and people have nothing much to celebrate,\" he said. In response, Majestic has expanded its top range of sparkling wine, costing between \u00a310 and \u00a312, and is running champagne promotions ahead of Christmas.Like-for-like sales in the UK fell 2.1% in the six months to September 29, but the firm insisted it maintained its 3% share of the UK wine market. Sales of fine wine continue to rise, with wines from Argentina, Chile and New Zealand showing strong growth. Half-year profits before tax fell to \u00a35.6m from \u00a37.5m, though total sales were up by 3.4% to \u00a394.1m. The firm has reported growth in annual profits and sales every year since 1992. The average bottle of wine at Majestic now costs \u00a36.19, up from \u00a35.85 last year.", "tags": ["Food & drink industry", "Retail industry", "Business", "Majestic Wine"], "title": "Majestic suffers as firms cut the champagne bill"},{"date": "2008-11-09T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In recent years a determined, Anglo-Chilean woman has become a common sight in the streets of Valpara\u00edso, the port city that was the power base of General Augusto Pinochet. She has spoken to judges, lawyers and ordinary Chileans. Gradually, in a remarkable tale of courage and perseverance, she has pieced together the grisly events that took place over 30 years ago, when she lost her brother to the brutality of the Pinochet regime.Nineteen former naval officials have just been arrested as a result of Patricia Bennetts's efforts. Four vice-admirals, several captains and other Chilean Navy officers face being put on trial. More importantly, justice appears finally to be possible for her brother Michael, a young priest who fell foul of one of the most notorious dictatorships in 20th-century history.Michael Woodward was an idealistic young Englishman, a Roman Catholic priest swept along by the hopeful currents of a new radical 'liberation' theology. He saw his future as helping the poor raise themselves from poverty through the power of prayer and politics. It was a vision that took him back to Chile in the early Seventies, the country where he was born in 1932.There he began to work and live among the people of Cerro Placeres, a working-class neighbourhood of Valpara\u00edso. It was a world away from his privileged childhood as a British public schoolboy. Chile was undergoing a political transformation after the election of the charismatic new Socialist President, Salvador Allende, in 1970. General Augusto Pinochet and his military henchmen brought that experiment in Latin American socialism - and Woodward's ministry to the poor - to an abrupt and violent end. Within 10 days of the 1973 coup, Woodward had disappeared. Eventually his family heard he was dead, though no one could tell them how, why or where his body was buried. Thirty-five years later, as a result of the indefatigable efforts of his sister, that wall of silence is being demolished. Woodward's younger sister, Patricia, a mild-mannered 70-year-old, has returned to Cerro Placeres and set about finding the answers to the questions no one would provide all those years ago.In a country where the deceased dictator still casts a dark and occasionally sinister shadow, she has encountered intimidation and fearful silences. 'The investigation has uncovered a lot of things,' she said. 'Other cases have come to light. It has been discovered that all this was planned before the coup.'Death threats, break-ins, thefts of documentation and angry demonstrations by Pinochet supporters have all formed part of a concentrated attempt to intimidate Bennetts and those helping her. However, her single-minded pursuit of those who kidnapped, tortured and killed her brother has borne fruit. Supported by justice officials operating in an increasingly liberal atmosphere under Socialist President Michelle Bachelet, herself a torture victim, Bennetts has uncovered many of the painful and tragic details of her brother's fate. Father Michael Woodward was almost certainly shot dead. A bullet was fired into his chest - possibly while being held on an elegant, four-masted navy training ship, the Esmeralda. Two witnesses have spoken of a chest wound. His death followed 10 days of brutal torture. The revelation places extra pressure on the investigating judge to bring those arrested to trial. That judge, Eliana Quezada, regularly receives death threats and needs a police bodyguard. 'Judge Quezada has been receiving death threats for a long time. In recent times it has got a lot worse,' Patricia Bennetts said. 'I think it is because of this case.'A state human rights lawyer helping prosecute the case, Karina Fern\u00e1ndez, recently had her house broken into and her laptop computer, containing documents about the case, stolen. 'She was away from home for several hours and somebody got in and stole it,' Bennetts explained. 'They purposely left her jewellery, money and cheque stubs on her bed as if to say, \"This is the only thing we wanted\".'Patricia Bennetts has also needed police escorts at Valpara\u00edso's courthouse as groups of well-heeled, jeering, pro-Pinochet protesters jostled her. 'It has been very hostile,' she said. 'One lady tried to kick me.'Patricia and Michael were born to an English father and Chilean mother. They spent their childhood in Latin America while their father worked as a manager for British American Tobacco. They were sent home to Britain to attend school. Michael went to Downside, a Catholic public school in Somerset. He studied engineering in London but eventually returned to Chile, became a priest and ended up in Valpara\u00edso, a navy town north-west of Santiago.Liberation theology swept through Latin America during the Sixties, as many Catholic priests decided their faith required a commitment not just to God but also to social justice and political action. Michael Woodward was among them and, by the early Seventies, he had joined a Christian Marxist group called the Movement for United Popular Action, or MAPU. The group supported Allende when he came to power in 1970, amid hopes that he would transform Chile. Woodward had already been suspended by a conservative church hierarchy when Chile violently lurched from socialism to right-wing dictatorship.In September 1973 the army commander General Pinochet rebelled, together with other military and police chiefs. Allende and a handful of supporters held out briefly in Santiago's La Moneda palace, but were surrounded by tanks and attacked from the ground and the air. Allende is believed to have turned his own gun on himself as troops entered the palace. The dream of a socialist Chile died with him.Pinochet, a man whose ruthlessness, dark glasses and German-style military uniforms helped earn him a reputation as the world's archetypal Latin American despot, took control and stayed in power for 17 years.It was only after Pinochet stepped down as head of the armed forced in 1998 that Chileans began to hope that they might seek justice for crimes committed in his name. 'Before, people could not speak without fearing for their lives,' Bennetts explained.Pinochet's 1998 arrest in London, after Spanish magistrate Baltasar Garz\u00f3n requested his extradition, raised hopes further - although legal arguments over his British victims concentrated on the killing of stockbroker William Beausire and the torture of British doctor Sheila Cassidy. His death two years ago, when he was being investigated for hundreds of deaths and corruption, removed many of the remaining obstacles. Even now, however, amnesty laws make it hard to get sentences passed for murder. 'The people who are being indicted are being held for kidnapping, not for murder,' said Bennetts. 'If they were indicted for murder, they could appeal to the law of amnesty and be freed.'Bennetts's investigations have helped Chileans piece together the horror of what happened in Valpara\u00edso in the weeks that followed the coup. Her lawyers have shown how navy units took control of the city and set up torture and detention centres in at least three places. These included the Navy War Academy, the Federico Santa Maria University and the Esmeralda.She has also pieced together the terrible saga of her brother's detention, which saw him pass through all three places before, almost certainly, being shot and buried in an anonymous grave. Woodward was picked up ten days after the coup, when he returned to his house in Cerro Placeres. He went into hiding after the coup and naval units had already ransacked the house. It was, in retrospect, rash to go home, but Woodward insisted he had nothing to hide. Few people realised what was happening to those picked up by the military.His ordeal began almost immediately. Witnesses now say that they saw him at the university detention centre. There he was subjected to torture sessions in the swimming pool. 'There were witnesses to say he was sunk and lifted inside the pool,' said his sister.From there he was taken to the Navy War Academy. 'That is where he got most of the torturing,' Bennetts said. 'He was tied to a chair and tortured for an hour with lots of people looking on to see how it was going.' Torturers wrapped their fists in damp towels so that the beating left fewer external marks. He was eventually taken to the Esmeralda. 'There was violence 24 hours a day. Prisoners were taken out, beaten and tortured, returning bruised and vomiting blood,' a former detainee, Mar\u00eda Aliane Comene, said. 'They took me out every night to interrogate me. They hit me on the ears with their hands, they applied electric currents to my tongue and my vagina. They took us out to amuse themselves, to abuse us sexually. They raped us.' Sergio Vuskovic, a former Valpara\u00edso mayor, was tortured for seven days. 'They applied electrical discharges to my penis, my testicles, my torso and my back,' he said.Captain Carlos Fanta, the senior naval officer in Valpara\u00edso on the day Woodward died, has admitted that a navy doctor ordered his evacuation from the Esmeralda after certifying that he would die of the internal bleeding caused by his beatings. By then, Chilean navy officials had planted a newspaper story claiming that the 'pseudo-priest took part in various attacks on police... and sexually abused an indeterminate number of young girls'. On the same day a death certificate was signed, saying Woodward had died of a 'cardio-respiratory arrest' on a road.Reaction to the case has been mixed. 'We have more important things to worry about than stupidities like this,' said Ricardo Bustamante, the head of the students' union, when told that the private Federico Santa Maria University had been used as a torture centre.Carlos Portales, a lawyer representing the accused, used a recent celebration of the Pinochet coup 'and the things that happened afterwards' to claim that the courts were now in Marxist hands. 'With Marxists there is no way of reaching an honourable understanding,' he said. 'We need to change the way we act. We have been too passive.'For years, Patricia Bennetts has campaigned to stop the Esmeralda, also known as The White Lady, being allowed to visit ports in Britain or elsewhere in the world until the Chilean Navy publicly recognised and apologised for its use as a torture centre. However, it was not until 2004 that the navy accepted that 100 prisoners were tortured and raped on board. Navy officials still claim today that only a minority of officers and sailors were involved.Bennetts is now satisfied that many of those involved in the arrest and torture of her brother have been found. She hopes that sentences will be passed before the end of the year. She and her husband, Fred Bennetts, now spend much of their time in Cerro Placeres among the people her brother had tried to help. 'It is encouraging to see how people in the street react,' she said. 'They stop and ask us how it is going. We feel their support.' The final piece of the puzzle, however, has yet to be put into place. Woodward's body is thought to have been sneaked into the city's Playa Ancha cemetery at night by naval personnel. Two years ago Bennetts persuaded Judge Quezada to dig up a section of the cemetery after a tip-off. Her brother's corpse was not found, however.Now the family is in possession of new information. A former grave-digger has said that he was forced at gunpoint to bury three men together, all of whom had been shot in the chest. 'The location of the grave has been pinpointed within a relatively small area,' said Fred Bennetts. 'The area is just a few metres away from another grave in which a skull with a bullet wound was found next to a bullet casing of a calibre used only by the armed forces. I saw the skull and the bullet casing myself.'For the moment, Patricia Bennetts is concentrating on the court case. She says that she will not be put off by the small crowd of former naval personnel who try to intimidate her at the courthouse doors. Nor, like her brother before her, will she respond in kind.'We will keep our cool,' she said. 'We certainly won't shout.'1915 Augusto Pinochet born in Valpara\u00edso, Chile.1932 Michael Woodward born in Chile.1947-1953 Woodward attends Downside school, then studies engineering at King's College London.1954 Woodward returns to Chile and enters a seminary.1961 Woodward ordained.1970 Socialist Salvador Allende becomes President of Chile. Woodward has joined the Marxist Christian MAPU group.1973 Allende dies in coup led by Pinochet. Woodward tortured and killed by naval personnel in Valpara\u00edso.1990 Pinochet stands down as President but remains commander-in -chief.1998 In March Pinochet steps down as commander-in-chief. Arrested in London on a Spanish court order in October.2000 Home Secretary Jack Straw sends Pinochet home in March on grounds of ill-health.2006 Pinochet dies days after being stripped of immunity to prosecution.2008 Nineteen former naval personnel charged in Woodward case.", "tags": ["Augusto Pinochet", "Chile", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "My 35-year fight to find Pinochet torturers who killed my brother"},{"date": "2008-12-08T00:12:57Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Italy (M&S, \u00a35.99, down from \u00a37.99) Bubbles are a \ufb01ne way to begin on Christmas day and these, from north-east Italy, are pink. Tinged with the suggestion of sugared raspberries and strawberries, they slip down very easily.Bio Bio Valley, Chile (Majestic, \u00a35.99, down from \u00a37.49 when you buy two Chilean wines) On the other hand, the cool, mineralic swoosh of this riesling, glittering with sharp citrus \ufb02avours, from one of the much talked-about cooler climate areas in Chile, would make a lively aperitif and be a good match for canapes. Vin de Pays d'Oc, France (Waitrose, \u00a34.39, down from \u00a35.49) This creamy-textured wine is a good option if you're going to drink white with Christmas dinner because the richness the viognier brings works well with the fruity accompaniments, from the cranberries to the dried fruit in the stuffing.France (Asda, \u00a34.08) Light red wines are good with a traditional Christmas spread. The brightness of the redberry \ufb02avours acts like a chutney against the turkey and isn't wrong-footed by sharply astringent cranberry sauce. France (M&S, \u00a35.99) Soft, smooth and unoaked, but \ufb01lled with dark fruit \ufb02avours, this wine, made from the fruit of old vines, is good with turkey and trimmings. It has intensity and juiciness but isn't heavy or dry with tannins that might only emphasise any dryness in the meat. France (\u00a33.99 for 37.5cl, Sainsbury's) Dessert wines don't need to be as expensive as Sauternes: this one, with a gentle apricot taste and honeyed sweetness, is a bargain, and not so unctuous that you'll need a crane to lift you from the table after drinking it with Christmas pudding.", "tags": ["Christmas", "Saving money", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Money"], "title": "Victoria Moore's tips for wine under \u00a36 a bottle"},{"date": "2008-12-11T09:56:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Madonna \"provokes a crazy enthusiasm,\" a prominent Chilean priest said yesterday \u2013 and not in a good way.Jorge Medina Estevez, a retired cardinal and apparent amateur pop critic, began his homily in lofty praise of General Augusto Pinochet, the late dictator responsible for more than 3,000 politically motivated killings and disappearances. He then shifted into a diatribe against sinful Madonna, who sings songs about boys, girls and sweets.\"This woman comes here,\" Medina said, \"and in an incredibly shameless manner she provokes a crazy enthusiasm, an enthusiasm of lust, lustful thoughts, impure thoughts.\" Medina is one of Chile's most prominent clergymen, and as cardinal protodeacon was the man who announced to the world the selection of Benedict XVI as pontiff. He is known for his conservative views, but less so for his album reviews.As per official doctrine, Medina stepped down as a cardinal following his 80th birthday.Madonna is in Santiago for two concerts at the Estadio Nacional. Devotees camped out for more than three days in order to secure good spots at the gig, which is expected to attract more than 60,000 crazy, lusty, impure and enthusiastic fans. There is no word whether anyone camped out to hear Jorge Medina Estevez at mass, nor whether any fellow Pinochet nuts were batting eyelashes at the cleric.", "tags": ["Madonna", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Madonna gets a bad review from Chilean cardinal"},{"date": "2008-11-11T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Champagne sales have fizzled out at Majestic Wine, leading to a 25% drop in its half-year profits. Sales of bubbly, which makes up nearly a fifth of the company's UK business, were down 6.4% in the first half compared with the same period last year, mainly owing to business customers cutting back.Steve Lewis, Majestic's chief executive, said businesses had cut back after the price of champagne went up 15% due to April's increase in duty and the strong euro. \"Champagne sales have fallen as prices have gone up - and people have nothing much to celebrate,\" he said. In response, Majestic has expanded its top range of sparkling wine, costing between \u00a310 and \u00a312, and is running champagne promotions ahead of Christmas.Like-for-like sales in the UK fell 2.1% in the six months to September 29, but the firm insisted it maintained its 3% share of the UK wine market. Sales of fine wine continue to rise, with wines from Argentina, Chile and New Zealand showing strong growth. Half-year profits before tax fell to \u00a35.6m from \u00a37.5m, though total sales were up by 3.4% to \u00a394.1m. The firm has reported growth in annual profits and sales every year since 1992. The average bottle of wine at Majestic now costs \u00a36.19, up from \u00a35.85 last year.", "tags": ["Food & drink industry", "Retail industry", "Business", "Majestic Wine"], "title": "Majestic suffers as firms cut the champagne bill"},{"date": "2008-11-09T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In recent years a determined, Anglo-Chilean woman has become a common sight in the streets of Valpara\u00edso, the port city that was the power base of General Augusto Pinochet. She has spoken to judges, lawyers and ordinary Chileans. Gradually, in a remarkable tale of courage and perseverance, she has pieced together the grisly events that took place over 30 years ago, when she lost her brother to the brutality of the Pinochet regime.Nineteen former naval officials have just been arrested as a result of Patricia Bennetts's efforts. Four vice-admirals, several captains and other Chilean Navy officers face being put on trial. More importantly, justice appears finally to be possible for her brother Michael, a young priest who fell foul of one of the most notorious dictatorships in 20th-century history.Michael Woodward was an idealistic young Englishman, a Roman Catholic priest swept along by the hopeful currents of a new radical 'liberation' theology. He saw his future as helping the poor raise themselves from poverty through the power of prayer and politics. It was a vision that took him back to Chile in the early Seventies, the country where he was born in 1932.There he began to work and live among the people of Cerro Placeres, a working-class neighbourhood of Valpara\u00edso. It was a world away from his privileged childhood as a British public schoolboy. Chile was undergoing a political transformation after the election of the charismatic new Socialist President, Salvador Allende, in 1970. General Augusto Pinochet and his military henchmen brought that experiment in Latin American socialism - and Woodward's ministry to the poor - to an abrupt and violent end. Within 10 days of the 1973 coup, Woodward had disappeared. Eventually his family heard he was dead, though no one could tell them how, why or where his body was buried. Thirty-five years later, as a result of the indefatigable efforts of his sister, that wall of silence is being demolished. Woodward's younger sister, Patricia, a mild-mannered 70-year-old, has returned to Cerro Placeres and set about finding the answers to the questions no one would provide all those years ago.In a country where the deceased dictator still casts a dark and occasionally sinister shadow, she has encountered intimidation and fearful silences. 'The investigation has uncovered a lot of things,' she said. 'Other cases have come to light. It has been discovered that all this was planned before the coup.'Death threats, break-ins, thefts of documentation and angry demonstrations by Pinochet supporters have all formed part of a concentrated attempt to intimidate Bennetts and those helping her. However, her single-minded pursuit of those who kidnapped, tortured and killed her brother has borne fruit. Supported by justice officials operating in an increasingly liberal atmosphere under Socialist President Michelle Bachelet, herself a torture victim, Bennetts has uncovered many of the painful and tragic details of her brother's fate. Father Michael Woodward was almost certainly shot dead. A bullet was fired into his chest - possibly while being held on an elegant, four-masted navy training ship, the Esmeralda. Two witnesses have spoken of a chest wound. His death followed 10 days of brutal torture. The revelation places extra pressure on the investigating judge to bring those arrested to trial. That judge, Eliana Quezada, regularly receives death threats and needs a police bodyguard. 'Judge Quezada has been receiving death threats for a long time. In recent times it has got a lot worse,' Patricia Bennetts said. 'I think it is because of this case.'A state human rights lawyer helping prosecute the case, Karina Fern\u00e1ndez, recently had her house broken into and her laptop computer, containing documents about the case, stolen. 'She was away from home for several hours and somebody got in and stole it,' Bennetts explained. 'They purposely left her jewellery, money and cheque stubs on her bed as if to say, \"This is the only thing we wanted\".'Patricia Bennetts has also needed police escorts at Valpara\u00edso's courthouse as groups of well-heeled, jeering, pro-Pinochet protesters jostled her. 'It has been very hostile,' she said. 'One lady tried to kick me.'Patricia and Michael were born to an English father and Chilean mother. They spent their childhood in Latin America while their father worked as a manager for British American Tobacco. They were sent home to Britain to attend school. Michael went to Downside, a Catholic public school in Somerset. He studied engineering in London but eventually returned to Chile, became a priest and ended up in Valpara\u00edso, a navy town north-west of Santiago.Liberation theology swept through Latin America during the Sixties, as many Catholic priests decided their faith required a commitment not just to God but also to social justice and political action. Michael Woodward was among them and, by the early Seventies, he had joined a Christian Marxist group called the Movement for United Popular Action, or MAPU. The group supported Allende when he came to power in 1970, amid hopes that he would transform Chile. Woodward had already been suspended by a conservative church hierarchy when Chile violently lurched from socialism to right-wing dictatorship.In September 1973 the army commander General Pinochet rebelled, together with other military and police chiefs. Allende and a handful of supporters held out briefly in Santiago's La Moneda palace, but were surrounded by tanks and attacked from the ground and the air. Allende is believed to have turned his own gun on himself as troops entered the palace. The dream of a socialist Chile died with him.Pinochet, a man whose ruthlessness, dark glasses and German-style military uniforms helped earn him a reputation as the world's archetypal Latin American despot, took control and stayed in power for 17 years.It was only after Pinochet stepped down as head of the armed forced in 1998 that Chileans began to hope that they might seek justice for crimes committed in his name. 'Before, people could not speak without fearing for their lives,' Bennetts explained.Pinochet's 1998 arrest in London, after Spanish magistrate Baltasar Garz\u00f3n requested his extradition, raised hopes further - although legal arguments over his British victims concentrated on the killing of stockbroker William Beausire and the torture of British doctor Sheila Cassidy. His death two years ago, when he was being investigated for hundreds of deaths and corruption, removed many of the remaining obstacles. Even now, however, amnesty laws make it hard to get sentences passed for murder. 'The people who are being indicted are being held for kidnapping, not for murder,' said Bennetts. 'If they were indicted for murder, they could appeal to the law of amnesty and be freed.'Bennetts's investigations have helped Chileans piece together the horror of what happened in Valpara\u00edso in the weeks that followed the coup. Her lawyers have shown how navy units took control of the city and set up torture and detention centres in at least three places. These included the Navy War Academy, the Federico Santa Maria University and the Esmeralda.She has also pieced together the terrible saga of her brother's detention, which saw him pass through all three places before, almost certainly, being shot and buried in an anonymous grave. Woodward was picked up ten days after the coup, when he returned to his house in Cerro Placeres. He went into hiding after the coup and naval units had already ransacked the house. It was, in retrospect, rash to go home, but Woodward insisted he had nothing to hide. Few people realised what was happening to those picked up by the military.His ordeal began almost immediately. Witnesses now say that they saw him at the university detention centre. There he was subjected to torture sessions in the swimming pool. 'There were witnesses to say he was sunk and lifted inside the pool,' said his sister.From there he was taken to the Navy War Academy. 'That is where he got most of the torturing,' Bennetts said. 'He was tied to a chair and tortured for an hour with lots of people looking on to see how it was going.' Torturers wrapped their fists in damp towels so that the beating left fewer external marks. He was eventually taken to the Esmeralda. 'There was violence 24 hours a day. Prisoners were taken out, beaten and tortured, returning bruised and vomiting blood,' a former detainee, Mar\u00eda Aliane Comene, said. 'They took me out every night to interrogate me. They hit me on the ears with their hands, they applied electric currents to my tongue and my vagina. They took us out to amuse themselves, to abuse us sexually. They raped us.' Sergio Vuskovic, a former Valpara\u00edso mayor, was tortured for seven days. 'They applied electrical discharges to my penis, my testicles, my torso and my back,' he said.Captain Carlos Fanta, the senior naval officer in Valpara\u00edso on the day Woodward died, has admitted that a navy doctor ordered his evacuation from the Esmeralda after certifying that he would die of the internal bleeding caused by his beatings. By then, Chilean navy officials had planted a newspaper story claiming that the 'pseudo-priest took part in various attacks on police... and sexually abused an indeterminate number of young girls'. On the same day a death certificate was signed, saying Woodward had died of a 'cardio-respiratory arrest' on a road.Reaction to the case has been mixed. 'We have more important things to worry about than stupidities like this,' said Ricardo Bustamante, the head of the students' union, when told that the private Federico Santa Maria University had been used as a torture centre.Carlos Portales, a lawyer representing the accused, used a recent celebration of the Pinochet coup 'and the things that happened afterwards' to claim that the courts were now in Marxist hands. 'With Marxists there is no way of reaching an honourable understanding,' he said. 'We need to change the way we act. We have been too passive.'For years, Patricia Bennetts has campaigned to stop the Esmeralda, also known as The White Lady, being allowed to visit ports in Britain or elsewhere in the world until the Chilean Navy publicly recognised and apologised for its use as a torture centre. However, it was not until 2004 that the navy accepted that 100 prisoners were tortured and raped on board. Navy officials still claim today that only a minority of officers and sailors were involved.Bennetts is now satisfied that many of those involved in the arrest and torture of her brother have been found. She hopes that sentences will be passed before the end of the year. She and her husband, Fred Bennetts, now spend much of their time in Cerro Placeres among the people her brother had tried to help. 'It is encouraging to see how people in the street react,' she said. 'They stop and ask us how it is going. We feel their support.' The final piece of the puzzle, however, has yet to be put into place. Woodward's body is thought to have been sneaked into the city's Playa Ancha cemetery at night by naval personnel. Two years ago Bennetts persuaded Judge Quezada to dig up a section of the cemetery after a tip-off. Her brother's corpse was not found, however.Now the family is in possession of new information. A former grave-digger has said that he was forced at gunpoint to bury three men together, all of whom had been shot in the chest. 'The location of the grave has been pinpointed within a relatively small area,' said Fred Bennetts. 'The area is just a few metres away from another grave in which a skull with a bullet wound was found next to a bullet casing of a calibre used only by the armed forces. I saw the skull and the bullet casing myself.'For the moment, Patricia Bennetts is concentrating on the court case. She says that she will not be put off by the small crowd of former naval personnel who try to intimidate her at the courthouse doors. Nor, like her brother before her, will she respond in kind.'We will keep our cool,' she said. 'We certainly won't shout.'1915 Augusto Pinochet born in Valpara\u00edso, Chile.1932 Michael Woodward born in Chile.1947-1953 Woodward attends Downside school, then studies engineering at King's College London.1954 Woodward returns to Chile and enters a seminary.1961 Woodward ordained.1970 Socialist Salvador Allende becomes President of Chile. Woodward has joined the Marxist Christian MAPU group.1973 Allende dies in coup led by Pinochet. Woodward tortured and killed by naval personnel in Valpara\u00edso.1990 Pinochet stands down as President but remains commander-in -chief.1998 In March Pinochet steps down as commander-in-chief. Arrested in London on a Spanish court order in October.2000 Home Secretary Jack Straw sends Pinochet home in March on grounds of ill-health.2006 Pinochet dies days after being stripped of immunity to prosecution.2008 Nineteen former naval personnel charged in Woodward case.", "tags": ["Augusto Pinochet", "Chile", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "My 35-year fight to find Pinochet torturers who killed my brother"},{"date": "2008-12-17T12:50:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Ten people have been ferried by helicopter from a stricken Royal Navy Antarctic patrol ship after it lost power off the tip of south America, the MoD said today.HMS Endurance was in the Straits of Magellan, the narrow channel separating the tip of south America from the islands of the Tierra del Fuego archipelago, when its engine room flooded just after 3pm yesterday (7pm GMT).The icebreaker, which spends the southern summer patrolling the south Atlantic and Antarctic, was left without main power or propulsion, the MoD said.Ten civilians on board, all members of a British film crew, were ferried by a Chilean navy Panther helicopter to the nearby Felix navy lighthouse as a precaution.There was one minor injury reported during the flooding, the cause of which was being investigated, the MoD added. Power to the rest of the ship was not affected.An MoD spokesman said the ship anchored in the Straits of Magellan awaiting a tug to tow it to Punta Arenas, Chile's southernmost city.\"The situation has now stabilised and the ship is at anchor. They're now really waiting for the tug to arrive and take them into port,\" the spokesman said.\"The crew are very highly trained and know exactly what they are doing.\"A Norwegian cruise liner and a pilot boat are nearby to assist, if needed.The Endurance, which is based in Portsmouth but spends seven months of the year in the Antarctic and south Atlantic, still has 122 people on board, including 14\u00a0civilians.", "tags": ["Military", "Chile", "UK news", "Antarctica", "Water transport", "Royal Navy"], "title": "10 rescued from Royal Navy ship in south Atlantic"},{"date": "2009-03-28T10:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile has stood out in Latin America \u2013 until now, at least \u2013 for the solidity of its economy. The country has applied the old biblical recipe of saving during the fat years in anticipation of the lean (also known as countercyclical policies).Like the rest of the region, Chile benefited from the recent boom in raw materials, specifically from a record copper price. The countercyclical approach was partly forced on the government because it could not risk pumping the windfall earnings into the economy for fear of creating massive inflation. As a result, Chile managed to save some $22bn, equivalent to six months' export earnings, in a sovereign fund, which is now providing a comfortable cushion from the shock of the international crisis.  The one word the governing and entrepreneurial elite dread is protectionism. Chile has signed more free trade agreements than any other country in the world, with 54 major nations in Asia and Europe, and including the EU and the US. International trade accounts for more than 60 per cent of its GDP. The most dynamic sector of its economy, where the highest wages are paid, is linked to the external market. So the first and greatest worry for Chilean business and workers would be protectionist policies, coming on top of reduced demand.A second, equally grave, concern is the danger that foreign investment may slow down or even dry up. Foreign mining companies, for example, account for a major share of mineral exports. Lower or no outside investment would mean lower export growth and fewer jobs as well as the loss of technology expertise. In the 1970s, Chile was already a prime laboratory for the neoliberal policies applied later in many countries. The complete deregulation of the financial markets and the systematic reduction of the state started immediately after the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet imposed its brutally repressive rule in 1973. Under the guidance of Milton Friedman and the Chicago school of economics, Chilean technocrats applied shock tactics. Using the criteria of its comparative advantages, Chile moved from a protected to a wide open economy. Many of its fledging industries disappeared while raw materials and agricultural products prospered. The hastily deregulated financial system collapsed spectacularly in 1982, and the huge debts of the private banks were absorbed by \u2013 what else? \u2013 the state. It was in many ways an anticipation of what has now happened to the international banking system. The Chilean solution to a de facto nationalisation of the banks was to create \"A\" and \"B\" shares. \"A\" group shareholders, the former owners, received no dividends until the new \"B\" share owners were fully reimbursed, which took some 15 years.  Ever since, the Chilean banking system has operated under a number of restrictions. Speculative capital was long curbed by reserve requirements, and private pension schemes are limited in the amounts they can invest abroad. With the restoration of democracy in 1990 some of the more blatant injustices began to be redressed \u2013 but without changing the essentials of the previous economic policies of open trade, including the lowest tariff barriers in the region. Chile now holds two contradictory records: it has been more successful than any other country in the region in reducing poverty; and it ranks among the most inequitable nations in the world. The rest of Latin America, like Chile, is better prepared to resist the economic downturn than on previous occasions. The recent high prices for its raw materials \u2013 soya, wheat, wood pulp, oil, gas, and iron, among others \u2013 has allowed it to build up reserves. Now their concern is that the rich economies should not exacerbate the crisis by closing down credit and investment in the developing world. \u2022 In association with the Global Policy Institute and the London Office of the Friedrich Ebert Foundation, Comment is Free and Germany's Zeit-Online are running a series of commentaries from countries not invited to the G20 summit. Look out for further views in the next week.", "tags": ["G20", "Chile", "Global recession", "Global economy"], "title": "Ra\u00fal David Sohr Biss: By simply saving for a rainy day, Chile has weathered the global financial storm"},{"date": "2009-03-28T10:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile has stood out in Latin America \u2013 until now, at least \u2013 for the solidity of its economy. The country has applied the old biblical recipe of saving during the fat years in anticipation of the lean (also known as countercyclical policies).Like the rest of the region, Chile benefited from the recent boom in raw materials, specifically from a record copper price. The countercyclical approach was partly forced on the government because it could not risk pumping the windfall earnings into the economy for fear of creating massive inflation. As a result, Chile managed to save some $22bn, equivalent to six months' export earnings, in a sovereign fund, which is now providing a comfortable cushion from the shock of the international crisis.  The one word the governing and entrepreneurial elite dread is protectionism. Chile has signed more free trade agreements than any other country in the world, with 54 major nations in Asia and Europe, and including the EU and the US. International trade accounts for more than 60 per cent of its GDP. The most dynamic sector of its economy, where the highest wages are paid, is linked to the external market. So the first and greatest worry for Chilean business and workers would be protectionist policies, coming on top of reduced demand.A second, equally grave, concern is the danger that foreign investment may slow down or even dry up. Foreign mining companies, for example, account for a major share of mineral exports. Lower or no outside investment would mean lower export growth and fewer jobs as well as the loss of technology expertise. In the 1970s, Chile was already a prime laboratory for the neoliberal policies applied later in many countries. The complete deregulation of the financial markets and the systematic reduction of the state started immediately after the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet imposed its brutally repressive rule in 1973. Under the guidance of Milton Friedman and the Chicago school of economics, Chilean technocrats applied shock tactics. Using the criteria of its comparative advantages, Chile moved from a protected to a wide open economy. Many of its fledging industries disappeared while raw materials and agricultural products prospered. The hastily deregulated financial system collapsed spectacularly in 1982, and the huge debts of the private banks were absorbed by \u2013 what else? \u2013 the state. It was in many ways an anticipation of what has now happened to the international banking system. The Chilean solution to a de facto nationalisation of the banks was to create \"A\" and \"B\" shares. \"A\" group shareholders, the former owners, received no dividends until the new \"B\" share owners were fully reimbursed, which took some 15 years.  Ever since, the Chilean banking system has operated under a number of restrictions. Speculative capital was long curbed by reserve requirements, and private pension schemes are limited in the amounts they can invest abroad. With the restoration of democracy in 1990 some of the more blatant injustices began to be redressed \u2013 but without changing the essentials of the previous economic policies of open trade, including the lowest tariff barriers in the region. Chile now holds two contradictory records: it has been more successful than any other country in the region in reducing poverty; and it ranks among the most inequitable nations in the world. The rest of Latin America, like Chile, is better prepared to resist the economic downturn than on previous occasions. The recent high prices for its raw materials \u2013 soya, wheat, wood pulp, oil, gas, and iron, among others \u2013 has allowed it to build up reserves. Now their concern is that the rich economies should not exacerbate the crisis by closing down credit and investment in the developing world. \u2022 In association with the Global Policy Institute and the London Office of the Friedrich Ebert Foundation, Comment is Free and Germany's Zeit-Online are running a series of commentaries from countries not invited to the G20 summit. Look out for further views in the next week.", "tags": ["G20", "Chile", "Global recession", "Global economy"], "title": "Ra\u00fal David Sohr Biss: By simply saving for a rainy day, Chile has weathered the global financial storm"},{"date": "2009-02-13T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Beijing's Securities Times knew what to make of it. State-owned Chinalco's $20bn investment in Rio Tinto would \"contain and control pricing power monopolised by the multinational companies,\" it said. Quite; that's one reason why the deal sucks from the point of view of Rio's shareholders.Rio, naturally, tried to allay these fears by talking about \"clear governance arrangements and continued commercial marketing of joint venture product.\" It spoiled the effect, though, by saying that one of two non-executive directors nominated by Chinalco would be regarded as \"independent\". When the language is being strangled on day one, the shareholders are right to be afraid about the influence of the biggest customer, China.Rio made two other defences. It pointed to the premium prices Chinalco is supposedly paying for its investment in nine mines. But nobody really knows a decent price these days for, say, a copper mine in Chile. Maybe Chinalco is paying over the odds, but the analysts were not blown away - good, but not a knockout, was the general verdict.Rio's other argument is that a rights issue to raise $20bn would have been impossible. That is probably right. You don't have to be David Mayhew, top-drawer JP Morgan Cazenove corporate broker and Rio non-executive, to know that assembling \u00a314bn of underwriting capacity is a non-starter. But, Rio doesn't need $20bn at this stage. Half that sum would do - and a rights issue of that size looks do-able. And, if a drawn-out rights issue doesn't offer sufficient certainty, why not offer the convertible bonds to the shareholders? A coupon of 9.5% is attractive. Throw in the disposal of a few non-core mines and Rio would be a long way towards financial security.Will the rebellion succeed? Brave words are one thing; voting down a major fundraising, and presumably sacking half the board, is another. This time, though, the anger may last. At Barclays, fund managers had no choice but to hold their nose and back the Middle Eastern fundraising because the bank would have been in a pickle without its cash. Rio, by contrast, would have time to make alternative arrangements.In fact, Australian politicians may present a more formidable obstacle. Chinalco would own 18% of Rio if its convertible bonds become equity, breaching a 15% cap imposed only last year. That's plain cheeky on Rio's part.Pay rises all round at the Financial Services Authority, then? Well, not exactly. A pot of \u00a310m will be set aside to recruit \"quality supervisors and supervisory support\". The FSA thinks it has a few individuals who fit this description but would like some more. Not too many, mind - the emphasis will be on quality not quantity, says chief executive Hector Sants.The FSA's timing - in the middle of a row about the supervision of HBOS - is not perfect, but it is hard to dispute the sense of what it is doing. If we want better financial regulation, we have no choice but to pay for it. Strictly speaking, the FSA's coffers are filled by the firms it regulates. But, given that most of us are investors in the biggest firms, either as taxpayer-owners or through pension schemes, it amounts to the same thing.However, regulation on the cheap, - a rough summary of the FSA's first decade - has to end. A bigger budget won't guarantee a better performance, but it's part of the package. Nor do pay levels at the FSA seem excessive by City standards. A salary of \u00a3100,000 or thereabouts for a lead supervisory manager should not cause jaws to drop.Sants did not venture far into the dangerous territory of Sir James Crosby's departure as vice-chairman. But Crosby should never have been appointed to the board in 2004 since he was chief executive of HBOS, a major regulated firm, at the time. And it would be dumb to conclude from the saga that ex-bankers should not serve at the FSA. Somebody has to provide the financial expertise. As long as there is also proper consumer representation, that should not be controversial.It's only roughly true that BT's shares yesterday hit their lowest level since privatisation in 1984, since the price ignores the demerger of O2 a few years ago. But a sub-100p share price still feels awful. Surely it can't go lower, you might think. Unfortunately, the uncertainties pile up. We don't know the size of the (inevitable) dividend cut, the size of the next write-down on IT contracts or the size of the rise in pension contributions. A quarter of a century after flotation, the outlook remains cloudy.nils.pratley@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "Mining", "Regulators", "Banking", "BT", "Telecoms", "Business"], "title": "Nils Pratley: Rio Tinto risks running into eastern block"},{"date": "2009-03-28T10:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile has stood out in Latin America \u2013 until now, at least \u2013 for the solidity of its economy. The country has applied the old biblical recipe of saving during the fat years in anticipation of the lean (also known as countercyclical policies).Like the rest of the region, Chile benefited from the recent boom in raw materials, specifically from a record copper price. The countercyclical approach was partly forced on the government because it could not risk pumping the windfall earnings into the economy for fear of creating massive inflation. As a result, Chile managed to save some $22bn, equivalent to six months' export earnings, in a sovereign fund, which is now providing a comfortable cushion from the shock of the international crisis.  The one word the governing and entrepreneurial elite dread is protectionism. Chile has signed more free trade agreements than any other country in the world, with 54 major nations in Asia and Europe, and including the EU and the US. International trade accounts for more than 60 per cent of its GDP. The most dynamic sector of its economy, where the highest wages are paid, is linked to the external market. So the first and greatest worry for Chilean business and workers would be protectionist policies, coming on top of reduced demand.A second, equally grave, concern is the danger that foreign investment may slow down or even dry up. Foreign mining companies, for example, account for a major share of mineral exports. Lower or no outside investment would mean lower export growth and fewer jobs as well as the loss of technology expertise. In the 1970s, Chile was already a prime laboratory for the neoliberal policies applied later in many countries. The complete deregulation of the financial markets and the systematic reduction of the state started immediately after the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet imposed its brutally repressive rule in 1973. Under the guidance of Milton Friedman and the Chicago school of economics, Chilean technocrats applied shock tactics. Using the criteria of its comparative advantages, Chile moved from a protected to a wide open economy. Many of its fledging industries disappeared while raw materials and agricultural products prospered. The hastily deregulated financial system collapsed spectacularly in 1982, and the huge debts of the private banks were absorbed by \u2013 what else? \u2013 the state. It was in many ways an anticipation of what has now happened to the international banking system. The Chilean solution to a de facto nationalisation of the banks was to create \"A\" and \"B\" shares. \"A\" group shareholders, the former owners, received no dividends until the new \"B\" share owners were fully reimbursed, which took some 15 years.  Ever since, the Chilean banking system has operated under a number of restrictions. Speculative capital was long curbed by reserve requirements, and private pension schemes are limited in the amounts they can invest abroad. With the restoration of democracy in 1990 some of the more blatant injustices began to be redressed \u2013 but without changing the essentials of the previous economic policies of open trade, including the lowest tariff barriers in the region. Chile now holds two contradictory records: it has been more successful than any other country in the region in reducing poverty; and it ranks among the most inequitable nations in the world. The rest of Latin America, like Chile, is better prepared to resist the economic downturn than on previous occasions. The recent high prices for its raw materials \u2013 soya, wheat, wood pulp, oil, gas, and iron, among others \u2013 has allowed it to build up reserves. Now their concern is that the rich economies should not exacerbate the crisis by closing down credit and investment in the developing world. \u2022 In association with the Global Policy Institute and the London Office of the Friedrich Ebert Foundation, Comment is Free and Germany's Zeit-Online are running a series of commentaries from countries not invited to the G20 summit. Look out for further views in the next week.", "tags": ["G20", "Chile", "Global recession", "Global economy"], "title": "Ra\u00fal David Sohr Biss: By simply saving for a rainy day, Chile has weathered the global financial storm"},{"date": "2009-02-13T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Beijing's Securities Times knew what to make of it. State-owned Chinalco's $20bn investment in Rio Tinto would \"contain and control pricing power monopolised by the multinational companies,\" it said. Quite; that's one reason why the deal sucks from the point of view of Rio's shareholders.Rio, naturally, tried to allay these fears by talking about \"clear governance arrangements and continued commercial marketing of joint venture product.\" It spoiled the effect, though, by saying that one of two non-executive directors nominated by Chinalco would be regarded as \"independent\". When the language is being strangled on day one, the shareholders are right to be afraid about the influence of the biggest customer, China.Rio made two other defences. It pointed to the premium prices Chinalco is supposedly paying for its investment in nine mines. But nobody really knows a decent price these days for, say, a copper mine in Chile. Maybe Chinalco is paying over the odds, but the analysts were not blown away - good, but not a knockout, was the general verdict.Rio's other argument is that a rights issue to raise $20bn would have been impossible. That is probably right. You don't have to be David Mayhew, top-drawer JP Morgan Cazenove corporate broker and Rio non-executive, to know that assembling \u00a314bn of underwriting capacity is a non-starter. But, Rio doesn't need $20bn at this stage. Half that sum would do - and a rights issue of that size looks do-able. And, if a drawn-out rights issue doesn't offer sufficient certainty, why not offer the convertible bonds to the shareholders? A coupon of 9.5% is attractive. Throw in the disposal of a few non-core mines and Rio would be a long way towards financial security.Will the rebellion succeed? Brave words are one thing; voting down a major fundraising, and presumably sacking half the board, is another. This time, though, the anger may last. At Barclays, fund managers had no choice but to hold their nose and back the Middle Eastern fundraising because the bank would have been in a pickle without its cash. Rio, by contrast, would have time to make alternative arrangements.In fact, Australian politicians may present a more formidable obstacle. Chinalco would own 18% of Rio if its convertible bonds become equity, breaching a 15% cap imposed only last year. That's plain cheeky on Rio's part.Pay rises all round at the Financial Services Authority, then? Well, not exactly. A pot of \u00a310m will be set aside to recruit \"quality supervisors and supervisory support\". The FSA thinks it has a few individuals who fit this description but would like some more. Not too many, mind - the emphasis will be on quality not quantity, says chief executive Hector Sants.The FSA's timing - in the middle of a row about the supervision of HBOS - is not perfect, but it is hard to dispute the sense of what it is doing. If we want better financial regulation, we have no choice but to pay for it. Strictly speaking, the FSA's coffers are filled by the firms it regulates. But, given that most of us are investors in the biggest firms, either as taxpayer-owners or through pension schemes, it amounts to the same thing.However, regulation on the cheap, - a rough summary of the FSA's first decade - has to end. A bigger budget won't guarantee a better performance, but it's part of the package. Nor do pay levels at the FSA seem excessive by City standards. A salary of \u00a3100,000 or thereabouts for a lead supervisory manager should not cause jaws to drop.Sants did not venture far into the dangerous territory of Sir James Crosby's departure as vice-chairman. But Crosby should never have been appointed to the board in 2004 since he was chief executive of HBOS, a major regulated firm, at the time. And it would be dumb to conclude from the saga that ex-bankers should not serve at the FSA. Somebody has to provide the financial expertise. As long as there is also proper consumer representation, that should not be controversial.It's only roughly true that BT's shares yesterday hit their lowest level since privatisation in 1984, since the price ignores the demerger of O2 a few years ago. But a sub-100p share price still feels awful. Surely it can't go lower, you might think. Unfortunately, the uncertainties pile up. We don't know the size of the (inevitable) dividend cut, the size of the next write-down on IT contracts or the size of the rise in pension contributions. A quarter of a century after flotation, the outlook remains cloudy.nils.pratley@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "Mining", "Regulators", "Banking", "BT", "Telecoms", "Business"], "title": "Nils Pratley: Rio Tinto risks running into eastern block"},{"date": "2009-03-24T11:43:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Gordon Brown will today continue efforts to secure a coordinated world response to the economic downturn at next week's G20 summit in London, meeting global bank chiefs, addressing MEPs and embarking on a foreign visit.The prime minister will take part in a debate on the crisis at the European parliament in Strasbourg on the first leg of a tour that will also take in New York, Brazil and Chile.Brown, who yesterday spoke to the US president, Barack Obama, about the impending gathering of leading nations, was starting the day by meeting international banking chiefs at Downing Street with the chancellor, Alistair Darling.Chief executives from major countries across the world will be urged to restore lending both in the UK and globally and warned of the risks to the global economy of a return to protectionism.The Financial Services Authority chairman, Lord Turner, will present them with his reform proposals for banking regulation, which Brown has promoted as a blueprint for other nations.Brown's speech to MEPs, his first such address as prime minister, comes days after a summit of EU leaders backed a number of emergency measures, including doubling support available to struggling former eastern bloc economies.Last week's European council also agreed a further $100bn (\u00a369bn) loan to the International Monetary Fund for emergency bail-outs in the developing world and a \u20ac5bn (\u00a34.7bn) package of spending on renewable energy and broadband.Brown told MPs yesterday that EU leaders had made proposals to \"reshape the global financial and trading system\" and do what was necessary to build economic recovery across the world, including rejecting protectionism, \"that history tells us in the end protects no one\".\"The council was clear that by acting together the EU can put its financial sector on a sound footing, get credit flowing to the real economy and protect its citizens from the worst impacts of this crisis,\" he said.The G20 was top of the agenda when Brown and Obama enjoyed what the White House called a productive 25-minute discussion yesterday \u2013 which Washington hopes to repeat before the president travels to the UK.Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan were also discussed by the two men, who met face-to-face earlier this month when Brown became the first European leader to visit the new president.Brown hopes to use the gathering of leading nations to forge a \"global new deal\" although the US administration has said the president was not seeking to negotiate \"specific commitments\".Downing Street defended the prime minister's extended tour, insisting that Latin American countries would \"play a very important role\" in fighting the economic downturn.\"It is crucial that they are part of the debate about how we deal with the ongoing difficulties in the international economy,\" his spokesman told reporters.Among the leaders Brown is expected to meet on the trip is Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, who is expected to raise the issue of the Falkland islands with him.Fern\u00e1ndez has made the issue of the islands a personal priority, announcing in her inaugural speech that Argentina's sovereignty was non-negotiable and repeating the claim on the 26th anniversary of the 1982 invasion last year.She is expected to use the opportunity of meeting Brown to set out her position on the islands, which were restored to UK rule after a war which cost the lives of 255 British service personnel.Brown's spokesman confirmed that the pair were expected to meet but added that it would \"come as no surprise to anybody that our position on the sovereignty of the Falkland islands has and will remain unchanged\".", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Gordon Brown", "Recession", "Global recession", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "US news", "European Union", "Banking", "Business", "Chile"], "title": "Gordon Brown continues push for worldwide deal on economy"},{"date": "2009-03-28T10:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile has stood out in Latin America \u2013 until now, at least \u2013 for the solidity of its economy. The country has applied the old biblical recipe of saving during the fat years in anticipation of the lean (also known as countercyclical policies).Like the rest of the region, Chile benefited from the recent boom in raw materials, specifically from a record copper price. The countercyclical approach was partly forced on the government because it could not risk pumping the windfall earnings into the economy for fear of creating massive inflation. As a result, Chile managed to save some $22bn, equivalent to six months' export earnings, in a sovereign fund, which is now providing a comfortable cushion from the shock of the international crisis.  The one word the governing and entrepreneurial elite dread is protectionism. Chile has signed more free trade agreements than any other country in the world, with 54 major nations in Asia and Europe, and including the EU and the US. International trade accounts for more than 60 per cent of its GDP. The most dynamic sector of its economy, where the highest wages are paid, is linked to the external market. So the first and greatest worry for Chilean business and workers would be protectionist policies, coming on top of reduced demand.A second, equally grave, concern is the danger that foreign investment may slow down or even dry up. Foreign mining companies, for example, account for a major share of mineral exports. Lower or no outside investment would mean lower export growth and fewer jobs as well as the loss of technology expertise. In the 1970s, Chile was already a prime laboratory for the neoliberal policies applied later in many countries. The complete deregulation of the financial markets and the systematic reduction of the state started immediately after the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet imposed its brutally repressive rule in 1973. Under the guidance of Milton Friedman and the Chicago school of economics, Chilean technocrats applied shock tactics. Using the criteria of its comparative advantages, Chile moved from a protected to a wide open economy. Many of its fledging industries disappeared while raw materials and agricultural products prospered. The hastily deregulated financial system collapsed spectacularly in 1982, and the huge debts of the private banks were absorbed by \u2013 what else? \u2013 the state. It was in many ways an anticipation of what has now happened to the international banking system. The Chilean solution to a de facto nationalisation of the banks was to create \"A\" and \"B\" shares. \"A\" group shareholders, the former owners, received no dividends until the new \"B\" share owners were fully reimbursed, which took some 15 years.  Ever since, the Chilean banking system has operated under a number of restrictions. Speculative capital was long curbed by reserve requirements, and private pension schemes are limited in the amounts they can invest abroad. With the restoration of democracy in 1990 some of the more blatant injustices began to be redressed \u2013 but without changing the essentials of the previous economic policies of open trade, including the lowest tariff barriers in the region. Chile now holds two contradictory records: it has been more successful than any other country in the region in reducing poverty; and it ranks among the most inequitable nations in the world. The rest of Latin America, like Chile, is better prepared to resist the economic downturn than on previous occasions. The recent high prices for its raw materials \u2013 soya, wheat, wood pulp, oil, gas, and iron, among others \u2013 has allowed it to build up reserves. Now their concern is that the rich economies should not exacerbate the crisis by closing down credit and investment in the developing world. \u2022 In association with the Global Policy Institute and the London Office of the Friedrich Ebert Foundation, Comment is Free and Germany's Zeit-Online are running a series of commentaries from countries not invited to the G20 summit. Look out for further views in the next week.", "tags": ["G20", "Chile", "Global recession", "Global economy"], "title": "Ra\u00fal David Sohr Biss: By simply saving for a rainy day, Chile has weathered the global financial storm"},{"date": "2009-02-13T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Beijing's Securities Times knew what to make of it. State-owned Chinalco's $20bn investment in Rio Tinto would \"contain and control pricing power monopolised by the multinational companies,\" it said. Quite; that's one reason why the deal sucks from the point of view of Rio's shareholders.Rio, naturally, tried to allay these fears by talking about \"clear governance arrangements and continued commercial marketing of joint venture product.\" It spoiled the effect, though, by saying that one of two non-executive directors nominated by Chinalco would be regarded as \"independent\". When the language is being strangled on day one, the shareholders are right to be afraid about the influence of the biggest customer, China.Rio made two other defences. It pointed to the premium prices Chinalco is supposedly paying for its investment in nine mines. But nobody really knows a decent price these days for, say, a copper mine in Chile. Maybe Chinalco is paying over the odds, but the analysts were not blown away - good, but not a knockout, was the general verdict.Rio's other argument is that a rights issue to raise $20bn would have been impossible. That is probably right. You don't have to be David Mayhew, top-drawer JP Morgan Cazenove corporate broker and Rio non-executive, to know that assembling \u00a314bn of underwriting capacity is a non-starter. But, Rio doesn't need $20bn at this stage. Half that sum would do - and a rights issue of that size looks do-able. And, if a drawn-out rights issue doesn't offer sufficient certainty, why not offer the convertible bonds to the shareholders? A coupon of 9.5% is attractive. Throw in the disposal of a few non-core mines and Rio would be a long way towards financial security.Will the rebellion succeed? Brave words are one thing; voting down a major fundraising, and presumably sacking half the board, is another. This time, though, the anger may last. At Barclays, fund managers had no choice but to hold their nose and back the Middle Eastern fundraising because the bank would have been in a pickle without its cash. Rio, by contrast, would have time to make alternative arrangements.In fact, Australian politicians may present a more formidable obstacle. Chinalco would own 18% of Rio if its convertible bonds become equity, breaching a 15% cap imposed only last year. That's plain cheeky on Rio's part.Pay rises all round at the Financial Services Authority, then? Well, not exactly. A pot of \u00a310m will be set aside to recruit \"quality supervisors and supervisory support\". The FSA thinks it has a few individuals who fit this description but would like some more. Not too many, mind - the emphasis will be on quality not quantity, says chief executive Hector Sants.The FSA's timing - in the middle of a row about the supervision of HBOS - is not perfect, but it is hard to dispute the sense of what it is doing. If we want better financial regulation, we have no choice but to pay for it. Strictly speaking, the FSA's coffers are filled by the firms it regulates. But, given that most of us are investors in the biggest firms, either as taxpayer-owners or through pension schemes, it amounts to the same thing.However, regulation on the cheap, - a rough summary of the FSA's first decade - has to end. A bigger budget won't guarantee a better performance, but it's part of the package. Nor do pay levels at the FSA seem excessive by City standards. A salary of \u00a3100,000 or thereabouts for a lead supervisory manager should not cause jaws to drop.Sants did not venture far into the dangerous territory of Sir James Crosby's departure as vice-chairman. But Crosby should never have been appointed to the board in 2004 since he was chief executive of HBOS, a major regulated firm, at the time. And it would be dumb to conclude from the saga that ex-bankers should not serve at the FSA. Somebody has to provide the financial expertise. As long as there is also proper consumer representation, that should not be controversial.It's only roughly true that BT's shares yesterday hit their lowest level since privatisation in 1984, since the price ignores the demerger of O2 a few years ago. But a sub-100p share price still feels awful. Surely it can't go lower, you might think. Unfortunately, the uncertainties pile up. We don't know the size of the (inevitable) dividend cut, the size of the next write-down on IT contracts or the size of the rise in pension contributions. A quarter of a century after flotation, the outlook remains cloudy.nils.pratley@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "Mining", "Regulators", "Banking", "BT", "Telecoms", "Business"], "title": "Nils Pratley: Rio Tinto risks running into eastern block"},{"date": "2009-03-24T11:43:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Gordon Brown will today continue efforts to secure a coordinated world response to the economic downturn at next week's G20 summit in London, meeting global bank chiefs, addressing MEPs and embarking on a foreign visit.The prime minister will take part in a debate on the crisis at the European parliament in Strasbourg on the first leg of a tour that will also take in New York, Brazil and Chile.Brown, who yesterday spoke to the US president, Barack Obama, about the impending gathering of leading nations, was starting the day by meeting international banking chiefs at Downing Street with the chancellor, Alistair Darling.Chief executives from major countries across the world will be urged to restore lending both in the UK and globally and warned of the risks to the global economy of a return to protectionism.The Financial Services Authority chairman, Lord Turner, will present them with his reform proposals for banking regulation, which Brown has promoted as a blueprint for other nations.Brown's speech to MEPs, his first such address as prime minister, comes days after a summit of EU leaders backed a number of emergency measures, including doubling support available to struggling former eastern bloc economies.Last week's European council also agreed a further $100bn (\u00a369bn) loan to the International Monetary Fund for emergency bail-outs in the developing world and a \u20ac5bn (\u00a34.7bn) package of spending on renewable energy and broadband.Brown told MPs yesterday that EU leaders had made proposals to \"reshape the global financial and trading system\" and do what was necessary to build economic recovery across the world, including rejecting protectionism, \"that history tells us in the end protects no one\".\"The council was clear that by acting together the EU can put its financial sector on a sound footing, get credit flowing to the real economy and protect its citizens from the worst impacts of this crisis,\" he said.The G20 was top of the agenda when Brown and Obama enjoyed what the White House called a productive 25-minute discussion yesterday \u2013 which Washington hopes to repeat before the president travels to the UK.Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan were also discussed by the two men, who met face-to-face earlier this month when Brown became the first European leader to visit the new president.Brown hopes to use the gathering of leading nations to forge a \"global new deal\" although the US administration has said the president was not seeking to negotiate \"specific commitments\".Downing Street defended the prime minister's extended tour, insisting that Latin American countries would \"play a very important role\" in fighting the economic downturn.\"It is crucial that they are part of the debate about how we deal with the ongoing difficulties in the international economy,\" his spokesman told reporters.Among the leaders Brown is expected to meet on the trip is Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, who is expected to raise the issue of the Falkland islands with him.Fern\u00e1ndez has made the issue of the islands a personal priority, announcing in her inaugural speech that Argentina's sovereignty was non-negotiable and repeating the claim on the 26th anniversary of the 1982 invasion last year.She is expected to use the opportunity of meeting Brown to set out her position on the islands, which were restored to UK rule after a war which cost the lives of 255 British service personnel.Brown's spokesman confirmed that the pair were expected to meet but added that it would \"come as no surprise to anybody that our position on the sovereignty of the Falkland islands has and will remain unchanged\".", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Gordon Brown", "Recession", "Global recession", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "US news", "European Union", "Banking", "Business", "Chile"], "title": "Gordon Brown continues push for worldwide deal on economy"},{"date": "2009-03-29T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Why did you choose Saturday Night Fever as the subject of Peralta's obsession?Saturday Night Fever was a huge success in Santiago, so it was a cultural reference point. Tony Manero achieves the American dream through dancing, and Ra\u00fal Peralta thinks that is a possibility for him. The problems begin when he tries to transport that dream into his own reality. Is the film intended to be a comment on the Americanisation of Chile?The film is a portrait of a particular character in a unique situation, but, yes, Peralta's behaviour is also intended to be a metaphor for Chile under Pinochet: Peralta wants to be as similar as possible to some foreign icon just as Chile under Pinochet was trying to be like America. Peralta's impunity also replicates the impunity of the government back then. How have audiences responded to the film?In Chile audiences were very polarised: people loved it or hated it. But in Japan they thought it was a comedy and laughed the entire time. What does John Travolta think about the film?He wrote a letter to us saying he was very glad that we'd been having so much success with it. He was supposed to come and see it at a screening in LA but then this tragedy with his son happened so he didn't attend. \u2022 Tony Manero (18) opens on 10 April", "tags": ["World cinema", "Drama", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Imogen Carter speaks to the Chilean director of Tony Manero"},{"date": "2009-03-28T10:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile has stood out in Latin America \u2013 until now, at least \u2013 for the solidity of its economy. The country has applied the old biblical recipe of saving during the fat years in anticipation of the lean (also known as countercyclical policies).Like the rest of the region, Chile benefited from the recent boom in raw materials, specifically from a record copper price. The countercyclical approach was partly forced on the government because it could not risk pumping the windfall earnings into the economy for fear of creating massive inflation. As a result, Chile managed to save some $22bn, equivalent to six months' export earnings, in a sovereign fund, which is now providing a comfortable cushion from the shock of the international crisis.  The one word the governing and entrepreneurial elite dread is protectionism. Chile has signed more free trade agreements than any other country in the world, with 54 major nations in Asia and Europe, and including the EU and the US. International trade accounts for more than 60 per cent of its GDP. The most dynamic sector of its economy, where the highest wages are paid, is linked to the external market. So the first and greatest worry for Chilean business and workers would be protectionist policies, coming on top of reduced demand.A second, equally grave, concern is the danger that foreign investment may slow down or even dry up. Foreign mining companies, for example, account for a major share of mineral exports. Lower or no outside investment would mean lower export growth and fewer jobs as well as the loss of technology expertise. In the 1970s, Chile was already a prime laboratory for the neoliberal policies applied later in many countries. The complete deregulation of the financial markets and the systematic reduction of the state started immediately after the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet imposed its brutally repressive rule in 1973. Under the guidance of Milton Friedman and the Chicago school of economics, Chilean technocrats applied shock tactics. Using the criteria of its comparative advantages, Chile moved from a protected to a wide open economy. Many of its fledging industries disappeared while raw materials and agricultural products prospered. The hastily deregulated financial system collapsed spectacularly in 1982, and the huge debts of the private banks were absorbed by \u2013 what else? \u2013 the state. It was in many ways an anticipation of what has now happened to the international banking system. The Chilean solution to a de facto nationalisation of the banks was to create \"A\" and \"B\" shares. \"A\" group shareholders, the former owners, received no dividends until the new \"B\" share owners were fully reimbursed, which took some 15 years.  Ever since, the Chilean banking system has operated under a number of restrictions. Speculative capital was long curbed by reserve requirements, and private pension schemes are limited in the amounts they can invest abroad. With the restoration of democracy in 1990 some of the more blatant injustices began to be redressed \u2013 but without changing the essentials of the previous economic policies of open trade, including the lowest tariff barriers in the region. Chile now holds two contradictory records: it has been more successful than any other country in the region in reducing poverty; and it ranks among the most inequitable nations in the world. The rest of Latin America, like Chile, is better prepared to resist the economic downturn than on previous occasions. The recent high prices for its raw materials \u2013 soya, wheat, wood pulp, oil, gas, and iron, among others \u2013 has allowed it to build up reserves. Now their concern is that the rich economies should not exacerbate the crisis by closing down credit and investment in the developing world. \u2022 In association with the Global Policy Institute and the London Office of the Friedrich Ebert Foundation, Comment is Free and Germany's Zeit-Online are running a series of commentaries from countries not invited to the G20 summit. Look out for further views in the next week.", "tags": ["G20", "Chile", "Global recession", "Global economy"], "title": "Ra\u00fal David Sohr Biss: By simply saving for a rainy day, Chile has weathered the global financial storm"},{"date": "2009-02-13T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Beijing's Securities Times knew what to make of it. State-owned Chinalco's $20bn investment in Rio Tinto would \"contain and control pricing power monopolised by the multinational companies,\" it said. Quite; that's one reason why the deal sucks from the point of view of Rio's shareholders.Rio, naturally, tried to allay these fears by talking about \"clear governance arrangements and continued commercial marketing of joint venture product.\" It spoiled the effect, though, by saying that one of two non-executive directors nominated by Chinalco would be regarded as \"independent\". When the language is being strangled on day one, the shareholders are right to be afraid about the influence of the biggest customer, China.Rio made two other defences. It pointed to the premium prices Chinalco is supposedly paying for its investment in nine mines. But nobody really knows a decent price these days for, say, a copper mine in Chile. Maybe Chinalco is paying over the odds, but the analysts were not blown away - good, but not a knockout, was the general verdict.Rio's other argument is that a rights issue to raise $20bn would have been impossible. That is probably right. You don't have to be David Mayhew, top-drawer JP Morgan Cazenove corporate broker and Rio non-executive, to know that assembling \u00a314bn of underwriting capacity is a non-starter. But, Rio doesn't need $20bn at this stage. Half that sum would do - and a rights issue of that size looks do-able. And, if a drawn-out rights issue doesn't offer sufficient certainty, why not offer the convertible bonds to the shareholders? A coupon of 9.5% is attractive. Throw in the disposal of a few non-core mines and Rio would be a long way towards financial security.Will the rebellion succeed? Brave words are one thing; voting down a major fundraising, and presumably sacking half the board, is another. This time, though, the anger may last. At Barclays, fund managers had no choice but to hold their nose and back the Middle Eastern fundraising because the bank would have been in a pickle without its cash. Rio, by contrast, would have time to make alternative arrangements.In fact, Australian politicians may present a more formidable obstacle. Chinalco would own 18% of Rio if its convertible bonds become equity, breaching a 15% cap imposed only last year. That's plain cheeky on Rio's part.Pay rises all round at the Financial Services Authority, then? Well, not exactly. A pot of \u00a310m will be set aside to recruit \"quality supervisors and supervisory support\". The FSA thinks it has a few individuals who fit this description but would like some more. Not too many, mind - the emphasis will be on quality not quantity, says chief executive Hector Sants.The FSA's timing - in the middle of a row about the supervision of HBOS - is not perfect, but it is hard to dispute the sense of what it is doing. If we want better financial regulation, we have no choice but to pay for it. Strictly speaking, the FSA's coffers are filled by the firms it regulates. But, given that most of us are investors in the biggest firms, either as taxpayer-owners or through pension schemes, it amounts to the same thing.However, regulation on the cheap, - a rough summary of the FSA's first decade - has to end. A bigger budget won't guarantee a better performance, but it's part of the package. Nor do pay levels at the FSA seem excessive by City standards. A salary of \u00a3100,000 or thereabouts for a lead supervisory manager should not cause jaws to drop.Sants did not venture far into the dangerous territory of Sir James Crosby's departure as vice-chairman. But Crosby should never have been appointed to the board in 2004 since he was chief executive of HBOS, a major regulated firm, at the time. And it would be dumb to conclude from the saga that ex-bankers should not serve at the FSA. Somebody has to provide the financial expertise. As long as there is also proper consumer representation, that should not be controversial.It's only roughly true that BT's shares yesterday hit their lowest level since privatisation in 1984, since the price ignores the demerger of O2 a few years ago. But a sub-100p share price still feels awful. Surely it can't go lower, you might think. Unfortunately, the uncertainties pile up. We don't know the size of the (inevitable) dividend cut, the size of the next write-down on IT contracts or the size of the rise in pension contributions. A quarter of a century after flotation, the outlook remains cloudy.nils.pratley@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "Mining", "Regulators", "Banking", "BT", "Telecoms", "Business"], "title": "Nils Pratley: Rio Tinto risks running into eastern block"},{"date": "2009-03-24T11:43:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Gordon Brown will today continue efforts to secure a coordinated world response to the economic downturn at next week's G20 summit in London, meeting global bank chiefs, addressing MEPs and embarking on a foreign visit.The prime minister will take part in a debate on the crisis at the European parliament in Strasbourg on the first leg of a tour that will also take in New York, Brazil and Chile.Brown, who yesterday spoke to the US president, Barack Obama, about the impending gathering of leading nations, was starting the day by meeting international banking chiefs at Downing Street with the chancellor, Alistair Darling.Chief executives from major countries across the world will be urged to restore lending both in the UK and globally and warned of the risks to the global economy of a return to protectionism.The Financial Services Authority chairman, Lord Turner, will present them with his reform proposals for banking regulation, which Brown has promoted as a blueprint for other nations.Brown's speech to MEPs, his first such address as prime minister, comes days after a summit of EU leaders backed a number of emergency measures, including doubling support available to struggling former eastern bloc economies.Last week's European council also agreed a further $100bn (\u00a369bn) loan to the International Monetary Fund for emergency bail-outs in the developing world and a \u20ac5bn (\u00a34.7bn) package of spending on renewable energy and broadband.Brown told MPs yesterday that EU leaders had made proposals to \"reshape the global financial and trading system\" and do what was necessary to build economic recovery across the world, including rejecting protectionism, \"that history tells us in the end protects no one\".\"The council was clear that by acting together the EU can put its financial sector on a sound footing, get credit flowing to the real economy and protect its citizens from the worst impacts of this crisis,\" he said.The G20 was top of the agenda when Brown and Obama enjoyed what the White House called a productive 25-minute discussion yesterday \u2013 which Washington hopes to repeat before the president travels to the UK.Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan were also discussed by the two men, who met face-to-face earlier this month when Brown became the first European leader to visit the new president.Brown hopes to use the gathering of leading nations to forge a \"global new deal\" although the US administration has said the president was not seeking to negotiate \"specific commitments\".Downing Street defended the prime minister's extended tour, insisting that Latin American countries would \"play a very important role\" in fighting the economic downturn.\"It is crucial that they are part of the debate about how we deal with the ongoing difficulties in the international economy,\" his spokesman told reporters.Among the leaders Brown is expected to meet on the trip is Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, who is expected to raise the issue of the Falkland islands with him.Fern\u00e1ndez has made the issue of the islands a personal priority, announcing in her inaugural speech that Argentina's sovereignty was non-negotiable and repeating the claim on the 26th anniversary of the 1982 invasion last year.She is expected to use the opportunity of meeting Brown to set out her position on the islands, which were restored to UK rule after a war which cost the lives of 255 British service personnel.Brown's spokesman confirmed that the pair were expected to meet but added that it would \"come as no surprise to anybody that our position on the sovereignty of the Falkland islands has and will remain unchanged\".", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Gordon Brown", "Recession", "Global recession", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "US news", "European Union", "Banking", "Business", "Chile"], "title": "Gordon Brown continues push for worldwide deal on economy"},{"date": "2009-03-29T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Why did you choose Saturday Night Fever as the subject of Peralta's obsession?Saturday Night Fever was a huge success in Santiago, so it was a cultural reference point. Tony Manero achieves the American dream through dancing, and Ra\u00fal Peralta thinks that is a possibility for him. The problems begin when he tries to transport that dream into his own reality. Is the film intended to be a comment on the Americanisation of Chile?The film is a portrait of a particular character in a unique situation, but, yes, Peralta's behaviour is also intended to be a metaphor for Chile under Pinochet: Peralta wants to be as similar as possible to some foreign icon just as Chile under Pinochet was trying to be like America. Peralta's impunity also replicates the impunity of the government back then. How have audiences responded to the film?In Chile audiences were very polarised: people loved it or hated it. But in Japan they thought it was a comedy and laughed the entire time. What does John Travolta think about the film?He wrote a letter to us saying he was very glad that we'd been having so much success with it. He was supposed to come and see it at a screening in LA but then this tragedy with his son happened so he didn't attend. \u2022 Tony Manero (18) opens on 10 April", "tags": ["World cinema", "Drama", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Imogen Carter speaks to the Chilean director of Tony Manero"},{"date": "2009-03-27T19:09:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Britain \u2014 and the Tories in particular \u2014 have long enjoyed strong links with Chile.A British admiral, Thomas Cochrane, was hailed by Margaret Thatcher as the man who liberated Chile from Spanish rule.Thatcher herself did her bit for Anglo-Chilean relations when she took tea with the former dictator, Augusto Pinochet, after he was arrested in Britain in 1998. The former prime minister, who was repaying Pinochet's support for Britain during the Falklands War in 1982, glossed over the 3,000 Chileans who disappeared during his dictatorship.But Anglo-Chilean relations entered a new phase this afternoon when Chile's socialist president \u2014 a symbol of the modern democracy after she was tortured by Pinochet's forces in 1975 \u2014 inadvertently waded into British politics.Without realising it, Michelle Bachelet endorsed the Tories' central criticism of Gordon Brown's handling of the financial crisis. This is that Brown failed to \"fix the roof while the sun was shining\" \u2014 the Tories' way of saying that the prime minister failed to prepare Britain's public finances during the benign years for the inevitable economic downturn.Bachelet committed the diplomatic faux pas this afternoon as she stood alongside Gordon Brown at a press conference at the presidential palace, known as La Moneda, which was bombed by Pinochet's troops on the day he seized power in a coup in 1973. It was the first visit by a serving British prime minister to Chile.Asked about Chile's strong public finances, the president innocently spoke of how she had acted as a prudent saver. \"I would say that because of our decisions during the good times \u2014 we decided to save some money for the bad times \u2014 I would say that policy today is producing results. We developed our fiscal stimulus. We could make one of 2.8% of GDP. That is pretty hard for a country like ours.\"David Cameron will no doubt be chuckling. But he should be careful about claiming Bachelet as an ally.The socialist is a formidable political fighter who will probably be mortified that she may have embarrassed a fellow centre left leader. She made a point of echoing New Labour's famous line yesterday about the importance of focusing on \"education, education, education\".Bachelet showed her mettle during the 2006 election campaign when her conservative opponent Sebastian Pinera tried to patronise her as being too nice. The single mother of three said during a live television exchange: \"I've been through labour three times, so I'm in really good shape for the months ahead.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Politics", "World news", "UK news", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Nicholas Watt: Michelle Bachelet's faux pas should not give David Cameron comfort"},{"date": "2009-03-28T10:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile has stood out in Latin America \u2013 until now, at least \u2013 for the solidity of its economy. The country has applied the old biblical recipe of saving during the fat years in anticipation of the lean (also known as countercyclical policies).Like the rest of the region, Chile benefited from the recent boom in raw materials, specifically from a record copper price. The countercyclical approach was partly forced on the government because it could not risk pumping the windfall earnings into the economy for fear of creating massive inflation. As a result, Chile managed to save some $22bn, equivalent to six months' export earnings, in a sovereign fund, which is now providing a comfortable cushion from the shock of the international crisis.  The one word the governing and entrepreneurial elite dread is protectionism. Chile has signed more free trade agreements than any other country in the world, with 54 major nations in Asia and Europe, and including the EU and the US. International trade accounts for more than 60 per cent of its GDP. The most dynamic sector of its economy, where the highest wages are paid, is linked to the external market. So the first and greatest worry for Chilean business and workers would be protectionist policies, coming on top of reduced demand.A second, equally grave, concern is the danger that foreign investment may slow down or even dry up. Foreign mining companies, for example, account for a major share of mineral exports. Lower or no outside investment would mean lower export growth and fewer jobs as well as the loss of technology expertise. In the 1970s, Chile was already a prime laboratory for the neoliberal policies applied later in many countries. The complete deregulation of the financial markets and the systematic reduction of the state started immediately after the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet imposed its brutally repressive rule in 1973. Under the guidance of Milton Friedman and the Chicago school of economics, Chilean technocrats applied shock tactics. Using the criteria of its comparative advantages, Chile moved from a protected to a wide open economy. Many of its fledging industries disappeared while raw materials and agricultural products prospered. The hastily deregulated financial system collapsed spectacularly in 1982, and the huge debts of the private banks were absorbed by \u2013 what else? \u2013 the state. It was in many ways an anticipation of what has now happened to the international banking system. The Chilean solution to a de facto nationalisation of the banks was to create \"A\" and \"B\" shares. \"A\" group shareholders, the former owners, received no dividends until the new \"B\" share owners were fully reimbursed, which took some 15 years.  Ever since, the Chilean banking system has operated under a number of restrictions. Speculative capital was long curbed by reserve requirements, and private pension schemes are limited in the amounts they can invest abroad. With the restoration of democracy in 1990 some of the more blatant injustices began to be redressed \u2013 but without changing the essentials of the previous economic policies of open trade, including the lowest tariff barriers in the region. Chile now holds two contradictory records: it has been more successful than any other country in the region in reducing poverty; and it ranks among the most inequitable nations in the world. The rest of Latin America, like Chile, is better prepared to resist the economic downturn than on previous occasions. The recent high prices for its raw materials \u2013 soya, wheat, wood pulp, oil, gas, and iron, among others \u2013 has allowed it to build up reserves. Now their concern is that the rich economies should not exacerbate the crisis by closing down credit and investment in the developing world. \u2022 In association with the Global Policy Institute and the London Office of the Friedrich Ebert Foundation, Comment is Free and Germany's Zeit-Online are running a series of commentaries from countries not invited to the G20 summit. Look out for further views in the next week.", "tags": ["G20", "Chile", "Global recession", "Global economy"], "title": "Ra\u00fal David Sohr Biss: By simply saving for a rainy day, Chile has weathered the global financial storm"},{"date": "2009-02-13T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Beijing's Securities Times knew what to make of it. State-owned Chinalco's $20bn investment in Rio Tinto would \"contain and control pricing power monopolised by the multinational companies,\" it said. Quite; that's one reason why the deal sucks from the point of view of Rio's shareholders.Rio, naturally, tried to allay these fears by talking about \"clear governance arrangements and continued commercial marketing of joint venture product.\" It spoiled the effect, though, by saying that one of two non-executive directors nominated by Chinalco would be regarded as \"independent\". When the language is being strangled on day one, the shareholders are right to be afraid about the influence of the biggest customer, China.Rio made two other defences. It pointed to the premium prices Chinalco is supposedly paying for its investment in nine mines. But nobody really knows a decent price these days for, say, a copper mine in Chile. Maybe Chinalco is paying over the odds, but the analysts were not blown away - good, but not a knockout, was the general verdict.Rio's other argument is that a rights issue to raise $20bn would have been impossible. That is probably right. You don't have to be David Mayhew, top-drawer JP Morgan Cazenove corporate broker and Rio non-executive, to know that assembling \u00a314bn of underwriting capacity is a non-starter. But, Rio doesn't need $20bn at this stage. Half that sum would do - and a rights issue of that size looks do-able. And, if a drawn-out rights issue doesn't offer sufficient certainty, why not offer the convertible bonds to the shareholders? A coupon of 9.5% is attractive. Throw in the disposal of a few non-core mines and Rio would be a long way towards financial security.Will the rebellion succeed? Brave words are one thing; voting down a major fundraising, and presumably sacking half the board, is another. This time, though, the anger may last. At Barclays, fund managers had no choice but to hold their nose and back the Middle Eastern fundraising because the bank would have been in a pickle without its cash. Rio, by contrast, would have time to make alternative arrangements.In fact, Australian politicians may present a more formidable obstacle. Chinalco would own 18% of Rio if its convertible bonds become equity, breaching a 15% cap imposed only last year. That's plain cheeky on Rio's part.Pay rises all round at the Financial Services Authority, then? Well, not exactly. A pot of \u00a310m will be set aside to recruit \"quality supervisors and supervisory support\". The FSA thinks it has a few individuals who fit this description but would like some more. Not too many, mind - the emphasis will be on quality not quantity, says chief executive Hector Sants.The FSA's timing - in the middle of a row about the supervision of HBOS - is not perfect, but it is hard to dispute the sense of what it is doing. If we want better financial regulation, we have no choice but to pay for it. Strictly speaking, the FSA's coffers are filled by the firms it regulates. But, given that most of us are investors in the biggest firms, either as taxpayer-owners or through pension schemes, it amounts to the same thing.However, regulation on the cheap, - a rough summary of the FSA's first decade - has to end. A bigger budget won't guarantee a better performance, but it's part of the package. Nor do pay levels at the FSA seem excessive by City standards. A salary of \u00a3100,000 or thereabouts for a lead supervisory manager should not cause jaws to drop.Sants did not venture far into the dangerous territory of Sir James Crosby's departure as vice-chairman. But Crosby should never have been appointed to the board in 2004 since he was chief executive of HBOS, a major regulated firm, at the time. And it would be dumb to conclude from the saga that ex-bankers should not serve at the FSA. Somebody has to provide the financial expertise. As long as there is also proper consumer representation, that should not be controversial.It's only roughly true that BT's shares yesterday hit their lowest level since privatisation in 1984, since the price ignores the demerger of O2 a few years ago. But a sub-100p share price still feels awful. Surely it can't go lower, you might think. Unfortunately, the uncertainties pile up. We don't know the size of the (inevitable) dividend cut, the size of the next write-down on IT contracts or the size of the rise in pension contributions. A quarter of a century after flotation, the outlook remains cloudy.nils.pratley@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "Mining", "Regulators", "Banking", "BT", "Telecoms", "Business"], "title": "Nils Pratley: Rio Tinto risks running into eastern block"},{"date": "2009-03-24T11:43:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Gordon Brown will today continue efforts to secure a coordinated world response to the economic downturn at next week's G20 summit in London, meeting global bank chiefs, addressing MEPs and embarking on a foreign visit.The prime minister will take part in a debate on the crisis at the European parliament in Strasbourg on the first leg of a tour that will also take in New York, Brazil and Chile.Brown, who yesterday spoke to the US president, Barack Obama, about the impending gathering of leading nations, was starting the day by meeting international banking chiefs at Downing Street with the chancellor, Alistair Darling.Chief executives from major countries across the world will be urged to restore lending both in the UK and globally and warned of the risks to the global economy of a return to protectionism.The Financial Services Authority chairman, Lord Turner, will present them with his reform proposals for banking regulation, which Brown has promoted as a blueprint for other nations.Brown's speech to MEPs, his first such address as prime minister, comes days after a summit of EU leaders backed a number of emergency measures, including doubling support available to struggling former eastern bloc economies.Last week's European council also agreed a further $100bn (\u00a369bn) loan to the International Monetary Fund for emergency bail-outs in the developing world and a \u20ac5bn (\u00a34.7bn) package of spending on renewable energy and broadband.Brown told MPs yesterday that EU leaders had made proposals to \"reshape the global financial and trading system\" and do what was necessary to build economic recovery across the world, including rejecting protectionism, \"that history tells us in the end protects no one\".\"The council was clear that by acting together the EU can put its financial sector on a sound footing, get credit flowing to the real economy and protect its citizens from the worst impacts of this crisis,\" he said.The G20 was top of the agenda when Brown and Obama enjoyed what the White House called a productive 25-minute discussion yesterday \u2013 which Washington hopes to repeat before the president travels to the UK.Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan were also discussed by the two men, who met face-to-face earlier this month when Brown became the first European leader to visit the new president.Brown hopes to use the gathering of leading nations to forge a \"global new deal\" although the US administration has said the president was not seeking to negotiate \"specific commitments\".Downing Street defended the prime minister's extended tour, insisting that Latin American countries would \"play a very important role\" in fighting the economic downturn.\"It is crucial that they are part of the debate about how we deal with the ongoing difficulties in the international economy,\" his spokesman told reporters.Among the leaders Brown is expected to meet on the trip is Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, who is expected to raise the issue of the Falkland islands with him.Fern\u00e1ndez has made the issue of the islands a personal priority, announcing in her inaugural speech that Argentina's sovereignty was non-negotiable and repeating the claim on the 26th anniversary of the 1982 invasion last year.She is expected to use the opportunity of meeting Brown to set out her position on the islands, which were restored to UK rule after a war which cost the lives of 255 British service personnel.Brown's spokesman confirmed that the pair were expected to meet but added that it would \"come as no surprise to anybody that our position on the sovereignty of the Falkland islands has and will remain unchanged\".", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Gordon Brown", "Recession", "Global recession", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "US news", "European Union", "Banking", "Business", "Chile"], "title": "Gordon Brown continues push for worldwide deal on economy"},{"date": "2009-03-29T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Why did you choose Saturday Night Fever as the subject of Peralta's obsession?Saturday Night Fever was a huge success in Santiago, so it was a cultural reference point. Tony Manero achieves the American dream through dancing, and Ra\u00fal Peralta thinks that is a possibility for him. The problems begin when he tries to transport that dream into his own reality. Is the film intended to be a comment on the Americanisation of Chile?The film is a portrait of a particular character in a unique situation, but, yes, Peralta's behaviour is also intended to be a metaphor for Chile under Pinochet: Peralta wants to be as similar as possible to some foreign icon just as Chile under Pinochet was trying to be like America. Peralta's impunity also replicates the impunity of the government back then. How have audiences responded to the film?In Chile audiences were very polarised: people loved it or hated it. But in Japan they thought it was a comedy and laughed the entire time. What does John Travolta think about the film?He wrote a letter to us saying he was very glad that we'd been having so much success with it. He was supposed to come and see it at a screening in LA but then this tragedy with his son happened so he didn't attend. \u2022 Tony Manero (18) opens on 10 April", "tags": ["World cinema", "Drama", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Imogen Carter speaks to the Chilean director of Tony Manero"},{"date": "2009-03-27T19:09:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Britain \u2014 and the Tories in particular \u2014 have long enjoyed strong links with Chile.A British admiral, Thomas Cochrane, was hailed by Margaret Thatcher as the man who liberated Chile from Spanish rule.Thatcher herself did her bit for Anglo-Chilean relations when she took tea with the former dictator, Augusto Pinochet, after he was arrested in Britain in 1998. The former prime minister, who was repaying Pinochet's support for Britain during the Falklands War in 1982, glossed over the 3,000 Chileans who disappeared during his dictatorship.But Anglo-Chilean relations entered a new phase this afternoon when Chile's socialist president \u2014 a symbol of the modern democracy after she was tortured by Pinochet's forces in 1975 \u2014 inadvertently waded into British politics.Without realising it, Michelle Bachelet endorsed the Tories' central criticism of Gordon Brown's handling of the financial crisis. This is that Brown failed to \"fix the roof while the sun was shining\" \u2014 the Tories' way of saying that the prime minister failed to prepare Britain's public finances during the benign years for the inevitable economic downturn.Bachelet committed the diplomatic faux pas this afternoon as she stood alongside Gordon Brown at a press conference at the presidential palace, known as La Moneda, which was bombed by Pinochet's troops on the day he seized power in a coup in 1973. It was the first visit by a serving British prime minister to Chile.Asked about Chile's strong public finances, the president innocently spoke of how she had acted as a prudent saver. \"I would say that because of our decisions during the good times \u2014 we decided to save some money for the bad times \u2014 I would say that policy today is producing results. We developed our fiscal stimulus. We could make one of 2.8% of GDP. That is pretty hard for a country like ours.\"David Cameron will no doubt be chuckling. But he should be careful about claiming Bachelet as an ally.The socialist is a formidable political fighter who will probably be mortified that she may have embarrassed a fellow centre left leader. She made a point of echoing New Labour's famous line yesterday about the importance of focusing on \"education, education, education\".Bachelet showed her mettle during the 2006 election campaign when her conservative opponent Sebastian Pinera tried to patronise her as being too nice. The single mother of three said during a live television exchange: \"I've been through labour three times, so I'm in really good shape for the months ahead.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Politics", "World news", "UK news", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Nicholas Watt: Michelle Bachelet's faux pas should not give David Cameron comfort"},{"date": "2009-03-27T18:13:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Gordon Brown today distanced himself from Britain's former close relationship with Augusto Pinochet as he paid a warm tribute to Chilean president Michelle Bachelet, who was tortured by the regime of the late Chilean dictator.In the first visit by a serving British prime minister to Chile, Brown praised the socialist president for her courage. Bachelet was kidnapped and tortured by forces loyal to Pinochet in 1975.Brown's approach was in stark contrast to that of Margaret Thatcher who invited Pinochet for tea in London after his arrest in 1998. Pinochet was arrested at the request of a Spanish judge investigating the disappearance of Spanish citizens during the Pinochet era.\"We have a duty to be responsible. We support democratic governments,\" Brown was to say today on the last stage of his five-day South America tour.\"President Bachelet was very courageous and brave,\" he said of the experience of the president whose father and boyfriend were tortured to death. \"I will be telling her, building on what I said yesterday [when the prime minister rejected torture but voiced support for MI5], that Britain abhors torture.\"Brown was using his meeting with Bachelet to reiterate comments made in Brazil yesterday in relation to the Binyam Mohamed affair \u2014 that the government would not condone nor endorse torture.In a tour of the presidential palace in Santiago, Brown visited the room where the socialist president, Salvador Allende, shot himself as Pinochet's troops marched on the palace in 1973. On the day of the coup Pinochet ordered the air force to bomb the palace.Brown recalled the impact of the coup and the death of Allende, a hero of the left. \"I remember the events in Chile in 1973. I was a student at the time and remember many Chilean students coming to Britain.\"Britain has historically enjoyed strong relations with Chile \u2014 Bernardo O'Higgins, who had Scottish roots, is known as the Liberator for his role in freeing the country from Spanish rule. But Anglo-Chilean links became controversial during the Falklands war when the Pinochet dictatorship offered intelligence support.", "tags": ["Gordon Brown", "Chile", "Torture", "UK news", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Brown praises Chilean president for her courage under Pinochet regime's torturers"},{"date": "2009-03-28T10:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile has stood out in Latin America \u2013 until now, at least \u2013 for the solidity of its economy. The country has applied the old biblical recipe of saving during the fat years in anticipation of the lean (also known as countercyclical policies).Like the rest of the region, Chile benefited from the recent boom in raw materials, specifically from a record copper price. The countercyclical approach was partly forced on the government because it could not risk pumping the windfall earnings into the economy for fear of creating massive inflation. As a result, Chile managed to save some $22bn, equivalent to six months' export earnings, in a sovereign fund, which is now providing a comfortable cushion from the shock of the international crisis.  The one word the governing and entrepreneurial elite dread is protectionism. Chile has signed more free trade agreements than any other country in the world, with 54 major nations in Asia and Europe, and including the EU and the US. International trade accounts for more than 60 per cent of its GDP. The most dynamic sector of its economy, where the highest wages are paid, is linked to the external market. So the first and greatest worry for Chilean business and workers would be protectionist policies, coming on top of reduced demand.A second, equally grave, concern is the danger that foreign investment may slow down or even dry up. Foreign mining companies, for example, account for a major share of mineral exports. Lower or no outside investment would mean lower export growth and fewer jobs as well as the loss of technology expertise. In the 1970s, Chile was already a prime laboratory for the neoliberal policies applied later in many countries. The complete deregulation of the financial markets and the systematic reduction of the state started immediately after the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet imposed its brutally repressive rule in 1973. Under the guidance of Milton Friedman and the Chicago school of economics, Chilean technocrats applied shock tactics. Using the criteria of its comparative advantages, Chile moved from a protected to a wide open economy. Many of its fledging industries disappeared while raw materials and agricultural products prospered. The hastily deregulated financial system collapsed spectacularly in 1982, and the huge debts of the private banks were absorbed by \u2013 what else? \u2013 the state. It was in many ways an anticipation of what has now happened to the international banking system. The Chilean solution to a de facto nationalisation of the banks was to create \"A\" and \"B\" shares. \"A\" group shareholders, the former owners, received no dividends until the new \"B\" share owners were fully reimbursed, which took some 15 years.  Ever since, the Chilean banking system has operated under a number of restrictions. Speculative capital was long curbed by reserve requirements, and private pension schemes are limited in the amounts they can invest abroad. With the restoration of democracy in 1990 some of the more blatant injustices began to be redressed \u2013 but without changing the essentials of the previous economic policies of open trade, including the lowest tariff barriers in the region. Chile now holds two contradictory records: it has been more successful than any other country in the region in reducing poverty; and it ranks among the most inequitable nations in the world. The rest of Latin America, like Chile, is better prepared to resist the economic downturn than on previous occasions. The recent high prices for its raw materials \u2013 soya, wheat, wood pulp, oil, gas, and iron, among others \u2013 has allowed it to build up reserves. Now their concern is that the rich economies should not exacerbate the crisis by closing down credit and investment in the developing world. \u2022 In association with the Global Policy Institute and the London Office of the Friedrich Ebert Foundation, Comment is Free and Germany's Zeit-Online are running a series of commentaries from countries not invited to the G20 summit. Look out for further views in the next week.", "tags": ["G20", "Chile", "Global recession", "Global economy"], "title": "Ra\u00fal David Sohr Biss: By simply saving for a rainy day, Chile has weathered the global financial storm"},{"date": "2009-02-13T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Beijing's Securities Times knew what to make of it. State-owned Chinalco's $20bn investment in Rio Tinto would \"contain and control pricing power monopolised by the multinational companies,\" it said. Quite; that's one reason why the deal sucks from the point of view of Rio's shareholders.Rio, naturally, tried to allay these fears by talking about \"clear governance arrangements and continued commercial marketing of joint venture product.\" It spoiled the effect, though, by saying that one of two non-executive directors nominated by Chinalco would be regarded as \"independent\". When the language is being strangled on day one, the shareholders are right to be afraid about the influence of the biggest customer, China.Rio made two other defences. It pointed to the premium prices Chinalco is supposedly paying for its investment in nine mines. But nobody really knows a decent price these days for, say, a copper mine in Chile. Maybe Chinalco is paying over the odds, but the analysts were not blown away - good, but not a knockout, was the general verdict.Rio's other argument is that a rights issue to raise $20bn would have been impossible. That is probably right. You don't have to be David Mayhew, top-drawer JP Morgan Cazenove corporate broker and Rio non-executive, to know that assembling \u00a314bn of underwriting capacity is a non-starter. But, Rio doesn't need $20bn at this stage. Half that sum would do - and a rights issue of that size looks do-able. And, if a drawn-out rights issue doesn't offer sufficient certainty, why not offer the convertible bonds to the shareholders? A coupon of 9.5% is attractive. Throw in the disposal of a few non-core mines and Rio would be a long way towards financial security.Will the rebellion succeed? Brave words are one thing; voting down a major fundraising, and presumably sacking half the board, is another. This time, though, the anger may last. At Barclays, fund managers had no choice but to hold their nose and back the Middle Eastern fundraising because the bank would have been in a pickle without its cash. Rio, by contrast, would have time to make alternative arrangements.In fact, Australian politicians may present a more formidable obstacle. Chinalco would own 18% of Rio if its convertible bonds become equity, breaching a 15% cap imposed only last year. That's plain cheeky on Rio's part.Pay rises all round at the Financial Services Authority, then? Well, not exactly. A pot of \u00a310m will be set aside to recruit \"quality supervisors and supervisory support\". The FSA thinks it has a few individuals who fit this description but would like some more. Not too many, mind - the emphasis will be on quality not quantity, says chief executive Hector Sants.The FSA's timing - in the middle of a row about the supervision of HBOS - is not perfect, but it is hard to dispute the sense of what it is doing. If we want better financial regulation, we have no choice but to pay for it. Strictly speaking, the FSA's coffers are filled by the firms it regulates. But, given that most of us are investors in the biggest firms, either as taxpayer-owners or through pension schemes, it amounts to the same thing.However, regulation on the cheap, - a rough summary of the FSA's first decade - has to end. A bigger budget won't guarantee a better performance, but it's part of the package. Nor do pay levels at the FSA seem excessive by City standards. A salary of \u00a3100,000 or thereabouts for a lead supervisory manager should not cause jaws to drop.Sants did not venture far into the dangerous territory of Sir James Crosby's departure as vice-chairman. But Crosby should never have been appointed to the board in 2004 since he was chief executive of HBOS, a major regulated firm, at the time. And it would be dumb to conclude from the saga that ex-bankers should not serve at the FSA. Somebody has to provide the financial expertise. As long as there is also proper consumer representation, that should not be controversial.It's only roughly true that BT's shares yesterday hit their lowest level since privatisation in 1984, since the price ignores the demerger of O2 a few years ago. But a sub-100p share price still feels awful. Surely it can't go lower, you might think. Unfortunately, the uncertainties pile up. We don't know the size of the (inevitable) dividend cut, the size of the next write-down on IT contracts or the size of the rise in pension contributions. A quarter of a century after flotation, the outlook remains cloudy.nils.pratley@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "Mining", "Regulators", "Banking", "BT", "Telecoms", "Business"], "title": "Nils Pratley: Rio Tinto risks running into eastern block"},{"date": "2009-03-24T11:43:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Gordon Brown will today continue efforts to secure a coordinated world response to the economic downturn at next week's G20 summit in London, meeting global bank chiefs, addressing MEPs and embarking on a foreign visit.The prime minister will take part in a debate on the crisis at the European parliament in Strasbourg on the first leg of a tour that will also take in New York, Brazil and Chile.Brown, who yesterday spoke to the US president, Barack Obama, about the impending gathering of leading nations, was starting the day by meeting international banking chiefs at Downing Street with the chancellor, Alistair Darling.Chief executives from major countries across the world will be urged to restore lending both in the UK and globally and warned of the risks to the global economy of a return to protectionism.The Financial Services Authority chairman, Lord Turner, will present them with his reform proposals for banking regulation, which Brown has promoted as a blueprint for other nations.Brown's speech to MEPs, his first such address as prime minister, comes days after a summit of EU leaders backed a number of emergency measures, including doubling support available to struggling former eastern bloc economies.Last week's European council also agreed a further $100bn (\u00a369bn) loan to the International Monetary Fund for emergency bail-outs in the developing world and a \u20ac5bn (\u00a34.7bn) package of spending on renewable energy and broadband.Brown told MPs yesterday that EU leaders had made proposals to \"reshape the global financial and trading system\" and do what was necessary to build economic recovery across the world, including rejecting protectionism, \"that history tells us in the end protects no one\".\"The council was clear that by acting together the EU can put its financial sector on a sound footing, get credit flowing to the real economy and protect its citizens from the worst impacts of this crisis,\" he said.The G20 was top of the agenda when Brown and Obama enjoyed what the White House called a productive 25-minute discussion yesterday \u2013 which Washington hopes to repeat before the president travels to the UK.Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan were also discussed by the two men, who met face-to-face earlier this month when Brown became the first European leader to visit the new president.Brown hopes to use the gathering of leading nations to forge a \"global new deal\" although the US administration has said the president was not seeking to negotiate \"specific commitments\".Downing Street defended the prime minister's extended tour, insisting that Latin American countries would \"play a very important role\" in fighting the economic downturn.\"It is crucial that they are part of the debate about how we deal with the ongoing difficulties in the international economy,\" his spokesman told reporters.Among the leaders Brown is expected to meet on the trip is Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, who is expected to raise the issue of the Falkland islands with him.Fern\u00e1ndez has made the issue of the islands a personal priority, announcing in her inaugural speech that Argentina's sovereignty was non-negotiable and repeating the claim on the 26th anniversary of the 1982 invasion last year.She is expected to use the opportunity of meeting Brown to set out her position on the islands, which were restored to UK rule after a war which cost the lives of 255 British service personnel.Brown's spokesman confirmed that the pair were expected to meet but added that it would \"come as no surprise to anybody that our position on the sovereignty of the Falkland islands has and will remain unchanged\".", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Gordon Brown", "Recession", "Global recession", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "US news", "European Union", "Banking", "Business", "Chile"], "title": "Gordon Brown continues push for worldwide deal on economy"},{"date": "2009-03-29T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Why did you choose Saturday Night Fever as the subject of Peralta's obsession?Saturday Night Fever was a huge success in Santiago, so it was a cultural reference point. Tony Manero achieves the American dream through dancing, and Ra\u00fal Peralta thinks that is a possibility for him. The problems begin when he tries to transport that dream into his own reality. Is the film intended to be a comment on the Americanisation of Chile?The film is a portrait of a particular character in a unique situation, but, yes, Peralta's behaviour is also intended to be a metaphor for Chile under Pinochet: Peralta wants to be as similar as possible to some foreign icon just as Chile under Pinochet was trying to be like America. Peralta's impunity also replicates the impunity of the government back then. How have audiences responded to the film?In Chile audiences were very polarised: people loved it or hated it. But in Japan they thought it was a comedy and laughed the entire time. What does John Travolta think about the film?He wrote a letter to us saying he was very glad that we'd been having so much success with it. He was supposed to come and see it at a screening in LA but then this tragedy with his son happened so he didn't attend. \u2022 Tony Manero (18) opens on 10 April", "tags": ["World cinema", "Drama", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Imogen Carter speaks to the Chilean director of Tony Manero"},{"date": "2009-03-27T19:09:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Britain \u2014 and the Tories in particular \u2014 have long enjoyed strong links with Chile.A British admiral, Thomas Cochrane, was hailed by Margaret Thatcher as the man who liberated Chile from Spanish rule.Thatcher herself did her bit for Anglo-Chilean relations when she took tea with the former dictator, Augusto Pinochet, after he was arrested in Britain in 1998. The former prime minister, who was repaying Pinochet's support for Britain during the Falklands War in 1982, glossed over the 3,000 Chileans who disappeared during his dictatorship.But Anglo-Chilean relations entered a new phase this afternoon when Chile's socialist president \u2014 a symbol of the modern democracy after she was tortured by Pinochet's forces in 1975 \u2014 inadvertently waded into British politics.Without realising it, Michelle Bachelet endorsed the Tories' central criticism of Gordon Brown's handling of the financial crisis. This is that Brown failed to \"fix the roof while the sun was shining\" \u2014 the Tories' way of saying that the prime minister failed to prepare Britain's public finances during the benign years for the inevitable economic downturn.Bachelet committed the diplomatic faux pas this afternoon as she stood alongside Gordon Brown at a press conference at the presidential palace, known as La Moneda, which was bombed by Pinochet's troops on the day he seized power in a coup in 1973. It was the first visit by a serving British prime minister to Chile.Asked about Chile's strong public finances, the president innocently spoke of how she had acted as a prudent saver. \"I would say that because of our decisions during the good times \u2014 we decided to save some money for the bad times \u2014 I would say that policy today is producing results. We developed our fiscal stimulus. We could make one of 2.8% of GDP. That is pretty hard for a country like ours.\"David Cameron will no doubt be chuckling. But he should be careful about claiming Bachelet as an ally.The socialist is a formidable political fighter who will probably be mortified that she may have embarrassed a fellow centre left leader. She made a point of echoing New Labour's famous line yesterday about the importance of focusing on \"education, education, education\".Bachelet showed her mettle during the 2006 election campaign when her conservative opponent Sebastian Pinera tried to patronise her as being too nice. The single mother of three said during a live television exchange: \"I've been through labour three times, so I'm in really good shape for the months ahead.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Politics", "World news", "UK news", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Nicholas Watt: Michelle Bachelet's faux pas should not give David Cameron comfort"},{"date": "2009-03-27T18:13:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Gordon Brown today distanced himself from Britain's former close relationship with Augusto Pinochet as he paid a warm tribute to Chilean president Michelle Bachelet, who was tortured by the regime of the late Chilean dictator.In the first visit by a serving British prime minister to Chile, Brown praised the socialist president for her courage. Bachelet was kidnapped and tortured by forces loyal to Pinochet in 1975.Brown's approach was in stark contrast to that of Margaret Thatcher who invited Pinochet for tea in London after his arrest in 1998. Pinochet was arrested at the request of a Spanish judge investigating the disappearance of Spanish citizens during the Pinochet era.\"We have a duty to be responsible. We support democratic governments,\" Brown was to say today on the last stage of his five-day South America tour.\"President Bachelet was very courageous and brave,\" he said of the experience of the president whose father and boyfriend were tortured to death. \"I will be telling her, building on what I said yesterday [when the prime minister rejected torture but voiced support for MI5], that Britain abhors torture.\"Brown was using his meeting with Bachelet to reiterate comments made in Brazil yesterday in relation to the Binyam Mohamed affair \u2014 that the government would not condone nor endorse torture.In a tour of the presidential palace in Santiago, Brown visited the room where the socialist president, Salvador Allende, shot himself as Pinochet's troops marched on the palace in 1973. On the day of the coup Pinochet ordered the air force to bomb the palace.Brown recalled the impact of the coup and the death of Allende, a hero of the left. \"I remember the events in Chile in 1973. I was a student at the time and remember many Chilean students coming to Britain.\"Britain has historically enjoyed strong relations with Chile \u2014 Bernardo O'Higgins, who had Scottish roots, is known as the Liberator for his role in freeing the country from Spanish rule. But Anglo-Chilean links became controversial during the Falklands war when the Pinochet dictatorship offered intelligence support.", "tags": ["Gordon Brown", "Chile", "Torture", "UK news", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Brown praises Chilean president for her courage under Pinochet regime's torturers"},{"date": "2009-02-23T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Authorities have begun an investigation into the mysterious disappearance of a treasure-laden ship after it ran into difficulties in the Magellan straits off the southern coast of ArgentinaThe ship, registered in Chile, was carrying more than nine tonnes of gold and silver worth at least \u00a314m when it hit a fierce storm in the channel. Waves of up to 10 metres forced the crew to evacuate. The seven-man crew of the Polar Mist left the engines running to avoid fuel pollution after they abandoned ship. A few hours later, a coastguard helicopter spotted a second boat approaching the distressed vessel. The Beagle, which is also registered in Chile, began to tug the 23 metre Polar Mist in the direction of the Argentine port of R\u00edo Gallegos. Coastguard authorities presumed its intentions were to rescue the ship. About 25 miles off shore, during the night, the troubled Mist Polar reportedly began listing from side to side. According to the tug's captain, it then sank beneath the waves, and the bullion is now lying on the seabed, 80 metres below the surface. The cargo was on a scheduled journey from two mines in the Patagonian province of Santa Cruz to the Chilean port of Punta Arenas. The gold and silver was destined for a refinery in Switzerland. The captains of the two clippers are said to be helping officials with their investigation. In the meantime, all other ships have been banned from entering the area where the Polar Mist allegedly went under. Efforts are due to get under way shortly to salvage the cargo.\"The case remains open,\" said Gerardo Caama\u00f1o, the judge overseeing the investigation.", "tags": ["World news", "Water transport"], "title": "Mystery as \u00a314m treasure ship disappears"},{"date": "2009-03-28T10:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile has stood out in Latin America \u2013 until now, at least \u2013 for the solidity of its economy. The country has applied the old biblical recipe of saving during the fat years in anticipation of the lean (also known as countercyclical policies).Like the rest of the region, Chile benefited from the recent boom in raw materials, specifically from a record copper price. The countercyclical approach was partly forced on the government because it could not risk pumping the windfall earnings into the economy for fear of creating massive inflation. As a result, Chile managed to save some $22bn, equivalent to six months' export earnings, in a sovereign fund, which is now providing a comfortable cushion from the shock of the international crisis.  The one word the governing and entrepreneurial elite dread is protectionism. Chile has signed more free trade agreements than any other country in the world, with 54 major nations in Asia and Europe, and including the EU and the US. International trade accounts for more than 60 per cent of its GDP. The most dynamic sector of its economy, where the highest wages are paid, is linked to the external market. So the first and greatest worry for Chilean business and workers would be protectionist policies, coming on top of reduced demand.A second, equally grave, concern is the danger that foreign investment may slow down or even dry up. Foreign mining companies, for example, account for a major share of mineral exports. Lower or no outside investment would mean lower export growth and fewer jobs as well as the loss of technology expertise. In the 1970s, Chile was already a prime laboratory for the neoliberal policies applied later in many countries. The complete deregulation of the financial markets and the systematic reduction of the state started immediately after the dictatorship of Augusto Pinochet imposed its brutally repressive rule in 1973. Under the guidance of Milton Friedman and the Chicago school of economics, Chilean technocrats applied shock tactics. Using the criteria of its comparative advantages, Chile moved from a protected to a wide open economy. Many of its fledging industries disappeared while raw materials and agricultural products prospered. The hastily deregulated financial system collapsed spectacularly in 1982, and the huge debts of the private banks were absorbed by \u2013 what else? \u2013 the state. It was in many ways an anticipation of what has now happened to the international banking system. The Chilean solution to a de facto nationalisation of the banks was to create \"A\" and \"B\" shares. \"A\" group shareholders, the former owners, received no dividends until the new \"B\" share owners were fully reimbursed, which took some 15 years.  Ever since, the Chilean banking system has operated under a number of restrictions. Speculative capital was long curbed by reserve requirements, and private pension schemes are limited in the amounts they can invest abroad. With the restoration of democracy in 1990 some of the more blatant injustices began to be redressed \u2013 but without changing the essentials of the previous economic policies of open trade, including the lowest tariff barriers in the region. Chile now holds two contradictory records: it has been more successful than any other country in the region in reducing poverty; and it ranks among the most inequitable nations in the world. The rest of Latin America, like Chile, is better prepared to resist the economic downturn than on previous occasions. The recent high prices for its raw materials \u2013 soya, wheat, wood pulp, oil, gas, and iron, among others \u2013 has allowed it to build up reserves. Now their concern is that the rich economies should not exacerbate the crisis by closing down credit and investment in the developing world. \u2022 In association with the Global Policy Institute and the London Office of the Friedrich Ebert Foundation, Comment is Free and Germany's Zeit-Online are running a series of commentaries from countries not invited to the G20 summit. Look out for further views in the next week.", "tags": ["G20", "Chile", "Global recession", "Global economy"], "title": "Ra\u00fal David Sohr Biss: By simply saving for a rainy day, Chile has weathered the global financial storm"},{"date": "2009-02-13T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Beijing's Securities Times knew what to make of it. State-owned Chinalco's $20bn investment in Rio Tinto would \"contain and control pricing power monopolised by the multinational companies,\" it said. Quite; that's one reason why the deal sucks from the point of view of Rio's shareholders.Rio, naturally, tried to allay these fears by talking about \"clear governance arrangements and continued commercial marketing of joint venture product.\" It spoiled the effect, though, by saying that one of two non-executive directors nominated by Chinalco would be regarded as \"independent\". When the language is being strangled on day one, the shareholders are right to be afraid about the influence of the biggest customer, China.Rio made two other defences. It pointed to the premium prices Chinalco is supposedly paying for its investment in nine mines. But nobody really knows a decent price these days for, say, a copper mine in Chile. Maybe Chinalco is paying over the odds, but the analysts were not blown away - good, but not a knockout, was the general verdict.Rio's other argument is that a rights issue to raise $20bn would have been impossible. That is probably right. You don't have to be David Mayhew, top-drawer JP Morgan Cazenove corporate broker and Rio non-executive, to know that assembling \u00a314bn of underwriting capacity is a non-starter. But, Rio doesn't need $20bn at this stage. Half that sum would do - and a rights issue of that size looks do-able. And, if a drawn-out rights issue doesn't offer sufficient certainty, why not offer the convertible bonds to the shareholders? A coupon of 9.5% is attractive. Throw in the disposal of a few non-core mines and Rio would be a long way towards financial security.Will the rebellion succeed? Brave words are one thing; voting down a major fundraising, and presumably sacking half the board, is another. This time, though, the anger may last. At Barclays, fund managers had no choice but to hold their nose and back the Middle Eastern fundraising because the bank would have been in a pickle without its cash. Rio, by contrast, would have time to make alternative arrangements.In fact, Australian politicians may present a more formidable obstacle. Chinalco would own 18% of Rio if its convertible bonds become equity, breaching a 15% cap imposed only last year. That's plain cheeky on Rio's part.Pay rises all round at the Financial Services Authority, then? Well, not exactly. A pot of \u00a310m will be set aside to recruit \"quality supervisors and supervisory support\". The FSA thinks it has a few individuals who fit this description but would like some more. Not too many, mind - the emphasis will be on quality not quantity, says chief executive Hector Sants.The FSA's timing - in the middle of a row about the supervision of HBOS - is not perfect, but it is hard to dispute the sense of what it is doing. If we want better financial regulation, we have no choice but to pay for it. Strictly speaking, the FSA's coffers are filled by the firms it regulates. But, given that most of us are investors in the biggest firms, either as taxpayer-owners or through pension schemes, it amounts to the same thing.However, regulation on the cheap, - a rough summary of the FSA's first decade - has to end. A bigger budget won't guarantee a better performance, but it's part of the package. Nor do pay levels at the FSA seem excessive by City standards. A salary of \u00a3100,000 or thereabouts for a lead supervisory manager should not cause jaws to drop.Sants did not venture far into the dangerous territory of Sir James Crosby's departure as vice-chairman. But Crosby should never have been appointed to the board in 2004 since he was chief executive of HBOS, a major regulated firm, at the time. And it would be dumb to conclude from the saga that ex-bankers should not serve at the FSA. Somebody has to provide the financial expertise. As long as there is also proper consumer representation, that should not be controversial.It's only roughly true that BT's shares yesterday hit their lowest level since privatisation in 1984, since the price ignores the demerger of O2 a few years ago. But a sub-100p share price still feels awful. Surely it can't go lower, you might think. Unfortunately, the uncertainties pile up. We don't know the size of the (inevitable) dividend cut, the size of the next write-down on IT contracts or the size of the rise in pension contributions. A quarter of a century after flotation, the outlook remains cloudy.nils.pratley@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Rio Tinto", "Mining", "Regulators", "Banking", "BT", "Telecoms", "Business"], "title": "Nils Pratley: Rio Tinto risks running into eastern block"},{"date": "2009-03-24T11:43:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Gordon Brown will today continue efforts to secure a coordinated world response to the economic downturn at next week's G20 summit in London, meeting global bank chiefs, addressing MEPs and embarking on a foreign visit.The prime minister will take part in a debate on the crisis at the European parliament in Strasbourg on the first leg of a tour that will also take in New York, Brazil and Chile.Brown, who yesterday spoke to the US president, Barack Obama, about the impending gathering of leading nations, was starting the day by meeting international banking chiefs at Downing Street with the chancellor, Alistair Darling.Chief executives from major countries across the world will be urged to restore lending both in the UK and globally and warned of the risks to the global economy of a return to protectionism.The Financial Services Authority chairman, Lord Turner, will present them with his reform proposals for banking regulation, which Brown has promoted as a blueprint for other nations.Brown's speech to MEPs, his first such address as prime minister, comes days after a summit of EU leaders backed a number of emergency measures, including doubling support available to struggling former eastern bloc economies.Last week's European council also agreed a further $100bn (\u00a369bn) loan to the International Monetary Fund for emergency bail-outs in the developing world and a \u20ac5bn (\u00a34.7bn) package of spending on renewable energy and broadband.Brown told MPs yesterday that EU leaders had made proposals to \"reshape the global financial and trading system\" and do what was necessary to build economic recovery across the world, including rejecting protectionism, \"that history tells us in the end protects no one\".\"The council was clear that by acting together the EU can put its financial sector on a sound footing, get credit flowing to the real economy and protect its citizens from the worst impacts of this crisis,\" he said.The G20 was top of the agenda when Brown and Obama enjoyed what the White House called a productive 25-minute discussion yesterday \u2013 which Washington hopes to repeat before the president travels to the UK.Iran, Afghanistan and Pakistan were also discussed by the two men, who met face-to-face earlier this month when Brown became the first European leader to visit the new president.Brown hopes to use the gathering of leading nations to forge a \"global new deal\" although the US administration has said the president was not seeking to negotiate \"specific commitments\".Downing Street defended the prime minister's extended tour, insisting that Latin American countries would \"play a very important role\" in fighting the economic downturn.\"It is crucial that they are part of the debate about how we deal with the ongoing difficulties in the international economy,\" his spokesman told reporters.Among the leaders Brown is expected to meet on the trip is Argentina's president, Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez, who is expected to raise the issue of the Falkland islands with him.Fern\u00e1ndez has made the issue of the islands a personal priority, announcing in her inaugural speech that Argentina's sovereignty was non-negotiable and repeating the claim on the 26th anniversary of the 1982 invasion last year.She is expected to use the opportunity of meeting Brown to set out her position on the islands, which were restored to UK rule after a war which cost the lives of 255 British service personnel.Brown's spokesman confirmed that the pair were expected to meet but added that it would \"come as no surprise to anybody that our position on the sovereignty of the Falkland islands has and will remain unchanged\".", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Gordon Brown", "Recession", "Global recession", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "US news", "European Union", "Banking", "Business", "Chile"], "title": "Gordon Brown continues push for worldwide deal on economy"},{"date": "2009-03-29T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Why did you choose Saturday Night Fever as the subject of Peralta's obsession?Saturday Night Fever was a huge success in Santiago, so it was a cultural reference point. Tony Manero achieves the American dream through dancing, and Ra\u00fal Peralta thinks that is a possibility for him. The problems begin when he tries to transport that dream into his own reality. Is the film intended to be a comment on the Americanisation of Chile?The film is a portrait of a particular character in a unique situation, but, yes, Peralta's behaviour is also intended to be a metaphor for Chile under Pinochet: Peralta wants to be as similar as possible to some foreign icon just as Chile under Pinochet was trying to be like America. Peralta's impunity also replicates the impunity of the government back then. How have audiences responded to the film?In Chile audiences were very polarised: people loved it or hated it. But in Japan they thought it was a comedy and laughed the entire time. What does John Travolta think about the film?He wrote a letter to us saying he was very glad that we'd been having so much success with it. He was supposed to come and see it at a screening in LA but then this tragedy with his son happened so he didn't attend. \u2022 Tony Manero (18) opens on 10 April", "tags": ["World cinema", "Drama", "Film", "Culture"], "title": "Imogen Carter speaks to the Chilean director of Tony Manero"},{"date": "2009-03-27T19:09:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Britain \u2014 and the Tories in particular \u2014 have long enjoyed strong links with Chile.A British admiral, Thomas Cochrane, was hailed by Margaret Thatcher as the man who liberated Chile from Spanish rule.Thatcher herself did her bit for Anglo-Chilean relations when she took tea with the former dictator, Augusto Pinochet, after he was arrested in Britain in 1998. The former prime minister, who was repaying Pinochet's support for Britain during the Falklands War in 1982, glossed over the 3,000 Chileans who disappeared during his dictatorship.But Anglo-Chilean relations entered a new phase this afternoon when Chile's socialist president \u2014 a symbol of the modern democracy after she was tortured by Pinochet's forces in 1975 \u2014 inadvertently waded into British politics.Without realising it, Michelle Bachelet endorsed the Tories' central criticism of Gordon Brown's handling of the financial crisis. This is that Brown failed to \"fix the roof while the sun was shining\" \u2014 the Tories' way of saying that the prime minister failed to prepare Britain's public finances during the benign years for the inevitable economic downturn.Bachelet committed the diplomatic faux pas this afternoon as she stood alongside Gordon Brown at a press conference at the presidential palace, known as La Moneda, which was bombed by Pinochet's troops on the day he seized power in a coup in 1973. It was the first visit by a serving British prime minister to Chile.Asked about Chile's strong public finances, the president innocently spoke of how she had acted as a prudent saver. \"I would say that because of our decisions during the good times \u2014 we decided to save some money for the bad times \u2014 I would say that policy today is producing results. We developed our fiscal stimulus. We could make one of 2.8% of GDP. That is pretty hard for a country like ours.\"David Cameron will no doubt be chuckling. But he should be careful about claiming Bachelet as an ally.The socialist is a formidable political fighter who will probably be mortified that she may have embarrassed a fellow centre left leader. She made a point of echoing New Labour's famous line yesterday about the importance of focusing on \"education, education, education\".Bachelet showed her mettle during the 2006 election campaign when her conservative opponent Sebastian Pinera tried to patronise her as being too nice. The single mother of three said during a live television exchange: \"I've been through labour three times, so I'm in really good shape for the months ahead.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Politics", "World news", "UK news", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Nicholas Watt: Michelle Bachelet's faux pas should not give David Cameron comfort"},{"date": "2009-03-27T18:13:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Gordon Brown today distanced himself from Britain's former close relationship with Augusto Pinochet as he paid a warm tribute to Chilean president Michelle Bachelet, who was tortured by the regime of the late Chilean dictator.In the first visit by a serving British prime minister to Chile, Brown praised the socialist president for her courage. Bachelet was kidnapped and tortured by forces loyal to Pinochet in 1975.Brown's approach was in stark contrast to that of Margaret Thatcher who invited Pinochet for tea in London after his arrest in 1998. Pinochet was arrested at the request of a Spanish judge investigating the disappearance of Spanish citizens during the Pinochet era.\"We have a duty to be responsible. We support democratic governments,\" Brown was to say today on the last stage of his five-day South America tour.\"President Bachelet was very courageous and brave,\" he said of the experience of the president whose father and boyfriend were tortured to death. \"I will be telling her, building on what I said yesterday [when the prime minister rejected torture but voiced support for MI5], that Britain abhors torture.\"Brown was using his meeting with Bachelet to reiterate comments made in Brazil yesterday in relation to the Binyam Mohamed affair \u2014 that the government would not condone nor endorse torture.In a tour of the presidential palace in Santiago, Brown visited the room where the socialist president, Salvador Allende, shot himself as Pinochet's troops marched on the palace in 1973. On the day of the coup Pinochet ordered the air force to bomb the palace.Brown recalled the impact of the coup and the death of Allende, a hero of the left. \"I remember the events in Chile in 1973. I was a student at the time and remember many Chilean students coming to Britain.\"Britain has historically enjoyed strong relations with Chile \u2014 Bernardo O'Higgins, who had Scottish roots, is known as the Liberator for his role in freeing the country from Spanish rule. But Anglo-Chilean links became controversial during the Falklands war when the Pinochet dictatorship offered intelligence support.", "tags": ["Gordon Brown", "Chile", "Torture", "UK news", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Brown praises Chilean president for her courage under Pinochet regime's torturers"},{"date": "2009-02-23T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Authorities have begun an investigation into the mysterious disappearance of a treasure-laden ship after it ran into difficulties in the Magellan straits off the southern coast of ArgentinaThe ship, registered in Chile, was carrying more than nine tonnes of gold and silver worth at least \u00a314m when it hit a fierce storm in the channel. Waves of up to 10 metres forced the crew to evacuate. The seven-man crew of the Polar Mist left the engines running to avoid fuel pollution after they abandoned ship. A few hours later, a coastguard helicopter spotted a second boat approaching the distressed vessel. The Beagle, which is also registered in Chile, began to tug the 23 metre Polar Mist in the direction of the Argentine port of R\u00edo Gallegos. Coastguard authorities presumed its intentions were to rescue the ship. About 25 miles off shore, during the night, the troubled Mist Polar reportedly began listing from side to side. According to the tug's captain, it then sank beneath the waves, and the bullion is now lying on the seabed, 80 metres below the surface. The cargo was on a scheduled journey from two mines in the Patagonian province of Santa Cruz to the Chilean port of Punta Arenas. The gold and silver was destined for a refinery in Switzerland. The captains of the two clippers are said to be helping officials with their investigation. In the meantime, all other ships have been banned from entering the area where the Polar Mist allegedly went under. Efforts are due to get under way shortly to salvage the cargo.\"The case remains open,\" said Gerardo Caama\u00f1o, the judge overseeing the investigation.", "tags": ["World news", "Water transport"], "title": "Mystery as \u00a314m treasure ship disappears"},{"date": "2009-03-28T00:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Gordon Brown will today deliver a blunt message to Argentina that Britain will never discuss the sovereignty of the Falkland Islands as he lavishes praise on the \"proud and strong\" 3,000 British inhabitants of the disputed territory, who mark the 27th anniversary of the Argentinian invasion on Thursday.\"There is nothing to discuss from our side,\" the prime minister said yesterday, as he flew into Santiago ahead of today's meeting with Cristina Kirchner, who won power in Argentina after promising to intensify efforts to reclaim \"Las Malvinas\".Brown and Kirchner will meet for the first time at the Progressive Governance summit on Chile's Pacific coast. The two leaders, both from the centre-left, are both due to attend next week's G20 summit in London, will use today's meeting to discuss a common approach to the global financial crisis.Downing Street has no intention of raising the Falkland Islands, but Brown accepts that Kirchner has, for domestic reasons, to restate Argentinian sovereignty over the Falkland Islands in the South Atlantic. However, the prime minister yesterday made clear that the constitutional future of the islands lay in the hands of the islanders, who are staunchly British. \"The essential principle has always been that the islanders should determine the issue of sovereignty for themselves. Let us be clear, our first priority will always be the needs and the wishes of the islanders.\"Britain and the Argentinian government are involved in a delicate diplomatic dance. Argentina would like to restore what it regards as its rightful sovereignty over the islands. Britain rejects this. In the meantime, Buenos Aires would like to gain unfettered access for the relatives of Argentinian soldiers who died in the 1982 war to visit their graves on the islands.The Falklands' islanders, for their part, want to be able to fly directly to Argentina. At the moment they have to embark on a lengthier journey to Chile.Slow progress is being made because the Argentinians will not allow a regular \"air bridge\" with the Falklands unless the island's sovereignty is addressed. This is holding up access for Argentinians to the war graves.Brown also met Michelle Bachelet, the socialist president, who was kidnapped and tortured by forces loyal to the late dictator, Augusto Pinochet, in 1975. Brown used his meeting with a torture victim to make clear - as Britain faces accusations of colluding in the torture of Binyam Mohammed - that he is adamantly opposed to the practice.He also suffered a mildly embarrassing moment when Bachelet inadvertently echoed one of the central criticisms aimed at Labour by the Tories: that they failed to prepare Britain's public finances during the good years.When asked about Chile's strong public finances, she said: \"I would say that because of our decisions during the good times - we decided to save some money for the bad times - I would say that policy today is producing results. We developed our fiscal stimulus. We could make one of 2.8% of GDP. That is pretty hard for a country like ours.\"", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "UK news", "Argentina", "World news", "Gordon Brown", "Politics", "Americas"], "title": "Falkland Islands sovereignty talks out of the question, says Gordon Brown"},{"date": "2009-05-09T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A fellow traveller once told me that there are only two possible emotions in an aeroplane: boredom and terror. I'm more inclined towards tedium, give or take the occasional in-flight movie, but I experienced both in the course of a day spent travelling between Santiago and La Serena in Chile 10 years ago. On paper, the flight looked simple, but thanks to the coastal fog that's a feature of La Serena, it was anything but. The pilot eventually decided it was too dangerous to land, although, scarily, he tried twice. We headed back to Santiago, where we spent an hour on the ground, before flying north again. The fog was still there and we duly failed to touch down for the third time that day. All this to explain why the prospect of returning to La Serena recently brought back clammy-palmed memories. But I was willing to make the flight in a small plane for the sake of a grape. The nearby Elqui Valley makes some of Chile's best Syrahs and, as a self-confessed lover of the variety, I wanted to learn what makes it so good. Is it the, er, convergence of cosmic and tellurgic energies, which draws New Age travellers to the area, or is this just a brilliant place in which to grow northern Rh\u00f4ne-style reds? I think it's the latter: a combination of altitude, wind, soil types, diurnal temperature variation and that thick morning fog gathering over the Pacific.There are only 38 hectares planted here, but they are leading a Syrah revolution in Chile. When Vi\u00f1a Falernia's 2002 Syrah won a trophy at the Wines of Chile Awards in 2005, even Chileans were amazed. \"Que?\" they said. The Elqui Valley had always been considered a pisco area, but thanks to Falernia and its winemaker, Giorgio Flessati, it has become one of the country's most talked about regions.Syrah's profile is on the up, generally. The country's winemakers may traditionally have been obsessed with Bordeaux varieties - the first Chilean plantings weren't made until 1994, by Vi\u00f1a Err\u00e1zuriz in Aconcagua - but Syrah is starting to emerge as a serious rival to Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot, with distinctive regional styles in Aconcagua, Limar\u00ed, San Antonio, Colchagua and Elqui.If you want to taste the differences between them, which are differences of winemaking approach as well as origin, start with The Wine Society's spicy, well-priced Chilean Syrah Elqui Valley (\u00a35.75, 14.5%, The Wine Society, 01438 740 222), made by Vi\u00f1a Falernia. Next, try the elegant, pepper-spicy 2006 Maycas del Limar\u00ed Reserva Especial Syrah, Concha y Toro (\u00a312.99, or \u00a39.99 each for two, 14.5%, Majestic). And then finish off with two bolder reds: the rich, minty, blackberry fruity 2007 Err\u00e1zuriz Max Reserva Syrah, Aconcagua (\u00a39.99, or \u00a37.99 each for two, 14.5%, Majestic) and the powerful, fruit-packed 2006 Montes Alpha Syrah, Colchagua (\u00a310.99, 14.5%, Waitrose), which also contains a little Cabernet and Viognier.You'll have to spend a little more, but if you want to get your hands on something really special, buy a bottle of the 2007 Matetic EQ Syrah, San Antonio (\u00a318.49, or \u00a314.79 each for two, 14%, Majestic; The Wine Society has the 2005 at \u00a314.95). This is fast becoming one of the great reds of the southern hemisphere: a wine with spice, structure, cellaring potential, seamless oak and a finish that goes on and on. Matetic planted its first Syrah vines as recently as 1999, the same year that Vi\u00f1a Falernia got started in Elqui. San Antonio is another recently developed wine region, which has only emerged since essential irrigation water was pumped there from the Maipo River in the late 1990s. We should be thankful it was. There are several good producers of Pinot Noir and Sauvignon Blanc in the area, but only one that makes world-class Syrah. Buy some now, before the price goes up.2007 Chartreuse de Bonpas R\u00e9serve C\u00f4tes du Rh\u00f4ne\u00a38.99, 14%, Sainsbury'sYet another example of the wonderful 2007 vintage in the southern Rh\u00f4ne: an opulent, unoaked, Grenache-based red with aromatic berry fruit.tim.atkin@observer.co.uk, timatkin.com", "tags": ["Wine", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Wine: Tim Atkin expresses his love for Chile wine from its native Syrah"},{"date": "2009-05-09T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A fellow traveller once told me that there are only two possible emotions in an aeroplane: boredom and terror. I'm more inclined towards tedium, give or take the occasional in-flight movie, but I experienced both in the course of a day spent travelling between Santiago and La Serena in Chile 10 years ago. On paper, the flight looked simple, but thanks to the coastal fog that's a feature of La Serena, it was anything but. The pilot eventually decided it was too dangerous to land, although, scarily, he tried twice. We headed back to Santiago, where we spent an hour on the ground, before flying north again. The fog was still there and we duly failed to touch down for the third time that day. All this to explain why the prospect of returning to La Serena recently brought back clammy-palmed memories. But I was willing to make the flight in a small plane for the sake of a grape. The nearby Elqui Valley makes some of Chile's best Syrahs and, as a self-confessed lover of the variety, I wanted to learn what makes it so good. Is it the, er, convergence of cosmic and tellurgic energies, which draws New Age travellers to the area, or is this just a brilliant place in which to grow northern Rh\u00f4ne-style reds? I think it's the latter: a combination of altitude, wind, soil types, diurnal temperature variation and that thick morning fog gathering over the Pacific.There are only 38 hectares planted here, but they are leading a Syrah revolution in Chile. When Vi\u00f1a Falernia's 2002 Syrah won a trophy at the Wines of Chile Awards in 2005, even Chileans were amazed. \"Que?\" they said. The Elqui Valley had always been considered a pisco area, but thanks to Falernia and its winemaker, Giorgio Flessati, it has become one of the country's most talked about regions.Syrah's profile is on the up, generally. The country's winemakers may traditionally have been obsessed with Bordeaux varieties - the first Chilean plantings weren't made until 1994, by Vi\u00f1a Err\u00e1zuriz in Aconcagua - but Syrah is starting to emerge as a serious rival to Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot, with distinctive regional styles in Aconcagua, Limar\u00ed, San Antonio, Colchagua and Elqui.If you want to taste the differences between them, which are differences of winemaking approach as well as origin, start with The Wine Society's spicy, well-priced Chilean Syrah Elqui Valley (\u00a35.75, 14.5%, The Wine Society, 01438 740 222), made by Vi\u00f1a Falernia. Next, try the elegant, pepper-spicy 2006 Maycas del Limar\u00ed Reserva Especial Syrah, Concha y Toro (\u00a312.99, or \u00a39.99 each for two, 14.5%, Majestic). And then finish off with two bolder reds: the rich, minty, blackberry fruity 2007 Err\u00e1zuriz Max Reserva Syrah, Aconcagua (\u00a39.99, or \u00a37.99 each for two, 14.5%, Majestic) and the powerful, fruit-packed 2006 Montes Alpha Syrah, Colchagua (\u00a310.99, 14.5%, Waitrose), which also contains a little Cabernet and Viognier.You'll have to spend a little more, but if you want to get your hands on something really special, buy a bottle of the 2007 Matetic EQ Syrah, San Antonio (\u00a318.49, or \u00a314.79 each for two, 14%, Majestic; The Wine Society has the 2005 at \u00a314.95). This is fast becoming one of the great reds of the southern hemisphere: a wine with spice, structure, cellaring potential, seamless oak and a finish that goes on and on. Matetic planted its first Syrah vines as recently as 1999, the same year that Vi\u00f1a Falernia got started in Elqui. San Antonio is another recently developed wine region, which has only emerged since essential irrigation water was pumped there from the Maipo River in the late 1990s. We should be thankful it was. There are several good producers of Pinot Noir and Sauvignon Blanc in the area, but only one that makes world-class Syrah. Buy some now, before the price goes up.2007 Chartreuse de Bonpas R\u00e9serve C\u00f4tes du Rh\u00f4ne\u00a38.99, 14%, Sainsbury'sYet another example of the wonderful 2007 vintage in the southern Rh\u00f4ne: an opulent, unoaked, Grenache-based red with aromatic berry fruit.tim.atkin@observer.co.uk, timatkin.com", "tags": ["Wine", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Wine: Tim Atkin expresses his love for Chile wine from its native Syrah"},{"date": "2009-05-31T16:45:55Z", "country": "chile", "content": "They did not fit the typical drug dealer profile: two elderly grandmothers, one of them bedridden, living beside a police academy on a leafy suburban street.But according to Chilean authorities, Maria Valdebenito, 80, and Giselle Gilbert, 72, ran a profitable drugs business from their home in Providencia, a suburb in the capital Santiago.They have been charged with drug trafficking after a night police raid on their house over the weekend netted almost 2kg of cocaine, cocaine paste and \u00a345,000 in cash.Because of their advanced age and Valdebenito's infirmity they have been placed under house arrest pending a prosecutors' request to detain them at a penitentiary hospital.They arranged deals mostly by telephone and Gilbert, the more agile of the pair, would hand over packages at designated spots near their home, Patricio Caroca, a prosecutor, told the newspaper El Mercurio. \"The clients we have been able to trace were professionals who bought the drugs for personal consumption.\"Suspicious neighbours tipped off police several times in recent years, prompting a six-month investigation which led to the raid. \"You would always see fancy cars and an elderly lady hanging around them,\" an unnamed neighbour told local media.Anti-narcotic investigators, who are more accustomed to tracking youth gangs, were criticised for not acting sooner on a case which evoked Arsenic and Old Lace, the 1944 Frank Capra film about two elderly women criminals.The Chilean pair, descendants of German immigrants, were lifelong friends who used to run textile businesses. Another factor in common was that each had a criminal record.Gilbert, who was also named as Gulbert, notched up eight detention orders for bank fraud and drink-driving. Valdebenito was convicted of drug trafficking in 1998.Her son, Daniel Ried, 46, was sentenced to 20 years in jail in the 1990s for drug offences. An associate of Nicolas Escobar, scion of one of Colombia's most notorious cocaine dynasties, Ried was caught trying to smuggle furniture stashed with cocaine to Spain.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Elderly women charged with running drug business from Santiago home"},{"date": "2009-05-09T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A fellow traveller once told me that there are only two possible emotions in an aeroplane: boredom and terror. I'm more inclined towards tedium, give or take the occasional in-flight movie, but I experienced both in the course of a day spent travelling between Santiago and La Serena in Chile 10 years ago. On paper, the flight looked simple, but thanks to the coastal fog that's a feature of La Serena, it was anything but. The pilot eventually decided it was too dangerous to land, although, scarily, he tried twice. We headed back to Santiago, where we spent an hour on the ground, before flying north again. The fog was still there and we duly failed to touch down for the third time that day. All this to explain why the prospect of returning to La Serena recently brought back clammy-palmed memories. But I was willing to make the flight in a small plane for the sake of a grape. The nearby Elqui Valley makes some of Chile's best Syrahs and, as a self-confessed lover of the variety, I wanted to learn what makes it so good. Is it the, er, convergence of cosmic and tellurgic energies, which draws New Age travellers to the area, or is this just a brilliant place in which to grow northern Rh\u00f4ne-style reds? I think it's the latter: a combination of altitude, wind, soil types, diurnal temperature variation and that thick morning fog gathering over the Pacific.There are only 38 hectares planted here, but they are leading a Syrah revolution in Chile. When Vi\u00f1a Falernia's 2002 Syrah won a trophy at the Wines of Chile Awards in 2005, even Chileans were amazed. \"Que?\" they said. The Elqui Valley had always been considered a pisco area, but thanks to Falernia and its winemaker, Giorgio Flessati, it has become one of the country's most talked about regions.Syrah's profile is on the up, generally. The country's winemakers may traditionally have been obsessed with Bordeaux varieties - the first Chilean plantings weren't made until 1994, by Vi\u00f1a Err\u00e1zuriz in Aconcagua - but Syrah is starting to emerge as a serious rival to Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot, with distinctive regional styles in Aconcagua, Limar\u00ed, San Antonio, Colchagua and Elqui.If you want to taste the differences between them, which are differences of winemaking approach as well as origin, start with The Wine Society's spicy, well-priced Chilean Syrah Elqui Valley (\u00a35.75, 14.5%, The Wine Society, 01438 740 222), made by Vi\u00f1a Falernia. Next, try the elegant, pepper-spicy 2006 Maycas del Limar\u00ed Reserva Especial Syrah, Concha y Toro (\u00a312.99, or \u00a39.99 each for two, 14.5%, Majestic). And then finish off with two bolder reds: the rich, minty, blackberry fruity 2007 Err\u00e1zuriz Max Reserva Syrah, Aconcagua (\u00a39.99, or \u00a37.99 each for two, 14.5%, Majestic) and the powerful, fruit-packed 2006 Montes Alpha Syrah, Colchagua (\u00a310.99, 14.5%, Waitrose), which also contains a little Cabernet and Viognier.You'll have to spend a little more, but if you want to get your hands on something really special, buy a bottle of the 2007 Matetic EQ Syrah, San Antonio (\u00a318.49, or \u00a314.79 each for two, 14%, Majestic; The Wine Society has the 2005 at \u00a314.95). This is fast becoming one of the great reds of the southern hemisphere: a wine with spice, structure, cellaring potential, seamless oak and a finish that goes on and on. Matetic planted its first Syrah vines as recently as 1999, the same year that Vi\u00f1a Falernia got started in Elqui. San Antonio is another recently developed wine region, which has only emerged since essential irrigation water was pumped there from the Maipo River in the late 1990s. We should be thankful it was. There are several good producers of Pinot Noir and Sauvignon Blanc in the area, but only one that makes world-class Syrah. Buy some now, before the price goes up.2007 Chartreuse de Bonpas R\u00e9serve C\u00f4tes du Rh\u00f4ne\u00a38.99, 14%, Sainsbury'sYet another example of the wonderful 2007 vintage in the southern Rh\u00f4ne: an opulent, unoaked, Grenache-based red with aromatic berry fruit.tim.atkin@observer.co.uk, timatkin.com", "tags": ["Wine", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Wine: Tim Atkin expresses his love for Chile wine from its native Syrah"},{"date": "2009-05-31T16:45:55Z", "country": "chile", "content": "They did not fit the typical drug dealer profile: two elderly grandmothers, one of them bedridden, living beside a police academy on a leafy suburban street.But according to Chilean authorities, Maria Valdebenito, 80, and Giselle Gilbert, 72, ran a profitable drugs business from their home in Providencia, a suburb in the capital Santiago.They have been charged with drug trafficking after a night police raid on their house over the weekend netted almost 2kg of cocaine, cocaine paste and \u00a345,000 in cash.Because of their advanced age and Valdebenito's infirmity they have been placed under house arrest pending a prosecutors' request to detain them at a penitentiary hospital.They arranged deals mostly by telephone and Gilbert, the more agile of the pair, would hand over packages at designated spots near their home, Patricio Caroca, a prosecutor, told the newspaper El Mercurio. \"The clients we have been able to trace were professionals who bought the drugs for personal consumption.\"Suspicious neighbours tipped off police several times in recent years, prompting a six-month investigation which led to the raid. \"You would always see fancy cars and an elderly lady hanging around them,\" an unnamed neighbour told local media.Anti-narcotic investigators, who are more accustomed to tracking youth gangs, were criticised for not acting sooner on a case which evoked Arsenic and Old Lace, the 1944 Frank Capra film about two elderly women criminals.The Chilean pair, descendants of German immigrants, were lifelong friends who used to run textile businesses. Another factor in common was that each had a criminal record.Gilbert, who was also named as Gulbert, notched up eight detention orders for bank fraud and drink-driving. Valdebenito was convicted of drug trafficking in 1998.Her son, Daniel Ried, 46, was sentenced to 20 years in jail in the 1990s for drug offences. An associate of Nicolas Escobar, scion of one of Colombia's most notorious cocaine dynasties, Ried was caught trying to smuggle furniture stashed with cocaine to Spain.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Elderly women charged with running drug business from Santiago home"},{"date": "2009-06-06T16:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the war of the Pacific in 1879, a conflict in part over access to guano for fertiliser, Chile took away Bolivia's only access to the Pacific Ocean. More than a century later, demands from Bolivia for the recuperation of this land are now louder than ever.The most recently proposed solution to the diplomatic crisis seems to be straight out of a science fiction novel: the construction of a 150km tunnel from Bolivia to an artificial island created by the excavated dirt.The tunnel, proposed by three Chilean architects, would allow for regular vehicle transport and include a gas duct to export gas (Bolivia is home to extensive natural gas reserves). Similar to many Bolivians' demands for a fully nationalised gas industry and land reform, Bolivia's call for access to the ocean is bound up in a widespread desire to recuperate looted riches and natural wealth. However, this most recent proposal falls significantly short of the full access due to Bolivia, and seems to be yet another sign that Chile is not taking Bolivia seriously in its demands.Tito Hoz de Vila, a Bolivian senator and president of the government's commission on foreign relations, said the tunnel idea was \"a mockery and insult to the intelligence of the Bolivian people\".Bolivian President Evo Morales has been a strong advocate for access to the ocean, and in recent years has been in negotiations regarding the issue with Chilean President Michelle Bachelet. Mariano Fern\u00e1ndez, the Chilean foreign minister, told reporters that he considered the tunnel plan \"an avant-garde proposal that will be interesting to hear about. \u2026 It's an important subject for Chile, very important for Bolivia and it's not easy to find ways to solve all our problems from one day to the next.\" Yet this time-consuming and expensive project is far from a solution, and more likely another way to delay action on the part of the Chileans. David Choquehuanca, the Bolivian foreign minister, said that he \"laughed a bit\" when he heard of the proposed tunnel. The minister explained: \"What's important is that even imaginative people are speaking about sea access for Bolivia.\" Choquehuanca said he would not comment further on the proposal until it is officially presented by his Chilean counterpart. After a meeting between President Bachelet and Fidel Castro in Cuba last February, Castro wrote a column in which he criticised Chile for not respecting Bolivia's demands for access to the sea. He wrote that the Chilean \"oligarchy\" has been denying Bolivia its ocean port, and that the land taken over by Chile contains the largest copper reserve in the world, providing the Chilean economy with millions of dollars each year. This is another reason Chile should simply give over the land that is indeed Bolivia's.Humberto Eliash, one of the Chilean architects proposing the tunnel, told the BBC: \"Poets say that we must build a bridge between Bolivia and the Pacific that jumps over Chile. We wanted to see if it could work in reality.\" But instead of going high above ground, Eliash and his colleagues are looking underground. The tunnel would be one of the longest in the world and take approximately a decade to complete. \"In the beginning, we thought the idea was a little crazy, but now we think it can really be viable,\" Eliash said. \"I see this as a possible dream, not madness.\"But such a plan does appear to verge on madness, especially when he proposes that the impoverished country of Bolivia should cover the tab. Taking a decade to complete would also allow politicians to simply push away responsibility for fully addressing this urgent issue. Eliash explained that many diplomatic, trade and migration-related problems are currently being resolved with tunnels in various parts of the world, including the construction of a tunnel between China and Taiwan. The architect also cited the plans to connect Spain to Morocco through a tunnel. A major challenge faced by such construction in Bolivia and Chile is financial. The architects suggest that Bolivia fund the costly project, using the profits generated by the sea port to help recover costs.According to the proposal, part of the tunnel would pass under Peru, and later resurface in the Pacific in a territory owned by Chile, Bolivia and Peru. These factors could all create political problems with Peru. And recently, Peruvian-Bolivian relations have taken a turn for the worse. Peru has made the deplorable decision of offering refuge to ex-ministers under former Bolivian President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada. The ex-ministers are accused by the Bolivian government of being involved in the 2003 massacre of 67people in the Gas war, a popular uprising which developed in part due to outrage over a plan to export Bolivian gas to the US through a Chilean \u2013 formerly Bolivian \u2013 port. Morales told reporters that relations with Peru are now at \"high risk\" after what he said was a \"provocation and an open aggression\" by Peruvian President Alan Garcia. The trial against Sanchez de Lozada and his cohorts began on 18 May in Bolivia.If Chile formally proposes the tunnel option, it is difficult to say what Morales's response will be. In previous speeches, he has said he will never give up fighting for Bolivia's access to the sea, and in early March promised that \"if we recuperate Bolivia's access to the sea, I promise I will dance the [traditional] Morenada dance at Carnaval.\" Yet when Morales made that promise he was talking about full access to the land and ports stolen by Chile in an unfair war over a century ago. He wasn't talking about an incredibly costly, dangerous, time-consuming and, thanks to relations with Peru, diplomatically impossible tunnel.It's time for the Chilean government to start taking its Andean neighbour seriously in its demands for recuperation of the land and resources that are rightfully Bolivian and stop suggesting proposals that will only worsen diplomatic relations, not help them.", "tags": ["Bolivia", "Chile", "Environment", "Engineering", "International trade", "World news", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Bolivia and Chile's tunnel vision | Benjamin Dangl"},{"date": "2009-05-09T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A fellow traveller once told me that there are only two possible emotions in an aeroplane: boredom and terror. I'm more inclined towards tedium, give or take the occasional in-flight movie, but I experienced both in the course of a day spent travelling between Santiago and La Serena in Chile 10 years ago. On paper, the flight looked simple, but thanks to the coastal fog that's a feature of La Serena, it was anything but. The pilot eventually decided it was too dangerous to land, although, scarily, he tried twice. We headed back to Santiago, where we spent an hour on the ground, before flying north again. The fog was still there and we duly failed to touch down for the third time that day. All this to explain why the prospect of returning to La Serena recently brought back clammy-palmed memories. But I was willing to make the flight in a small plane for the sake of a grape. The nearby Elqui Valley makes some of Chile's best Syrahs and, as a self-confessed lover of the variety, I wanted to learn what makes it so good. Is it the, er, convergence of cosmic and tellurgic energies, which draws New Age travellers to the area, or is this just a brilliant place in which to grow northern Rh\u00f4ne-style reds? I think it's the latter: a combination of altitude, wind, soil types, diurnal temperature variation and that thick morning fog gathering over the Pacific.There are only 38 hectares planted here, but they are leading a Syrah revolution in Chile. When Vi\u00f1a Falernia's 2002 Syrah won a trophy at the Wines of Chile Awards in 2005, even Chileans were amazed. \"Que?\" they said. The Elqui Valley had always been considered a pisco area, but thanks to Falernia and its winemaker, Giorgio Flessati, it has become one of the country's most talked about regions.Syrah's profile is on the up, generally. The country's winemakers may traditionally have been obsessed with Bordeaux varieties - the first Chilean plantings weren't made until 1994, by Vi\u00f1a Err\u00e1zuriz in Aconcagua - but Syrah is starting to emerge as a serious rival to Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot, with distinctive regional styles in Aconcagua, Limar\u00ed, San Antonio, Colchagua and Elqui.If you want to taste the differences between them, which are differences of winemaking approach as well as origin, start with The Wine Society's spicy, well-priced Chilean Syrah Elqui Valley (\u00a35.75, 14.5%, The Wine Society, 01438 740 222), made by Vi\u00f1a Falernia. Next, try the elegant, pepper-spicy 2006 Maycas del Limar\u00ed Reserva Especial Syrah, Concha y Toro (\u00a312.99, or \u00a39.99 each for two, 14.5%, Majestic). And then finish off with two bolder reds: the rich, minty, blackberry fruity 2007 Err\u00e1zuriz Max Reserva Syrah, Aconcagua (\u00a39.99, or \u00a37.99 each for two, 14.5%, Majestic) and the powerful, fruit-packed 2006 Montes Alpha Syrah, Colchagua (\u00a310.99, 14.5%, Waitrose), which also contains a little Cabernet and Viognier.You'll have to spend a little more, but if you want to get your hands on something really special, buy a bottle of the 2007 Matetic EQ Syrah, San Antonio (\u00a318.49, or \u00a314.79 each for two, 14%, Majestic; The Wine Society has the 2005 at \u00a314.95). This is fast becoming one of the great reds of the southern hemisphere: a wine with spice, structure, cellaring potential, seamless oak and a finish that goes on and on. Matetic planted its first Syrah vines as recently as 1999, the same year that Vi\u00f1a Falernia got started in Elqui. San Antonio is another recently developed wine region, which has only emerged since essential irrigation water was pumped there from the Maipo River in the late 1990s. We should be thankful it was. There are several good producers of Pinot Noir and Sauvignon Blanc in the area, but only one that makes world-class Syrah. Buy some now, before the price goes up.2007 Chartreuse de Bonpas R\u00e9serve C\u00f4tes du Rh\u00f4ne\u00a38.99, 14%, Sainsbury'sYet another example of the wonderful 2007 vintage in the southern Rh\u00f4ne: an opulent, unoaked, Grenache-based red with aromatic berry fruit.tim.atkin@observer.co.uk, timatkin.com", "tags": ["Wine", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Wine: Tim Atkin expresses his love for Chile wine from its native Syrah"},{"date": "2009-05-31T16:45:55Z", "country": "chile", "content": "They did not fit the typical drug dealer profile: two elderly grandmothers, one of them bedridden, living beside a police academy on a leafy suburban street.But according to Chilean authorities, Maria Valdebenito, 80, and Giselle Gilbert, 72, ran a profitable drugs business from their home in Providencia, a suburb in the capital Santiago.They have been charged with drug trafficking after a night police raid on their house over the weekend netted almost 2kg of cocaine, cocaine paste and \u00a345,000 in cash.Because of their advanced age and Valdebenito's infirmity they have been placed under house arrest pending a prosecutors' request to detain them at a penitentiary hospital.They arranged deals mostly by telephone and Gilbert, the more agile of the pair, would hand over packages at designated spots near their home, Patricio Caroca, a prosecutor, told the newspaper El Mercurio. \"The clients we have been able to trace were professionals who bought the drugs for personal consumption.\"Suspicious neighbours tipped off police several times in recent years, prompting a six-month investigation which led to the raid. \"You would always see fancy cars and an elderly lady hanging around them,\" an unnamed neighbour told local media.Anti-narcotic investigators, who are more accustomed to tracking youth gangs, were criticised for not acting sooner on a case which evoked Arsenic and Old Lace, the 1944 Frank Capra film about two elderly women criminals.The Chilean pair, descendants of German immigrants, were lifelong friends who used to run textile businesses. Another factor in common was that each had a criminal record.Gilbert, who was also named as Gulbert, notched up eight detention orders for bank fraud and drink-driving. Valdebenito was convicted of drug trafficking in 1998.Her son, Daniel Ried, 46, was sentenced to 20 years in jail in the 1990s for drug offences. An associate of Nicolas Escobar, scion of one of Colombia's most notorious cocaine dynasties, Ried was caught trying to smuggle furniture stashed with cocaine to Spain.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Elderly women charged with running drug business from Santiago home"},{"date": "2009-06-06T16:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the war of the Pacific in 1879, a conflict in part over access to guano for fertiliser, Chile took away Bolivia's only access to the Pacific Ocean. More than a century later, demands from Bolivia for the recuperation of this land are now louder than ever.The most recently proposed solution to the diplomatic crisis seems to be straight out of a science fiction novel: the construction of a 150km tunnel from Bolivia to an artificial island created by the excavated dirt.The tunnel, proposed by three Chilean architects, would allow for regular vehicle transport and include a gas duct to export gas (Bolivia is home to extensive natural gas reserves). Similar to many Bolivians' demands for a fully nationalised gas industry and land reform, Bolivia's call for access to the ocean is bound up in a widespread desire to recuperate looted riches and natural wealth. However, this most recent proposal falls significantly short of the full access due to Bolivia, and seems to be yet another sign that Chile is not taking Bolivia seriously in its demands.Tito Hoz de Vila, a Bolivian senator and president of the government's commission on foreign relations, said the tunnel idea was \"a mockery and insult to the intelligence of the Bolivian people\".Bolivian President Evo Morales has been a strong advocate for access to the ocean, and in recent years has been in negotiations regarding the issue with Chilean President Michelle Bachelet. Mariano Fern\u00e1ndez, the Chilean foreign minister, told reporters that he considered the tunnel plan \"an avant-garde proposal that will be interesting to hear about. \u2026 It's an important subject for Chile, very important for Bolivia and it's not easy to find ways to solve all our problems from one day to the next.\" Yet this time-consuming and expensive project is far from a solution, and more likely another way to delay action on the part of the Chileans. David Choquehuanca, the Bolivian foreign minister, said that he \"laughed a bit\" when he heard of the proposed tunnel. The minister explained: \"What's important is that even imaginative people are speaking about sea access for Bolivia.\" Choquehuanca said he would not comment further on the proposal until it is officially presented by his Chilean counterpart. After a meeting between President Bachelet and Fidel Castro in Cuba last February, Castro wrote a column in which he criticised Chile for not respecting Bolivia's demands for access to the sea. He wrote that the Chilean \"oligarchy\" has been denying Bolivia its ocean port, and that the land taken over by Chile contains the largest copper reserve in the world, providing the Chilean economy with millions of dollars each year. This is another reason Chile should simply give over the land that is indeed Bolivia's.Humberto Eliash, one of the Chilean architects proposing the tunnel, told the BBC: \"Poets say that we must build a bridge between Bolivia and the Pacific that jumps over Chile. We wanted to see if it could work in reality.\" But instead of going high above ground, Eliash and his colleagues are looking underground. The tunnel would be one of the longest in the world and take approximately a decade to complete. \"In the beginning, we thought the idea was a little crazy, but now we think it can really be viable,\" Eliash said. \"I see this as a possible dream, not madness.\"But such a plan does appear to verge on madness, especially when he proposes that the impoverished country of Bolivia should cover the tab. Taking a decade to complete would also allow politicians to simply push away responsibility for fully addressing this urgent issue. Eliash explained that many diplomatic, trade and migration-related problems are currently being resolved with tunnels in various parts of the world, including the construction of a tunnel between China and Taiwan. The architect also cited the plans to connect Spain to Morocco through a tunnel. A major challenge faced by such construction in Bolivia and Chile is financial. The architects suggest that Bolivia fund the costly project, using the profits generated by the sea port to help recover costs.According to the proposal, part of the tunnel would pass under Peru, and later resurface in the Pacific in a territory owned by Chile, Bolivia and Peru. These factors could all create political problems with Peru. And recently, Peruvian-Bolivian relations have taken a turn for the worse. Peru has made the deplorable decision of offering refuge to ex-ministers under former Bolivian President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada. The ex-ministers are accused by the Bolivian government of being involved in the 2003 massacre of 67people in the Gas war, a popular uprising which developed in part due to outrage over a plan to export Bolivian gas to the US through a Chilean \u2013 formerly Bolivian \u2013 port. Morales told reporters that relations with Peru are now at \"high risk\" after what he said was a \"provocation and an open aggression\" by Peruvian President Alan Garcia. The trial against Sanchez de Lozada and his cohorts began on 18 May in Bolivia.If Chile formally proposes the tunnel option, it is difficult to say what Morales's response will be. In previous speeches, he has said he will never give up fighting for Bolivia's access to the sea, and in early March promised that \"if we recuperate Bolivia's access to the sea, I promise I will dance the [traditional] Morenada dance at Carnaval.\" Yet when Morales made that promise he was talking about full access to the land and ports stolen by Chile in an unfair war over a century ago. He wasn't talking about an incredibly costly, dangerous, time-consuming and, thanks to relations with Peru, diplomatically impossible tunnel.It's time for the Chilean government to start taking its Andean neighbour seriously in its demands for recuperation of the land and resources that are rightfully Bolivian and stop suggesting proposals that will only worsen diplomatic relations, not help them.", "tags": ["Bolivia", "Chile", "Environment", "Engineering", "International trade", "World news", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Bolivia and Chile's tunnel vision | Benjamin Dangl"},{"date": "2009-06-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Hortensia Bussi de Allende, who has died aged 94 in Valpara\u00edso, was the widow of Salvador Allende, the socialist president of Chile from 1970 to 1973. Known by everyone in Chile as \"La Tencha\" (from Hortensia), she became the symbolic rallying figure of the Chilean opposition to the dictatorship of General Augusto Pinochet in the years after the 1973 coup in which her husband died. She lived for most of those years in Mexico but travelled the world to campaign against the Pinochet regime, finally returning to Chile in 1988.Hortensia Bussi was born in Valpara\u00edso, a Chilean naval port, to a well-off family. She was the daughter of an officer in Chile's prestigious merchant marine, and studied in Santiago to be a teacher.She met Allende, the socialist senator for Valpara\u00edso, in the aftermath of the Chill\u00e1n earthquake of January 1939 which destroyed the cities of Chill\u00e1n and Concepci\u00f3n and killed more than 30,000 people. The pair were involved in the campaign for those made homeless by the earthquake and married a year later. He was then, as minister of health in the Popular Front government of Pedro Aguirre Cerda, at the start of his political career.A proud, attractive and aristocratic figure, Hortensia Bussi was a non-political wife, but she accompanied him in his unsuccessful campaigns for the presidency in 1958 and 1964. She was a delightful and entertaining woman, as I discovered when I took her shopping in the King's Road, Chelsea, in the 1960s. With Allende's eventual triumph in 1970, Hortensia became the first lady of Chile, a task that she performed with elegance and grace amid the turbulent politics of the time.The determination of the US government of Richard Nixon to overthrow the Allende government, coupled with the fierce opposition of conservative forces in Chile that held a majority of seats in Congress, created an atmosphere of permanent political crisis that was not resolved until Pinochet's coup in September 1973.Although \"La Tencha\" was the first lady, it was no secret in Chile that Allende spent half the week with his diary secretary and longtime lover M\u00edriam Contreras, who had a home on the slopes of the Andes at El Ca\u00f1averal. Known as \"La Payita\", she had been a neighbour in the 1950s and became Allende's close political friend and adviser, with an office in La Moneda, the presidential palace. Her son Enrique was killed in the coup, and she went into exile in Havana, Cuba, where she kept in close touch with those members of the Allende family who were also exiled there. She died in Chile in 2002.The coup brought bombing raids on the palace and on the Allende home at Tom\u00e1s Moro by Hawker Hunter jets bought from Britain, then the pride of the Chilean air force. Hortensia Bussi survived these attacks at her home, but her husband committed suicide in the palace while under siege, a historical echo of the death in 1891 of Jos\u00e9 Manuel Balmaceda, a president who ruled in a comparable period of conflict. She was flown by the military to a secret burial for her husband in Valpara\u00edso, but the coffin was sealed and she was unable to verify the cause of death. She left immediately for Mexico, where she was greeted by the entire cabinet of President Lu\u00eds Echevarr\u00eda.The coup that overthrew Allende was in many ways the making of Hortensia Bussi. She had lived for a long time in the shadow of her unfaithful husband, and, uninterested in the perennial squabbles of the Chilean left, the coup turned her into a significant political figure in her own right. As Allende's widow, she became a famous campaigner for human rights as well as a symbol that helped to unify Chile's fractious exiles, an immense diaspora spread all over the world. She travelled to east and western Europe, to the Soviet Union and China, and to the countries of Latin America that broke free from military embrace. Everywhere she addressed meetings and conferences to keep alive the spirit of the Chilean democratic tradition. She unveiled road signs and streets named after her husband, and was even a candidate in 1977 to be rector of Glasgow University.The US was less welcoming, frequently denying her a visa and then being forced to give way after legal challenges. She remained an indefatigable campaigner, returning to Chile in 1988 as the country prepared to reject Pinochet's rule in a referendum. Elections in 1990 brought a new coalition government of which her husband's Socialist party was a member.She settled back in Chile but played no further part in public life. She was rarely seen outside her home in the subsequent two decades. Yet thousands attended her funeral last week, including President Michelle Bachelet and former presidents Ricardo Lagos and Eduardo Frei.Hortensia Bussi had three daughters with Allende: Isabel, Beatriz and Carmen Paz (the novelist Isabel Allende is a distant cousin). Prolonged exile took its toll on the family. Beatriz, known as \"Tati\", married a Cuban and lived in exile in Havana, committing suicide there in 1977, while Allende's younger sister Laura, once a Socialist party deputy for Santiago, also committed suicide there in 1981 after being diagnosed with terminal cancer.Carmen Paz and Isabel, a Socialist party deputy in Congress, survive their mother.\u2022 Mercedes Hortensia Bussi Soto de Allende, teacher and campaigner, born 22 July 1914; died 18 June 2009", "tags": ["Chile", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Hortensia Bussi de Allende | Obituary"},{"date": "2009-05-09T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A fellow traveller once told me that there are only two possible emotions in an aeroplane: boredom and terror. I'm more inclined towards tedium, give or take the occasional in-flight movie, but I experienced both in the course of a day spent travelling between Santiago and La Serena in Chile 10 years ago. On paper, the flight looked simple, but thanks to the coastal fog that's a feature of La Serena, it was anything but. The pilot eventually decided it was too dangerous to land, although, scarily, he tried twice. We headed back to Santiago, where we spent an hour on the ground, before flying north again. The fog was still there and we duly failed to touch down for the third time that day. All this to explain why the prospect of returning to La Serena recently brought back clammy-palmed memories. But I was willing to make the flight in a small plane for the sake of a grape. The nearby Elqui Valley makes some of Chile's best Syrahs and, as a self-confessed lover of the variety, I wanted to learn what makes it so good. Is it the, er, convergence of cosmic and tellurgic energies, which draws New Age travellers to the area, or is this just a brilliant place in which to grow northern Rh\u00f4ne-style reds? I think it's the latter: a combination of altitude, wind, soil types, diurnal temperature variation and that thick morning fog gathering over the Pacific.There are only 38 hectares planted here, but they are leading a Syrah revolution in Chile. When Vi\u00f1a Falernia's 2002 Syrah won a trophy at the Wines of Chile Awards in 2005, even Chileans were amazed. \"Que?\" they said. The Elqui Valley had always been considered a pisco area, but thanks to Falernia and its winemaker, Giorgio Flessati, it has become one of the country's most talked about regions.Syrah's profile is on the up, generally. The country's winemakers may traditionally have been obsessed with Bordeaux varieties - the first Chilean plantings weren't made until 1994, by Vi\u00f1a Err\u00e1zuriz in Aconcagua - but Syrah is starting to emerge as a serious rival to Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot, with distinctive regional styles in Aconcagua, Limar\u00ed, San Antonio, Colchagua and Elqui.If you want to taste the differences between them, which are differences of winemaking approach as well as origin, start with The Wine Society's spicy, well-priced Chilean Syrah Elqui Valley (\u00a35.75, 14.5%, The Wine Society, 01438 740 222), made by Vi\u00f1a Falernia. Next, try the elegant, pepper-spicy 2006 Maycas del Limar\u00ed Reserva Especial Syrah, Concha y Toro (\u00a312.99, or \u00a39.99 each for two, 14.5%, Majestic). And then finish off with two bolder reds: the rich, minty, blackberry fruity 2007 Err\u00e1zuriz Max Reserva Syrah, Aconcagua (\u00a39.99, or \u00a37.99 each for two, 14.5%, Majestic) and the powerful, fruit-packed 2006 Montes Alpha Syrah, Colchagua (\u00a310.99, 14.5%, Waitrose), which also contains a little Cabernet and Viognier.You'll have to spend a little more, but if you want to get your hands on something really special, buy a bottle of the 2007 Matetic EQ Syrah, San Antonio (\u00a318.49, or \u00a314.79 each for two, 14%, Majestic; The Wine Society has the 2005 at \u00a314.95). This is fast becoming one of the great reds of the southern hemisphere: a wine with spice, structure, cellaring potential, seamless oak and a finish that goes on and on. Matetic planted its first Syrah vines as recently as 1999, the same year that Vi\u00f1a Falernia got started in Elqui. San Antonio is another recently developed wine region, which has only emerged since essential irrigation water was pumped there from the Maipo River in the late 1990s. We should be thankful it was. There are several good producers of Pinot Noir and Sauvignon Blanc in the area, but only one that makes world-class Syrah. Buy some now, before the price goes up.2007 Chartreuse de Bonpas R\u00e9serve C\u00f4tes du Rh\u00f4ne\u00a38.99, 14%, Sainsbury'sYet another example of the wonderful 2007 vintage in the southern Rh\u00f4ne: an opulent, unoaked, Grenache-based red with aromatic berry fruit.tim.atkin@observer.co.uk, timatkin.com", "tags": ["Wine", "Food & drink", "Life and style"], "title": "Wine: Tim Atkin expresses his love for Chile wine from its native Syrah"},{"date": "2009-05-31T16:45:55Z", "country": "chile", "content": "They did not fit the typical drug dealer profile: two elderly grandmothers, one of them bedridden, living beside a police academy on a leafy suburban street.But according to Chilean authorities, Maria Valdebenito, 80, and Giselle Gilbert, 72, ran a profitable drugs business from their home in Providencia, a suburb in the capital Santiago.They have been charged with drug trafficking after a night police raid on their house over the weekend netted almost 2kg of cocaine, cocaine paste and \u00a345,000 in cash.Because of their advanced age and Valdebenito's infirmity they have been placed under house arrest pending a prosecutors' request to detain them at a penitentiary hospital.They arranged deals mostly by telephone and Gilbert, the more agile of the pair, would hand over packages at designated spots near their home, Patricio Caroca, a prosecutor, told the newspaper El Mercurio. \"The clients we have been able to trace were professionals who bought the drugs for personal consumption.\"Suspicious neighbours tipped off police several times in recent years, prompting a six-month investigation which led to the raid. \"You would always see fancy cars and an elderly lady hanging around them,\" an unnamed neighbour told local media.Anti-narcotic investigators, who are more accustomed to tracking youth gangs, were criticised for not acting sooner on a case which evoked Arsenic and Old Lace, the 1944 Frank Capra film about two elderly women criminals.The Chilean pair, descendants of German immigrants, were lifelong friends who used to run textile businesses. Another factor in common was that each had a criminal record.Gilbert, who was also named as Gulbert, notched up eight detention orders for bank fraud and drink-driving. Valdebenito was convicted of drug trafficking in 1998.Her son, Daniel Ried, 46, was sentenced to 20 years in jail in the 1990s for drug offences. An associate of Nicolas Escobar, scion of one of Colombia's most notorious cocaine dynasties, Ried was caught trying to smuggle furniture stashed with cocaine to Spain.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Drugs trade"], "title": "Elderly women charged with running drug business from Santiago home"},{"date": "2009-06-06T16:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the war of the Pacific in 1879, a conflict in part over access to guano for fertiliser, Chile took away Bolivia's only access to the Pacific Ocean. More than a century later, demands from Bolivia for the recuperation of this land are now louder than ever.The most recently proposed solution to the diplomatic crisis seems to be straight out of a science fiction novel: the construction of a 150km tunnel from Bolivia to an artificial island created by the excavated dirt.The tunnel, proposed by three Chilean architects, would allow for regular vehicle transport and include a gas duct to export gas (Bolivia is home to extensive natural gas reserves). Similar to many Bolivians' demands for a fully nationalised gas industry and land reform, Bolivia's call for access to the ocean is bound up in a widespread desire to recuperate looted riches and natural wealth. However, this most recent proposal falls significantly short of the full access due to Bolivia, and seems to be yet another sign that Chile is not taking Bolivia seriously in its demands.Tito Hoz de Vila, a Bolivian senator and president of the government's commission on foreign relations, said the tunnel idea was \"a mockery and insult to the intelligence of the Bolivian people\".Bolivian President Evo Morales has been a strong advocate for access to the ocean, and in recent years has been in negotiations regarding the issue with Chilean President Michelle Bachelet. Mariano Fern\u00e1ndez, the Chilean foreign minister, told reporters that he considered the tunnel plan \"an avant-garde proposal that will be interesting to hear about. \u2026 It's an important subject for Chile, very important for Bolivia and it's not easy to find ways to solve all our problems from one day to the next.\" Yet this time-consuming and expensive project is far from a solution, and more likely another way to delay action on the part of the Chileans. David Choquehuanca, the Bolivian foreign minister, said that he \"laughed a bit\" when he heard of the proposed tunnel. The minister explained: \"What's important is that even imaginative people are speaking about sea access for Bolivia.\" Choquehuanca said he would not comment further on the proposal until it is officially presented by his Chilean counterpart. After a meeting between President Bachelet and Fidel Castro in Cuba last February, Castro wrote a column in which he criticised Chile for not respecting Bolivia's demands for access to the sea. He wrote that the Chilean \"oligarchy\" has been denying Bolivia its ocean port, and that the land taken over by Chile contains the largest copper reserve in the world, providing the Chilean economy with millions of dollars each year. This is another reason Chile should simply give over the land that is indeed Bolivia's.Humberto Eliash, one of the Chilean architects proposing the tunnel, told the BBC: \"Poets say that we must build a bridge between Bolivia and the Pacific that jumps over Chile. We wanted to see if it could work in reality.\" But instead of going high above ground, Eliash and his colleagues are looking underground. The tunnel would be one of the longest in the world and take approximately a decade to complete. \"In the beginning, we thought the idea was a little crazy, but now we think it can really be viable,\" Eliash said. \"I see this as a possible dream, not madness.\"But such a plan does appear to verge on madness, especially when he proposes that the impoverished country of Bolivia should cover the tab. Taking a decade to complete would also allow politicians to simply push away responsibility for fully addressing this urgent issue. Eliash explained that many diplomatic, trade and migration-related problems are currently being resolved with tunnels in various parts of the world, including the construction of a tunnel between China and Taiwan. The architect also cited the plans to connect Spain to Morocco through a tunnel. A major challenge faced by such construction in Bolivia and Chile is financial. The architects suggest that Bolivia fund the costly project, using the profits generated by the sea port to help recover costs.According to the proposal, part of the tunnel would pass under Peru, and later resurface in the Pacific in a territory owned by Chile, Bolivia and Peru. These factors could all create political problems with Peru. And recently, Peruvian-Bolivian relations have taken a turn for the worse. Peru has made the deplorable decision of offering refuge to ex-ministers under former Bolivian President Gonzalo Sanchez de Lozada. The ex-ministers are accused by the Bolivian government of being involved in the 2003 massacre of 67people in the Gas war, a popular uprising which developed in part due to outrage over a plan to export Bolivian gas to the US through a Chilean \u2013 formerly Bolivian \u2013 port. Morales told reporters that relations with Peru are now at \"high risk\" after what he said was a \"provocation and an open aggression\" by Peruvian President Alan Garcia. The trial against Sanchez de Lozada and his cohorts began on 18 May in Bolivia.If Chile formally proposes the tunnel option, it is difficult to say what Morales's response will be. In previous speeches, he has said he will never give up fighting for Bolivia's access to the sea, and in early March promised that \"if we recuperate Bolivia's access to the sea, I promise I will dance the [traditional] Morenada dance at Carnaval.\" Yet when Morales made that promise he was talking about full access to the land and ports stolen by Chile in an unfair war over a century ago. He wasn't talking about an incredibly costly, dangerous, time-consuming and, thanks to relations with Peru, diplomatically impossible tunnel.It's time for the Chilean government to start taking its Andean neighbour seriously in its demands for recuperation of the land and resources that are rightfully Bolivian and stop suggesting proposals that will only worsen diplomatic relations, not help them.", "tags": ["Bolivia", "Chile", "Environment", "Engineering", "International trade", "World news", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Bolivia and Chile's tunnel vision | Benjamin Dangl"},{"date": "2009-06-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Hortensia Bussi de Allende, who has died aged 94 in Valpara\u00edso, was the widow of Salvador Allende, the socialist president of Chile from 1970 to 1973. Known by everyone in Chile as \"La Tencha\" (from Hortensia), she became the symbolic rallying figure of the Chilean opposition to the dictatorship of General Augusto Pinochet in the years after the 1973 coup in which her husband died. She lived for most of those years in Mexico but travelled the world to campaign against the Pinochet regime, finally returning to Chile in 1988.Hortensia Bussi was born in Valpara\u00edso, a Chilean naval port, to a well-off family. She was the daughter of an officer in Chile's prestigious merchant marine, and studied in Santiago to be a teacher.She met Allende, the socialist senator for Valpara\u00edso, in the aftermath of the Chill\u00e1n earthquake of January 1939 which destroyed the cities of Chill\u00e1n and Concepci\u00f3n and killed more than 30,000 people. The pair were involved in the campaign for those made homeless by the earthquake and married a year later. He was then, as minister of health in the Popular Front government of Pedro Aguirre Cerda, at the start of his political career.A proud, attractive and aristocratic figure, Hortensia Bussi was a non-political wife, but she accompanied him in his unsuccessful campaigns for the presidency in 1958 and 1964. She was a delightful and entertaining woman, as I discovered when I took her shopping in the King's Road, Chelsea, in the 1960s. With Allende's eventual triumph in 1970, Hortensia became the first lady of Chile, a task that she performed with elegance and grace amid the turbulent politics of the time.The determination of the US government of Richard Nixon to overthrow the Allende government, coupled with the fierce opposition of conservative forces in Chile that held a majority of seats in Congress, created an atmosphere of permanent political crisis that was not resolved until Pinochet's coup in September 1973.Although \"La Tencha\" was the first lady, it was no secret in Chile that Allende spent half the week with his diary secretary and longtime lover M\u00edriam Contreras, who had a home on the slopes of the Andes at El Ca\u00f1averal. Known as \"La Payita\", she had been a neighbour in the 1950s and became Allende's close political friend and adviser, with an office in La Moneda, the presidential palace. Her son Enrique was killed in the coup, and she went into exile in Havana, Cuba, where she kept in close touch with those members of the Allende family who were also exiled there. She died in Chile in 2002.The coup brought bombing raids on the palace and on the Allende home at Tom\u00e1s Moro by Hawker Hunter jets bought from Britain, then the pride of the Chilean air force. Hortensia Bussi survived these attacks at her home, but her husband committed suicide in the palace while under siege, a historical echo of the death in 1891 of Jos\u00e9 Manuel Balmaceda, a president who ruled in a comparable period of conflict. She was flown by the military to a secret burial for her husband in Valpara\u00edso, but the coffin was sealed and she was unable to verify the cause of death. She left immediately for Mexico, where she was greeted by the entire cabinet of President Lu\u00eds Echevarr\u00eda.The coup that overthrew Allende was in many ways the making of Hortensia Bussi. She had lived for a long time in the shadow of her unfaithful husband, and, uninterested in the perennial squabbles of the Chilean left, the coup turned her into a significant political figure in her own right. As Allende's widow, she became a famous campaigner for human rights as well as a symbol that helped to unify Chile's fractious exiles, an immense diaspora spread all over the world. She travelled to east and western Europe, to the Soviet Union and China, and to the countries of Latin America that broke free from military embrace. Everywhere she addressed meetings and conferences to keep alive the spirit of the Chilean democratic tradition. She unveiled road signs and streets named after her husband, and was even a candidate in 1977 to be rector of Glasgow University.The US was less welcoming, frequently denying her a visa and then being forced to give way after legal challenges. She remained an indefatigable campaigner, returning to Chile in 1988 as the country prepared to reject Pinochet's rule in a referendum. Elections in 1990 brought a new coalition government of which her husband's Socialist party was a member.She settled back in Chile but played no further part in public life. She was rarely seen outside her home in the subsequent two decades. Yet thousands attended her funeral last week, including President Michelle Bachelet and former presidents Ricardo Lagos and Eduardo Frei.Hortensia Bussi had three daughters with Allende: Isabel, Beatriz and Carmen Paz (the novelist Isabel Allende is a distant cousin). Prolonged exile took its toll on the family. Beatriz, known as \"Tati\", married a Cuban and lived in exile in Havana, committing suicide there in 1977, while Allende's younger sister Laura, once a Socialist party deputy for Santiago, also committed suicide there in 1981 after being diagnosed with terminal cancer.Carmen Paz and Isabel, a Socialist party deputy in Congress, survive their mother.\u2022 Mercedes Hortensia Bussi Soto de Allende, teacher and campaigner, born 22 July 1914; died 18 June 2009", "tags": ["Chile", "Human rights", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Hortensia Bussi de Allende | Obituary"},{"date": "2009-04-07T23:01:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The prime minister took a strong stance on our right to self-determination in his meeting with the Argentinian president, Cristina Kirchner, for which we are extremely grateful (Falkland Islands sovereignty talks out of the question, says Gordon Brown, 28 March).However, the otherwise excellent article does contain two statements which require clarification. It states that \"Buenos Aires would like to gain unfettered access for the relatives of Argentinian soldiers who died in the 1982 war to visit their graves on the Islands\". They already have \"unfettered\" access: restrictions on Argentinian nationals visiting the Falklands were lifted in 1999, although by then there had already been several visits by next of kin. There have been regular visits by families, veterans and tourists from Argentina, under standard immigration procedures, since then; a group of 60 veterans and families visited last month. Those wishing to visit from Argentina can do so on the weekly air link from Santiago in Chile, which stops in Rio Gallegos, Argentina, once a month.Air access is of vital importance to Falkland Islanders, but the article goes on to say that they \"want to be able to fly directly to Argentina. At the moment they have to embark on a lengthier journey to Chile.\" This is not correct. Islanders are not seeking to fly directly to Argentina, for fear that this would result in more harassment and travel restrictions. What we are seeking is a lifting of the ban on charter flights crossing Argentinian airspace from Chile, which was put in place by Argentina in 2003. We would also like to see an increase in the number of scheduled flights from Chile - currently restricted by Argentina to once a week. This would provide more capacity for the many people, of all nationalities, who wish to visit our Islands.The article reports that the prime minister \"made it clear that the constitutional future of the islands lay in the hands of the islanders, who are staunchly British\"; this is confirmed in our new constitution (which came into force on 1 January this year), initiated by the Falkland Islands government, endorsed by the UK government, and on which islanders were fully consulted. Its first chapter enshrines our inalienable right to self-determination, in accordance with the UN charter. This principle has never been accepted by Argentina as applying to the Falkland Islands.Twenty-seven years after the invasion by Argentina, we want nothing more than to have a neighbourly relationship with them. We are proud of the progress we have made in local democracy and internal self-government. Falkland Islanders have expressed their views freely and unequivocally over many years. We wish to remain British. Surely no one who supports democracy and human rights can oppose this.Yet, as the article notes, Kirchner won power in Argentina \"after promising to intensify efforts to reclaim\" the islands. The continued insistence that sovereignty talks must come before anything else is obstructive and unhelpful. There are a number of areas in which we could co-operate - to our mutual benefit - if this stance were changed.\u2022 Sukey Cameron is the UK representative of the Falklands Island government representative@falklands.gov.fk", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Politics past", "Politics", "Americas"], "title": "Response: Sukey Cameron - We Falkland Islanders unequivocally wish to remain British"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:10:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In my Glasgow garden, in sheltered, moist semi-shade, I have three Crinodendron hookerianum. This summer all the leaves on the bush in the sunniest position have lost colour, shrivelled and died, and there are yellowing and brown, dry tips on the other two plants.You can keep your rhododendrons and camellias; the Chile lantern tree is the plant that makes me long for an acidic soil. You have the rare combination of\u00a0moist, mild weather and low pH required to grow this beauty. I'm jealous. You may need to tinker to get the conditions right. Try regular, deep waterings and a\u00a0mulch. It is the bush in the sunniest spot that has suffered most, so provide more shade for the\u00a0roots with some underplanting. Consider larger plantings to guard against strong winds and excess sun. It seems a lot of fuss, but this diva is worth it.For the last few years trees have been dying around our tall acacia tree \u2013 first a magnolia, then two hedges, an apple and this year a\u00a0pear. I am worried that our amazing Victoria plum is next.I hope you are sitting down. Acacia\u00a0has some resistance to honey\u00a0fungus, but pears, apples, magnolias and \u2013 I'm sorry \u2013 plums are particularly susceptible to it. So we have the sudden death of lots\u00a0of trees, with a honey fungus-resistant one still thriving. Reaching\u00a0any conclusions yet? This is a diagnosis I\u00a0hate to give because it's devastating, and you need to investigate the roots of the dead trees to be absolutely sure. Peel back\u00a0the bark just below\u00a0ground level \u2013 if you find a\u00a0sheet of white fungus (smelling of mushrooms) below the bark, then honey fungus is the confirmed cause. You will need to remove and burn all of the stumps and as much of the roots as\u00a0possible. Don't despair, though: the RHS website has a list of resistant plants.space@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Gardening advice", "Gardens", "Life and style"], "title": "Gardening Q&A: Chile lanterns and honey fungus"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:10:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In my Glasgow garden, in sheltered, moist semi-shade, I have three Crinodendron hookerianum. This summer all the leaves on the bush in the sunniest position have lost colour, shrivelled and died, and there are yellowing and brown, dry tips on the other two plants.You can keep your rhododendrons and camellias; the Chile lantern tree is the plant that makes me long for an acidic soil. You have the rare combination of\u00a0moist, mild weather and low pH required to grow this beauty. I'm jealous. You may need to tinker to get the conditions right. Try regular, deep waterings and a\u00a0mulch. It is the bush in the sunniest spot that has suffered most, so provide more shade for the\u00a0roots with some underplanting. Consider larger plantings to guard against strong winds and excess sun. It seems a lot of fuss, but this diva is worth it.For the last few years trees have been dying around our tall acacia tree \u2013 first a magnolia, then two hedges, an apple and this year a\u00a0pear. I am worried that our amazing Victoria plum is next.I hope you are sitting down. Acacia\u00a0has some resistance to honey\u00a0fungus, but pears, apples, magnolias and \u2013 I'm sorry \u2013 plums are particularly susceptible to it. So we have the sudden death of lots\u00a0of trees, with a honey fungus-resistant one still thriving. Reaching\u00a0any conclusions yet? This is a diagnosis I\u00a0hate to give because it's devastating, and you need to investigate the roots of the dead trees to be absolutely sure. Peel back\u00a0the bark just below\u00a0ground level \u2013 if you find a\u00a0sheet of white fungus (smelling of mushrooms) below the bark, then honey fungus is the confirmed cause. You will need to remove and burn all of the stumps and as much of the roots as\u00a0possible. Don't despair, though: the RHS website has a list of resistant plants.space@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Gardening advice", "Gardens", "Life and style"], "title": "Gardening Q&A: Chile lanterns and honey fungus"},{"date": "2009-09-12T00:43:21Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is today in the grip of a military regime, with every indication early this morning that President Salvador Allende had committed suicide after the presidential palace had been subjected to air and ground attacks. Early yesterday morning a military junta of senior officers demanded Allende's resignation, and when he refused the palace was attacked.The military said they had acted \"to liberate the country from Marxism.\" In a final broadcast, Allende called on the workers to occupy the factories and to arm themselves, but apart from sporadic sniping in the centre of Santiago, there appears to have been little organised resistance to the coup. Unconfirmed reports said that thousands of workers were marching on the city centre.In New York, copper futures traded on the commodity exchange rose as the market reacted favourably to the news of Allende's downfall. In Paris, left-wing parties called for a protest march to the Chilean Embassy. Similar demonstrations are expected in London today. A Chilean reporter speaking by telephone to an Argentine radio station, said the President's death had been confirmed by a military spokesman. He was believed to have shot himself in the head when the military tried to arrest him.If Allende has indeed committed suicide, it will be designed to warn the country of what happened in 1891 when President Balmaceda was forced to do the same thing after a disastrous conflict between President and Congress, which led to a civil war. It is this same conflict which has brought about the present situation.Allende himself constantly warned that the country's political strife was leading in the same direction. He claimed that he would never be \"another Balmaceda,\" but he also said that he would never be taken from office alive.The new military regime, whose most prominent figure would appear to be Admiral Jorge Toribio Merino \u2013 who has proclaimed himself Commander in Chief of the Chilean Navy \u2013 has a markedly conservative tone.All radio stations supporting the Allende Government have been taken over, the headquarters of the Communist Party have been raided, and the detention of 40 prominent figures in the Popular Unity Coalition, which supported Allende, has been ordered.The ground attack on the presidential palace was confined to light and heavy machine gun fire, but bombs dropped from the air set fire to part of the building.Fire brigades were told to await orders from the military before leaving to put out the fire. The air attack came after Allende's presidential guard and his civilian aides had surrendered to an ultimatum which Allende himself defied.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "From the archive, 12 September 1973: Allende 'dead' as generals seize power"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:10:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In my Glasgow garden, in sheltered, moist semi-shade, I have three Crinodendron hookerianum. This summer all the leaves on the bush in the sunniest position have lost colour, shrivelled and died, and there are yellowing and brown, dry tips on the other two plants.You can keep your rhododendrons and camellias; the Chile lantern tree is the plant that makes me long for an acidic soil. You have the rare combination of\u00a0moist, mild weather and low pH required to grow this beauty. I'm jealous. You may need to tinker to get the conditions right. Try regular, deep waterings and a\u00a0mulch. It is the bush in the sunniest spot that has suffered most, so provide more shade for the\u00a0roots with some underplanting. Consider larger plantings to guard against strong winds and excess sun. It seems a lot of fuss, but this diva is worth it.For the last few years trees have been dying around our tall acacia tree \u2013 first a magnolia, then two hedges, an apple and this year a\u00a0pear. I am worried that our amazing Victoria plum is next.I hope you are sitting down. Acacia\u00a0has some resistance to honey\u00a0fungus, but pears, apples, magnolias and \u2013 I'm sorry \u2013 plums are particularly susceptible to it. So we have the sudden death of lots\u00a0of trees, with a honey fungus-resistant one still thriving. Reaching\u00a0any conclusions yet? This is a diagnosis I\u00a0hate to give because it's devastating, and you need to investigate the roots of the dead trees to be absolutely sure. Peel back\u00a0the bark just below\u00a0ground level \u2013 if you find a\u00a0sheet of white fungus (smelling of mushrooms) below the bark, then honey fungus is the confirmed cause. You will need to remove and burn all of the stumps and as much of the roots as\u00a0possible. Don't despair, though: the RHS website has a list of resistant plants.space@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Gardening advice", "Gardens", "Life and style"], "title": "Gardening Q&A: Chile lanterns and honey fungus"},{"date": "2009-09-12T00:43:21Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is today in the grip of a military regime, with every indication early this morning that President Salvador Allende had committed suicide after the presidential palace had been subjected to air and ground attacks. Early yesterday morning a military junta of senior officers demanded Allende's resignation, and when he refused the palace was attacked.The military said they had acted \"to liberate the country from Marxism.\" In a final broadcast, Allende called on the workers to occupy the factories and to arm themselves, but apart from sporadic sniping in the centre of Santiago, there appears to have been little organised resistance to the coup. Unconfirmed reports said that thousands of workers were marching on the city centre.In New York, copper futures traded on the commodity exchange rose as the market reacted favourably to the news of Allende's downfall. In Paris, left-wing parties called for a protest march to the Chilean Embassy. Similar demonstrations are expected in London today. A Chilean reporter speaking by telephone to an Argentine radio station, said the President's death had been confirmed by a military spokesman. He was believed to have shot himself in the head when the military tried to arrest him.If Allende has indeed committed suicide, it will be designed to warn the country of what happened in 1891 when President Balmaceda was forced to do the same thing after a disastrous conflict between President and Congress, which led to a civil war. It is this same conflict which has brought about the present situation.Allende himself constantly warned that the country's political strife was leading in the same direction. He claimed that he would never be \"another Balmaceda,\" but he also said that he would never be taken from office alive.The new military regime, whose most prominent figure would appear to be Admiral Jorge Toribio Merino \u2013 who has proclaimed himself Commander in Chief of the Chilean Navy \u2013 has a markedly conservative tone.All radio stations supporting the Allende Government have been taken over, the headquarters of the Communist Party have been raided, and the detention of 40 prominent figures in the Popular Unity Coalition, which supported Allende, has been ordered.The ground attack on the presidential palace was confined to light and heavy machine gun fire, but bombs dropped from the air set fire to part of the building.Fire brigades were told to await orders from the military before leaving to put out the fire. The air attack came after Allende's presidential guard and his civilian aides had surrendered to an ultimatum which Allende himself defied.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "From the archive, 12 September 1973: Allende 'dead' as generals seize power"},{"date": "2009-09-30T09:07:48Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The tsunami that killed dozens of people in the Pacific islands of Samoa and American Samoa, and sent smaller waves to the east coast of Japan almost 5,000 miles away, was caused by a huge subsea earthquake.A tsunami \u2013 literally \"harbour wave\" in Japanese \u2013 is typically caused by seismic activity under the seafloor that sends fast-travelling waves to shore, sometimes with devastating consequences.A powerful, shallow earthquake occurring under the sea can create waves that move at speeds of up to 500-600 miles per hour. As they approach the shore, the waves, though almost imperceptible in the open sea, slow and swell to heights of 10 metres or more.While ordinary sea waves involve only the top layer of water, tsunamis comprise entire columns of water stretching to the ocean floor. They can travel several hundred miles, and the most powerful across entire oceans.The use of \"tidal wave\" to describe tsunami has fallen out of favour: tsunami are not caused by tidal movements. Aside from earthquakes, they can be caused by volcanic eruptions, underwater explosions, landslides and other factors.Experts believe major tsunamis occur every 10 years. Historically, almost 60% have occurred in the Pacific ocean, 25% in the Mediterranean and 12% in the Atlantic. The Indian ocean, scene of a huge tsunami that killed 230,000 people in 12 countries in December 2004, accounts for only 4% of recorded major tsunamis.The largest recorded earthquake, of magnitude 9.5, which struck Chile in 1960, generated tsunamis that killed people as far away as Hawaii and Japan.Not all tsunamis involve giant waves, however. The waves that reached the Japanese island of Hachijojima today, 10 hours after the earthquake, were described as \"very weak\" by the country's meteorological agency.", "tags": ["Samoa", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Japan", "World news", "Tonga", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Explainer: Samoa tsunami"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:10:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In my Glasgow garden, in sheltered, moist semi-shade, I have three Crinodendron hookerianum. This summer all the leaves on the bush in the sunniest position have lost colour, shrivelled and died, and there are yellowing and brown, dry tips on the other two plants.You can keep your rhododendrons and camellias; the Chile lantern tree is the plant that makes me long for an acidic soil. You have the rare combination of\u00a0moist, mild weather and low pH required to grow this beauty. I'm jealous. You may need to tinker to get the conditions right. Try regular, deep waterings and a\u00a0mulch. It is the bush in the sunniest spot that has suffered most, so provide more shade for the\u00a0roots with some underplanting. Consider larger plantings to guard against strong winds and excess sun. It seems a lot of fuss, but this diva is worth it.For the last few years trees have been dying around our tall acacia tree \u2013 first a magnolia, then two hedges, an apple and this year a\u00a0pear. I am worried that our amazing Victoria plum is next.I hope you are sitting down. Acacia\u00a0has some resistance to honey\u00a0fungus, but pears, apples, magnolias and \u2013 I'm sorry \u2013 plums are particularly susceptible to it. So we have the sudden death of lots\u00a0of trees, with a honey fungus-resistant one still thriving. Reaching\u00a0any conclusions yet? This is a diagnosis I\u00a0hate to give because it's devastating, and you need to investigate the roots of the dead trees to be absolutely sure. Peel back\u00a0the bark just below\u00a0ground level \u2013 if you find a\u00a0sheet of white fungus (smelling of mushrooms) below the bark, then honey fungus is the confirmed cause. You will need to remove and burn all of the stumps and as much of the roots as\u00a0possible. Don't despair, though: the RHS website has a list of resistant plants.space@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Gardening advice", "Gardens", "Life and style"], "title": "Gardening Q&A: Chile lanterns and honey fungus"},{"date": "2009-09-12T00:43:21Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is today in the grip of a military regime, with every indication early this morning that President Salvador Allende had committed suicide after the presidential palace had been subjected to air and ground attacks. Early yesterday morning a military junta of senior officers demanded Allende's resignation, and when he refused the palace was attacked.The military said they had acted \"to liberate the country from Marxism.\" In a final broadcast, Allende called on the workers to occupy the factories and to arm themselves, but apart from sporadic sniping in the centre of Santiago, there appears to have been little organised resistance to the coup. Unconfirmed reports said that thousands of workers were marching on the city centre.In New York, copper futures traded on the commodity exchange rose as the market reacted favourably to the news of Allende's downfall. In Paris, left-wing parties called for a protest march to the Chilean Embassy. Similar demonstrations are expected in London today. A Chilean reporter speaking by telephone to an Argentine radio station, said the President's death had been confirmed by a military spokesman. He was believed to have shot himself in the head when the military tried to arrest him.If Allende has indeed committed suicide, it will be designed to warn the country of what happened in 1891 when President Balmaceda was forced to do the same thing after a disastrous conflict between President and Congress, which led to a civil war. It is this same conflict which has brought about the present situation.Allende himself constantly warned that the country's political strife was leading in the same direction. He claimed that he would never be \"another Balmaceda,\" but he also said that he would never be taken from office alive.The new military regime, whose most prominent figure would appear to be Admiral Jorge Toribio Merino \u2013 who has proclaimed himself Commander in Chief of the Chilean Navy \u2013 has a markedly conservative tone.All radio stations supporting the Allende Government have been taken over, the headquarters of the Communist Party have been raided, and the detention of 40 prominent figures in the Popular Unity Coalition, which supported Allende, has been ordered.The ground attack on the presidential palace was confined to light and heavy machine gun fire, but bombs dropped from the air set fire to part of the building.Fire brigades were told to await orders from the military before leaving to put out the fire. The air attack came after Allende's presidential guard and his civilian aides had surrendered to an ultimatum which Allende himself defied.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "From the archive, 12 September 1973: Allende 'dead' as generals seize power"},{"date": "2009-09-30T09:07:48Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The tsunami that killed dozens of people in the Pacific islands of Samoa and American Samoa, and sent smaller waves to the east coast of Japan almost 5,000 miles away, was caused by a huge subsea earthquake.A tsunami \u2013 literally \"harbour wave\" in Japanese \u2013 is typically caused by seismic activity under the seafloor that sends fast-travelling waves to shore, sometimes with devastating consequences.A powerful, shallow earthquake occurring under the sea can create waves that move at speeds of up to 500-600 miles per hour. As they approach the shore, the waves, though almost imperceptible in the open sea, slow and swell to heights of 10 metres or more.While ordinary sea waves involve only the top layer of water, tsunamis comprise entire columns of water stretching to the ocean floor. They can travel several hundred miles, and the most powerful across entire oceans.The use of \"tidal wave\" to describe tsunami has fallen out of favour: tsunami are not caused by tidal movements. Aside from earthquakes, they can be caused by volcanic eruptions, underwater explosions, landslides and other factors.Experts believe major tsunamis occur every 10 years. Historically, almost 60% have occurred in the Pacific ocean, 25% in the Mediterranean and 12% in the Atlantic. The Indian ocean, scene of a huge tsunami that killed 230,000 people in 12 countries in December 2004, accounts for only 4% of recorded major tsunamis.The largest recorded earthquake, of magnitude 9.5, which struck Chile in 1960, generated tsunamis that killed people as far away as Hawaii and Japan.Not all tsunamis involve giant waves, however. The waves that reached the Japanese island of Hachijojima today, 10 hours after the earthquake, were described as \"very weak\" by the country's meteorological agency.", "tags": ["Samoa", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Japan", "World news", "Tonga", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Explainer: Samoa tsunami"},{"date": "2009-09-15T19:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "On the campaign trail, Barack Obama said: \"I voted against Cafta, never supported Nafta and will not support Nafta-style trade agreements in the future.\" The now president has released a statement saying he will unveil the administration's trade policy agenda ahead of the G20 meeting in late September. This is welcome news, given that the Obama administration has been slow to move on this pressing issue \u2013 so much so that some critics have suggested that Obama has abandoned this core campaign pledge.As the administration rightly put top focus on Afghanistan, Iraq and healthcare, Congress has been paving the way for a comprehensive trade reform package that is now ready for the president to incorporate into his new agenda.Last month the government accountability office assessed the impact of Nafta-style trade agreements with Jordan, Chile, Singapore and Morocco. The key findings are that trade increased between the US and these partners, but labour and environmental records were poor. In Chile for example, promised US funds for labour and environmental monitoring hardly materialised and \"consistently stymied efforts to provide Chile FTA-related technical assistance and cooperation\".The report is welcome but fails to analyse some other very important aspects of these agreements. The GAO's indicator of economic success is that trade and investment with these countries increased significantly since the agreements went into force. Mexico's experience shows that increased trade and investment may not translate into increased growth and welfare. Yet, the GAO report falls short of analysing the full impact of the agreements on growth and development.More importantly, the newly introduced Trade Reform, Accountability, Development and Employment Act (Trade Act) of 2009 would strengthen the GAO's approach by looking at the economic, environmental, labour and developmental impacts of Nafta and other recent trade agreements. What's more, the bill would put in place a process of fixing previous trade agreements and forging new ones based on the GAO assessment. Fixing trade is too important for it to become the next healthcare gridlock. The world needs to begin trading again, and in a manner that enhances economic growth and development. According to the IMF's recent World Economic Outlook, world trade is projected to decline by 12.2% in 2009. Closer to home, the longer our third-largest trading partner suffers, the longer we do.That would be Mexico, the nation most hard hit by Nafta and the financial crisis. Despite the fact that Mexico's exports and foreign investment close to tripled under Nafta, Mexico's economy only grew at an annual per capita rate of approximately 1.5%. Foreign investment wiped out local firms, so domestic investment slid to 19% of GDP, compared to a pre-Nafta level of 24% of GDP. This is why growth has been so poor in Mexico, say Juan Carlos Moreno-Brid and Jaime Ros in their new book Development and Growth in the Mexican Economy.And that's when the going was good. Mexico has been among the worst hit by the crisis. Industrial production has declined by over 10% this year, and the economy as a whole is projected to shrink by 7.1% despite the frantic effort to save the economy. Mexico's central bank has spent close to $30bn of its reserves to save the peso since the crisis hit. According to Bloomberg News, Mexico has been selling $50m daily and $250m when the peso weakens more than 2% in a day, as it has this week.Here in the US, Nafta is blamed for job loss, for putting pressure on wages and for increasing the trade deficit. What's more, critics decry that the investment and services provisions in Nafta-style agreements allow investors and governments to sue the US for its legislation on the environment and public health. Consistent with his campaign promise, Obama should pledge to review Nafta and its clones, fix them where they are not working and create a new template for future agreements. With the Trade Act's initial set of over 100 co-sponsors, the president can add to the momentum fuelled by Congress on trade since he took office.", "tags": ["International trade", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Global economy", "US politics", "Global development", "Politics", "Americas"], "title": "Fix America's trade regime | Kevin Gallagher"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:10:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In my Glasgow garden, in sheltered, moist semi-shade, I have three Crinodendron hookerianum. This summer all the leaves on the bush in the sunniest position have lost colour, shrivelled and died, and there are yellowing and brown, dry tips on the other two plants.You can keep your rhododendrons and camellias; the Chile lantern tree is the plant that makes me long for an acidic soil. You have the rare combination of\u00a0moist, mild weather and low pH required to grow this beauty. I'm jealous. You may need to tinker to get the conditions right. Try regular, deep waterings and a\u00a0mulch. It is the bush in the sunniest spot that has suffered most, so provide more shade for the\u00a0roots with some underplanting. Consider larger plantings to guard against strong winds and excess sun. It seems a lot of fuss, but this diva is worth it.For the last few years trees have been dying around our tall acacia tree \u2013 first a magnolia, then two hedges, an apple and this year a\u00a0pear. I am worried that our amazing Victoria plum is next.I hope you are sitting down. Acacia\u00a0has some resistance to honey\u00a0fungus, but pears, apples, magnolias and \u2013 I'm sorry \u2013 plums are particularly susceptible to it. So we have the sudden death of lots\u00a0of trees, with a honey fungus-resistant one still thriving. Reaching\u00a0any conclusions yet? This is a diagnosis I\u00a0hate to give because it's devastating, and you need to investigate the roots of the dead trees to be absolutely sure. Peel back\u00a0the bark just below\u00a0ground level \u2013 if you find a\u00a0sheet of white fungus (smelling of mushrooms) below the bark, then honey fungus is the confirmed cause. You will need to remove and burn all of the stumps and as much of the roots as\u00a0possible. Don't despair, though: the RHS website has a list of resistant plants.space@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Gardening advice", "Gardens", "Life and style"], "title": "Gardening Q&A: Chile lanterns and honey fungus"},{"date": "2009-09-12T00:43:21Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is today in the grip of a military regime, with every indication early this morning that President Salvador Allende had committed suicide after the presidential palace had been subjected to air and ground attacks. Early yesterday morning a military junta of senior officers demanded Allende's resignation, and when he refused the palace was attacked.The military said they had acted \"to liberate the country from Marxism.\" In a final broadcast, Allende called on the workers to occupy the factories and to arm themselves, but apart from sporadic sniping in the centre of Santiago, there appears to have been little organised resistance to the coup. Unconfirmed reports said that thousands of workers were marching on the city centre.In New York, copper futures traded on the commodity exchange rose as the market reacted favourably to the news of Allende's downfall. In Paris, left-wing parties called for a protest march to the Chilean Embassy. Similar demonstrations are expected in London today. A Chilean reporter speaking by telephone to an Argentine radio station, said the President's death had been confirmed by a military spokesman. He was believed to have shot himself in the head when the military tried to arrest him.If Allende has indeed committed suicide, it will be designed to warn the country of what happened in 1891 when President Balmaceda was forced to do the same thing after a disastrous conflict between President and Congress, which led to a civil war. It is this same conflict which has brought about the present situation.Allende himself constantly warned that the country's political strife was leading in the same direction. He claimed that he would never be \"another Balmaceda,\" but he also said that he would never be taken from office alive.The new military regime, whose most prominent figure would appear to be Admiral Jorge Toribio Merino \u2013 who has proclaimed himself Commander in Chief of the Chilean Navy \u2013 has a markedly conservative tone.All radio stations supporting the Allende Government have been taken over, the headquarters of the Communist Party have been raided, and the detention of 40 prominent figures in the Popular Unity Coalition, which supported Allende, has been ordered.The ground attack on the presidential palace was confined to light and heavy machine gun fire, but bombs dropped from the air set fire to part of the building.Fire brigades were told to await orders from the military before leaving to put out the fire. The air attack came after Allende's presidential guard and his civilian aides had surrendered to an ultimatum which Allende himself defied.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "From the archive, 12 September 1973: Allende 'dead' as generals seize power"},{"date": "2009-09-30T09:07:48Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The tsunami that killed dozens of people in the Pacific islands of Samoa and American Samoa, and sent smaller waves to the east coast of Japan almost 5,000 miles away, was caused by a huge subsea earthquake.A tsunami \u2013 literally \"harbour wave\" in Japanese \u2013 is typically caused by seismic activity under the seafloor that sends fast-travelling waves to shore, sometimes with devastating consequences.A powerful, shallow earthquake occurring under the sea can create waves that move at speeds of up to 500-600 miles per hour. As they approach the shore, the waves, though almost imperceptible in the open sea, slow and swell to heights of 10 metres or more.While ordinary sea waves involve only the top layer of water, tsunamis comprise entire columns of water stretching to the ocean floor. They can travel several hundred miles, and the most powerful across entire oceans.The use of \"tidal wave\" to describe tsunami has fallen out of favour: tsunami are not caused by tidal movements. Aside from earthquakes, they can be caused by volcanic eruptions, underwater explosions, landslides and other factors.Experts believe major tsunamis occur every 10 years. Historically, almost 60% have occurred in the Pacific ocean, 25% in the Mediterranean and 12% in the Atlantic. The Indian ocean, scene of a huge tsunami that killed 230,000 people in 12 countries in December 2004, accounts for only 4% of recorded major tsunamis.The largest recorded earthquake, of magnitude 9.5, which struck Chile in 1960, generated tsunamis that killed people as far away as Hawaii and Japan.Not all tsunamis involve giant waves, however. The waves that reached the Japanese island of Hachijojima today, 10 hours after the earthquake, were described as \"very weak\" by the country's meteorological agency.", "tags": ["Samoa", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Japan", "World news", "Tonga", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Explainer: Samoa tsunami"},{"date": "2009-09-15T19:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "On the campaign trail, Barack Obama said: \"I voted against Cafta, never supported Nafta and will not support Nafta-style trade agreements in the future.\" The now president has released a statement saying he will unveil the administration's trade policy agenda ahead of the G20 meeting in late September. This is welcome news, given that the Obama administration has been slow to move on this pressing issue \u2013 so much so that some critics have suggested that Obama has abandoned this core campaign pledge.As the administration rightly put top focus on Afghanistan, Iraq and healthcare, Congress has been paving the way for a comprehensive trade reform package that is now ready for the president to incorporate into his new agenda.Last month the government accountability office assessed the impact of Nafta-style trade agreements with Jordan, Chile, Singapore and Morocco. The key findings are that trade increased between the US and these partners, but labour and environmental records were poor. In Chile for example, promised US funds for labour and environmental monitoring hardly materialised and \"consistently stymied efforts to provide Chile FTA-related technical assistance and cooperation\".The report is welcome but fails to analyse some other very important aspects of these agreements. The GAO's indicator of economic success is that trade and investment with these countries increased significantly since the agreements went into force. Mexico's experience shows that increased trade and investment may not translate into increased growth and welfare. Yet, the GAO report falls short of analysing the full impact of the agreements on growth and development.More importantly, the newly introduced Trade Reform, Accountability, Development and Employment Act (Trade Act) of 2009 would strengthen the GAO's approach by looking at the economic, environmental, labour and developmental impacts of Nafta and other recent trade agreements. What's more, the bill would put in place a process of fixing previous trade agreements and forging new ones based on the GAO assessment. Fixing trade is too important for it to become the next healthcare gridlock. The world needs to begin trading again, and in a manner that enhances economic growth and development. According to the IMF's recent World Economic Outlook, world trade is projected to decline by 12.2% in 2009. Closer to home, the longer our third-largest trading partner suffers, the longer we do.That would be Mexico, the nation most hard hit by Nafta and the financial crisis. Despite the fact that Mexico's exports and foreign investment close to tripled under Nafta, Mexico's economy only grew at an annual per capita rate of approximately 1.5%. Foreign investment wiped out local firms, so domestic investment slid to 19% of GDP, compared to a pre-Nafta level of 24% of GDP. This is why growth has been so poor in Mexico, say Juan Carlos Moreno-Brid and Jaime Ros in their new book Development and Growth in the Mexican Economy.And that's when the going was good. Mexico has been among the worst hit by the crisis. Industrial production has declined by over 10% this year, and the economy as a whole is projected to shrink by 7.1% despite the frantic effort to save the economy. Mexico's central bank has spent close to $30bn of its reserves to save the peso since the crisis hit. According to Bloomberg News, Mexico has been selling $50m daily and $250m when the peso weakens more than 2% in a day, as it has this week.Here in the US, Nafta is blamed for job loss, for putting pressure on wages and for increasing the trade deficit. What's more, critics decry that the investment and services provisions in Nafta-style agreements allow investors and governments to sue the US for its legislation on the environment and public health. Consistent with his campaign promise, Obama should pledge to review Nafta and its clones, fix them where they are not working and create a new template for future agreements. With the Trade Act's initial set of over 100 co-sponsors, the president can add to the momentum fuelled by Congress on trade since he took office.", "tags": ["International trade", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Global economy", "US politics", "Global development", "Politics", "Americas"], "title": "Fix America's trade regime | Kevin Gallagher"},{"date": "2009-08-05T18:38:11Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Deaths from swine flu in Argentina have more than doubled to 337 in the past month, a rate which could see it soon overtake the United States as the worst affected country.Figures released today showed a dramatic surge in deaths from the 137 reported on 14 July, according to the health ministry, though authorities believe the epidemic has peaked and will ebb with the passing of the southern hemisphere's winter.Another 400 deaths are being studied as suspected cases of A(H1N1) swine-type flu.\"We have to say that given the epidemiological tendency it is very probable that the majority of those 400 deaths are from H1N1,\" said the deputy health minister, Maximo Diosque.Swine flu had almost completely replaced normal seasonal flu, he added. Of 762,711 cases more than 700,000 - 93% - were swine flu.Argentina now accounts for about a quarter of the world's reported death toll. If most of the suspected cases are confirmed as A(H1N1) the South American nation will overtake the US, which hcurrently has 353 confirmed deaths.Argentina's neighbours have reported much lower fatalities: Chile 96; Brasil 92; Uruguay 25; and Paraguay 22. Mexico, which first reported the outbreak, has registered 146 deaths.Today's announcement was another setback for Argentina's faltering econonomy. Tourism revenues have reportedly halved, with restaurants, theatres, tango halls and Patagonian ski resorts unusually quiet. Buenos Aires alone has lost \u00a3600m, according to its small business association.Despite the death toll, authorities expressed optimism the worst was over. The epidemic spread so widely that by now there are now thought to be fewer vulnerable people left to infect. The numbers reporting flu symptoms have steadily dropped and beds have again become available in clinics and hospitals.Restrictions introduced last month have been lifted. Schools, universities, cinemas, theatres and gymnasiums have re-opened and fewer people are wearing surgical masks.The Catholic church had urged worshippers to sit far apart and to avoid handshakes during mass. Doctors advised people to not greet each other with a kiss and to not share mate, a herbal drink traditionally drunk from a straw and passed between friends.It was not immediately clear if the updated death toll would prompt renewed restrictions. The good news from Argentina is that its strain has not mutated and turned especially deadly. Genetic sequencing shows its swine flu remains virtually identical to the strain seen in Mexico and the US, boosting chances that a single vaccine can work everywhere.Medical experts have been relieved to see no signs of resistance to antiviral drugs even though the government distributed 2m courses of Tamiflu free to public hospitals. That suggests the drug will remain effective in northern hemisphere countries bracing for winter.The British Foreign Office's travel advice, updated last month, does not urge Britons to stay away but warns that there is a risk of infection and financial cost. \"Medical facilities are good, but can be expensive.\"Brazil's government has advised against travel to Argentina and Chile.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Swine flu", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Flu", "Health & wellbeing", "Epidemics"], "title": "Argentina swine flu deaths double to 337"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:10:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In my Glasgow garden, in sheltered, moist semi-shade, I have three Crinodendron hookerianum. This summer all the leaves on the bush in the sunniest position have lost colour, shrivelled and died, and there are yellowing and brown, dry tips on the other two plants.You can keep your rhododendrons and camellias; the Chile lantern tree is the plant that makes me long for an acidic soil. You have the rare combination of\u00a0moist, mild weather and low pH required to grow this beauty. I'm jealous. You may need to tinker to get the conditions right. Try regular, deep waterings and a\u00a0mulch. It is the bush in the sunniest spot that has suffered most, so provide more shade for the\u00a0roots with some underplanting. Consider larger plantings to guard against strong winds and excess sun. It seems a lot of fuss, but this diva is worth it.For the last few years trees have been dying around our tall acacia tree \u2013 first a magnolia, then two hedges, an apple and this year a\u00a0pear. I am worried that our amazing Victoria plum is next.I hope you are sitting down. Acacia\u00a0has some resistance to honey\u00a0fungus, but pears, apples, magnolias and \u2013 I'm sorry \u2013 plums are particularly susceptible to it. So we have the sudden death of lots\u00a0of trees, with a honey fungus-resistant one still thriving. Reaching\u00a0any conclusions yet? This is a diagnosis I\u00a0hate to give because it's devastating, and you need to investigate the roots of the dead trees to be absolutely sure. Peel back\u00a0the bark just below\u00a0ground level \u2013 if you find a\u00a0sheet of white fungus (smelling of mushrooms) below the bark, then honey fungus is the confirmed cause. You will need to remove and burn all of the stumps and as much of the roots as\u00a0possible. Don't despair, though: the RHS website has a list of resistant plants.space@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Gardening advice", "Gardens", "Life and style"], "title": "Gardening Q&A: Chile lanterns and honey fungus"},{"date": "2009-09-12T00:43:21Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is today in the grip of a military regime, with every indication early this morning that President Salvador Allende had committed suicide after the presidential palace had been subjected to air and ground attacks. Early yesterday morning a military junta of senior officers demanded Allende's resignation, and when he refused the palace was attacked.The military said they had acted \"to liberate the country from Marxism.\" In a final broadcast, Allende called on the workers to occupy the factories and to arm themselves, but apart from sporadic sniping in the centre of Santiago, there appears to have been little organised resistance to the coup. Unconfirmed reports said that thousands of workers were marching on the city centre.In New York, copper futures traded on the commodity exchange rose as the market reacted favourably to the news of Allende's downfall. In Paris, left-wing parties called for a protest march to the Chilean Embassy. Similar demonstrations are expected in London today. A Chilean reporter speaking by telephone to an Argentine radio station, said the President's death had been confirmed by a military spokesman. He was believed to have shot himself in the head when the military tried to arrest him.If Allende has indeed committed suicide, it will be designed to warn the country of what happened in 1891 when President Balmaceda was forced to do the same thing after a disastrous conflict between President and Congress, which led to a civil war. It is this same conflict which has brought about the present situation.Allende himself constantly warned that the country's political strife was leading in the same direction. He claimed that he would never be \"another Balmaceda,\" but he also said that he would never be taken from office alive.The new military regime, whose most prominent figure would appear to be Admiral Jorge Toribio Merino \u2013 who has proclaimed himself Commander in Chief of the Chilean Navy \u2013 has a markedly conservative tone.All radio stations supporting the Allende Government have been taken over, the headquarters of the Communist Party have been raided, and the detention of 40 prominent figures in the Popular Unity Coalition, which supported Allende, has been ordered.The ground attack on the presidential palace was confined to light and heavy machine gun fire, but bombs dropped from the air set fire to part of the building.Fire brigades were told to await orders from the military before leaving to put out the fire. The air attack came after Allende's presidential guard and his civilian aides had surrendered to an ultimatum which Allende himself defied.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "From the archive, 12 September 1973: Allende 'dead' as generals seize power"},{"date": "2009-09-30T09:07:48Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The tsunami that killed dozens of people in the Pacific islands of Samoa and American Samoa, and sent smaller waves to the east coast of Japan almost 5,000 miles away, was caused by a huge subsea earthquake.A tsunami \u2013 literally \"harbour wave\" in Japanese \u2013 is typically caused by seismic activity under the seafloor that sends fast-travelling waves to shore, sometimes with devastating consequences.A powerful, shallow earthquake occurring under the sea can create waves that move at speeds of up to 500-600 miles per hour. As they approach the shore, the waves, though almost imperceptible in the open sea, slow and swell to heights of 10 metres or more.While ordinary sea waves involve only the top layer of water, tsunamis comprise entire columns of water stretching to the ocean floor. They can travel several hundred miles, and the most powerful across entire oceans.The use of \"tidal wave\" to describe tsunami has fallen out of favour: tsunami are not caused by tidal movements. Aside from earthquakes, they can be caused by volcanic eruptions, underwater explosions, landslides and other factors.Experts believe major tsunamis occur every 10 years. Historically, almost 60% have occurred in the Pacific ocean, 25% in the Mediterranean and 12% in the Atlantic. The Indian ocean, scene of a huge tsunami that killed 230,000 people in 12 countries in December 2004, accounts for only 4% of recorded major tsunamis.The largest recorded earthquake, of magnitude 9.5, which struck Chile in 1960, generated tsunamis that killed people as far away as Hawaii and Japan.Not all tsunamis involve giant waves, however. The waves that reached the Japanese island of Hachijojima today, 10 hours after the earthquake, were described as \"very weak\" by the country's meteorological agency.", "tags": ["Samoa", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Japan", "World news", "Tonga", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Explainer: Samoa tsunami"},{"date": "2009-09-15T19:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "On the campaign trail, Barack Obama said: \"I voted against Cafta, never supported Nafta and will not support Nafta-style trade agreements in the future.\" The now president has released a statement saying he will unveil the administration's trade policy agenda ahead of the G20 meeting in late September. This is welcome news, given that the Obama administration has been slow to move on this pressing issue \u2013 so much so that some critics have suggested that Obama has abandoned this core campaign pledge.As the administration rightly put top focus on Afghanistan, Iraq and healthcare, Congress has been paving the way for a comprehensive trade reform package that is now ready for the president to incorporate into his new agenda.Last month the government accountability office assessed the impact of Nafta-style trade agreements with Jordan, Chile, Singapore and Morocco. The key findings are that trade increased between the US and these partners, but labour and environmental records were poor. In Chile for example, promised US funds for labour and environmental monitoring hardly materialised and \"consistently stymied efforts to provide Chile FTA-related technical assistance and cooperation\".The report is welcome but fails to analyse some other very important aspects of these agreements. The GAO's indicator of economic success is that trade and investment with these countries increased significantly since the agreements went into force. Mexico's experience shows that increased trade and investment may not translate into increased growth and welfare. Yet, the GAO report falls short of analysing the full impact of the agreements on growth and development.More importantly, the newly introduced Trade Reform, Accountability, Development and Employment Act (Trade Act) of 2009 would strengthen the GAO's approach by looking at the economic, environmental, labour and developmental impacts of Nafta and other recent trade agreements. What's more, the bill would put in place a process of fixing previous trade agreements and forging new ones based on the GAO assessment. Fixing trade is too important for it to become the next healthcare gridlock. The world needs to begin trading again, and in a manner that enhances economic growth and development. According to the IMF's recent World Economic Outlook, world trade is projected to decline by 12.2% in 2009. Closer to home, the longer our third-largest trading partner suffers, the longer we do.That would be Mexico, the nation most hard hit by Nafta and the financial crisis. Despite the fact that Mexico's exports and foreign investment close to tripled under Nafta, Mexico's economy only grew at an annual per capita rate of approximately 1.5%. Foreign investment wiped out local firms, so domestic investment slid to 19% of GDP, compared to a pre-Nafta level of 24% of GDP. This is why growth has been so poor in Mexico, say Juan Carlos Moreno-Brid and Jaime Ros in their new book Development and Growth in the Mexican Economy.And that's when the going was good. Mexico has been among the worst hit by the crisis. Industrial production has declined by over 10% this year, and the economy as a whole is projected to shrink by 7.1% despite the frantic effort to save the economy. Mexico's central bank has spent close to $30bn of its reserves to save the peso since the crisis hit. According to Bloomberg News, Mexico has been selling $50m daily and $250m when the peso weakens more than 2% in a day, as it has this week.Here in the US, Nafta is blamed for job loss, for putting pressure on wages and for increasing the trade deficit. What's more, critics decry that the investment and services provisions in Nafta-style agreements allow investors and governments to sue the US for its legislation on the environment and public health. Consistent with his campaign promise, Obama should pledge to review Nafta and its clones, fix them where they are not working and create a new template for future agreements. With the Trade Act's initial set of over 100 co-sponsors, the president can add to the momentum fuelled by Congress on trade since he took office.", "tags": ["International trade", "Barack Obama", "Obama administration", "Mexico", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Global economy", "US politics", "Global development", "Politics", "Americas"], "title": "Fix America's trade regime | Kevin Gallagher"},{"date": "2009-08-05T18:38:11Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Deaths from swine flu in Argentina have more than doubled to 337 in the past month, a rate which could see it soon overtake the United States as the worst affected country.Figures released today showed a dramatic surge in deaths from the 137 reported on 14 July, according to the health ministry, though authorities believe the epidemic has peaked and will ebb with the passing of the southern hemisphere's winter.Another 400 deaths are being studied as suspected cases of A(H1N1) swine-type flu.\"We have to say that given the epidemiological tendency it is very probable that the majority of those 400 deaths are from H1N1,\" said the deputy health minister, Maximo Diosque.Swine flu had almost completely replaced normal seasonal flu, he added. Of 762,711 cases more than 700,000 - 93% - were swine flu.Argentina now accounts for about a quarter of the world's reported death toll. If most of the suspected cases are confirmed as A(H1N1) the South American nation will overtake the US, which hcurrently has 353 confirmed deaths.Argentina's neighbours have reported much lower fatalities: Chile 96; Brasil 92; Uruguay 25; and Paraguay 22. Mexico, which first reported the outbreak, has registered 146 deaths.Today's announcement was another setback for Argentina's faltering econonomy. Tourism revenues have reportedly halved, with restaurants, theatres, tango halls and Patagonian ski resorts unusually quiet. Buenos Aires alone has lost \u00a3600m, according to its small business association.Despite the death toll, authorities expressed optimism the worst was over. The epidemic spread so widely that by now there are now thought to be fewer vulnerable people left to infect. The numbers reporting flu symptoms have steadily dropped and beds have again become available in clinics and hospitals.Restrictions introduced last month have been lifted. Schools, universities, cinemas, theatres and gymnasiums have re-opened and fewer people are wearing surgical masks.The Catholic church had urged worshippers to sit far apart and to avoid handshakes during mass. Doctors advised people to not greet each other with a kiss and to not share mate, a herbal drink traditionally drunk from a straw and passed between friends.It was not immediately clear if the updated death toll would prompt renewed restrictions. The good news from Argentina is that its strain has not mutated and turned especially deadly. Genetic sequencing shows its swine flu remains virtually identical to the strain seen in Mexico and the US, boosting chances that a single vaccine can work everywhere.Medical experts have been relieved to see no signs of resistance to antiviral drugs even though the government distributed 2m courses of Tamiflu free to public hospitals. That suggests the drug will remain effective in northern hemisphere countries bracing for winter.The British Foreign Office's travel advice, updated last month, does not urge Britons to stay away but warns that there is a risk of infection and financial cost. \"Medical facilities are good, but can be expensive.\"Brazil's government has advised against travel to Argentina and Chile.", "tags": ["Argentina", "Swine flu", "World news", "Health", "Society", "Flu", "Health & wellbeing", "Epidemics"], "title": "Argentina swine flu deaths double to 337"},{"date": "2009-07-29T19:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A new political trend is taking shape in Latin America. For the past six years or so, international political talk about the region has been all about voters' swirl to the left. The new and under-reported story is the re-emergence of the right.Chile, Uruguay and Brazil are the three countries in the region that best epitomise the mellow, well-behaved left that the international right is willing to praise from time to time \u2013 as opposed to Ecuador, Nicaragua, Venezuela and Bolivia. Their governments are seen as financially responsible, have a good number of socially-friendly policies and the three presidents \u2013 Michelle Bachelet, Tabar\u00e9 V\u00e1zquez and Lula \u2013 are both respected abroad and very popular at home.The three countries are also in the midst of presidential election campaigns. Uruguayans will be going to the polls in October and Chileans in December, and while the Brazilian election is set for October 2010, the campaign is already in its initial stages. One could rightfully suppose that the left is cruising to victory. Strikingly though, the frontrunners are all centre-to-right.Optimists believe the tide may still change in favour of the progressive candidates. According to surveys, the Socialist candidate in Uruguay, Jos\u00e9 \"Pepe\" Mujica, leads the race by four points over the main conservative candidate, the former president (1990-1995) Luis Alberto Lacalle. But he would probably lose in the runoff when the two conservative parties (Nacional and Colorado) are more than likely to join forces against the left as they did in 1999.In Chile, surveys have Eduardo Frei, the former president (1994-2000) and candidate for the centre-left, lagging by less then 10 points behind Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, the billionaire businessman running on the right (President Bachelet, who enjoys popularity rates of over 80% is still to campaign openly for Frei).In Brazil, the gap is wider: Lula's candidate, Dilma Rousseff, lags the top opposition candidate, Jos\u00e9 Serra, by well over 20 points. Progressive optimism is undermined if other regional elections this year are considered benchmarks. The only president elected in Latin America this year was a conservative businessman, Ricardo Martinelli, in Panama, and in congressional elections in both Mexico and Argentina voters tilted to the right.In Mexico, the main leftist alternative, the PRD, ended in a far-off third place after winning second place in a highly contended presidential election in 2006. In Argentina, the centre-to-left faction of the Peronist party led by President Cristina Fern\u00e1ndez de Kirchner and her husband and predecessor, N\u00e9stor Kirchner, was handed a lofty nationwide defeat by more right-leaning alternatives that included a rebel Peronist wing. While the Kirchners are not nearly as popular as other regional leaders, their defeat is worth taking into account within the bigger regional picture.Critics say the Kirchners are not truly leftists, simply disguised as such. The same can be heard in different degrees about Tabar\u00e9 V\u00e1zquez in Uruguay, and even by critics from the left of Bachelet and Lula, unhappy with the pair's good relationships with the markets. However, if political stances are analysed through the context of regional politics in the past 20 to 30 years and of the alliances sought on the international stage by current leaders there is no question they all stand firmly on the left.This leads to an obvious question: Why are popular, and even successful, progressive leaders seeing their parties trail the opposition right, especially given the legacy of the conservative governments of the 90s?Immanuel Wallerstein recently attempted an explanation. The Latin American left, he said, came to power \"because of US distraction and good economic times. Now it faces continued distraction but bad economic times. And it is getting blamed because it's in power.\" The explanation is likely to find many adherents, but may be a tad simplistic if one considers forecasts by the likes of Ricardo Marino, head of the Latin American banking federation, who said this month that the region will be the first in the world to pull out of the global recession.A second explanation may lie in the difficulty popular regional leaders have finding younger and charismatic heirs. In Chile, the centre-to-left governing Concertaci\u00f3n front's best option ended up being a 67-year-old former president. In Uruguay, the Frente Amplio front turned to Mujica, who is 74. In Brazil, when Lula in late 2008 picked Rousseff as his candidate, he chose a minister in her 60s whose recognition rates among voters was in the single digits.The left came to power in most of Latin America because of the awful legacy of the conservative policies from previous decades. It was not easy: Lula ran unsuccessfully for the presidency three times before winning, and V\u00e1zquez failed twice to reach the presidency. That their political legacy, and that of others in other countries, is at risk speaks loads to the difficulties of building progressive leadership in Latin America.", "tags": ["Mexico", "Brazil", "Chile", "Argentina", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Latin America's swing to the right | Rodrigo Orihuela"},{"date": "2009-12-13T13:16:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the heart of Santiago's shopping district, a giggling group of professional young women are comparing plastic dildos. Their laughter continues as they browse the sex toys and lubricant gels in the Solo Adultos sex shop. After lengthy discussion, they settle on some fluffy handcuffs and a pair of Penthouse bunny ears.\"We get lots of hen parties in here\", says Tatiana Martinez, the shop assistant, pointing to the female office workers as they head off towards a nearby nightclub. \"But plenty of women come with their husbands, too,\" she adds. \"Women are becoming a lot more open about sex these days. And a lot more demanding.\"Sex shops are a comparatively new arrival to the Chilean high street. Until 2001, pornographic films were banned. Only five years ago, so was divorce. Today, Latin America's most straight-laced country is beginning to relax a little. As it does so, the role of women and gender stereotyping are slowly beginning to change.The cultural shift is most noticeable among Chile's younger generations. Outside Cherry Bar in the coastal town of Valparaiso, a queue of teenagers straggles around the block. The girls are dressed in mini-skirts and crop tops, despite the cold sea breeze. Once inside, there's a decision to be made: hetero, bi or gay. Cherry boasts a floor for each. Many teens visit all three.\"There's more sexual experimentation among young girls these days. The new generation are much more liberal and liberated,\" says Erika Montecinos, editor of the lesbian magazine Breaking the Silence. Official statistics back her up. Five percent of girls today under 18 years old have had more than one sexual partner, more than double the number from a decade ago. The span between dating and sexual activity (seven and a half months) has also shortened by 13.9% every year over the last ten years.\"Girls no longer want to wait until marriage to start having sex. There are lots of reasons why. They face less parental control for one thing. And then there's the influence of television and the media\", explains Ximena Luengo, a sexual health expert at the University of Chile.It's not just the younger generation that are enjoying a belated sexual revolution. SYO, Chile's first and only swingers bar, counts middle-aged couples among the mainstay of its clientele. Most are married with children and conventional jobs.\"As women, Chilean society never prepares you to be honest about your sexual preferences. Now couples are adventuring together,\" observes Sandra, SYO's 37-year-old owner.Nor is it just in the bedroom where gender relations are undergoing a metamorphosis. Women are making their presence felt in the workplace thanks to an increase in flexible working practices and a battery of new anti-discrimination laws.\"The traditional idea of a man going out to work and the woman staying at home is changing. Women need to work and they want to work,\" explains Sonia Monta\u00f1o, a specialist in gender development at the UN-backed Economic Commission for Latin America.High levels of female education help. An employed woman in Chile is likely to have 11 and a half years of schooling. In Brazil, the average is nine. In the corporate world, Chilean women typically study one more year than their male counterparts. Women are increasingly confident that personal merit rather than private wealth or good connections will get them ahead, according to sociologist Teresa Vald\u00e9s. \"This development has to do with the empowerment of women today, with the belief that 'I will be the best,\" she adds.Chilean woman might not be burning their bras but they are certainly loosening the shoulder straps. So why the sudden change?Women's rights groups are almost unanimous in their response: the Bachelet factor. Chile's first-ever female president, 57-year-old Michelle Bachelet, is credited with pushing gender issues up the political agenda.On assuming power in March 2006, she appointed female ministers to half her cabinet. She also gave the national ministry for women a long-overdue budgetary boost. Her motives were not impersonal. A separated mother, she juggled bringing up three children while carving out a successful career in Chile's male-dominated medical profession.\"Given the quantity of women in power under this administration, we can no longer say we are excluded\", Laura Albornoz, Chile's women's minister.She is quick to reel off the achievements of Bachelet's administration; a more than fivefold increase in the number of free cr\u00e8ches, a best practice code on flexible working; occupational training for 36,000 female heads of household.\"Many of the seeds we are sowing now, we won't be able to harvest immediately\", Albornoz admits, \"But there's no stepping back now.\"\"No hay marcha atr\u00e1s\" (\"No step backwards\"). It's a phrase borrowed from her boss. Bachelet has another favourite saying. Young girls used to dream of growing up to be nurses or teachers, it runs. Now they aspire to becoming president.With elections today and Bachelet constitutionally unable to stand for another four-year term, gender rights advocates are turning their minds to her legacy. \"The very fact of her presidency signifies an important cultural shift \u2026 It's helped foster a change in what women think they can do,\" says Maria Elena Valenzuela, a specialist on gender issues at the International Labout Organisation.The argument is laced with a dose of realism and a dozen provisos. Women's organisations are forced to admit that Chile in many ways remains a profoundly unequal, chauvinist society. Attitudes towards Bachelet herself prove that. In the street, everyday Chileans refer to her as La Gordis (\"the Fat Woman\"). \"Baywatch Babe\" ran one sarcastic headline in reference to recent photos of her in a swimsuit.Assessments of her political performance reflect similar gender biases. Consensus-building, listening, warm, inclusive \u2013 these are adjectives associated with Bachelet's political style. Rather than signs of progressive leadership, Chileans interpret them as evidence of dillydallying. \"She makes commissions,\" her opponents like to say, \"not decisions.\"The criticism is evidence of Chile's \"political immaturity\", according to Soledad Teixido, chief executive of the non-profit organisation ProHumana. She blames the country's history of autocratic, military rulers. Chile's last military government ended as recently as 1990, when Augusto Pinochet handed over power after 17 years.\"Our country isn't ready for a female style of leadership. She's not cuddly as the maternal stereotype demands, nor does she rule with a heavy hand. Ridiculous though it is, that looks bad on all of us,\" Teixido laments.Bachelet's strong performance during the global recession has done much to turn around the early criticism of her governing style. She leaves office with record approval ratings of around 80%. Two years ago, it dropped to below 40%.Full gender parity in Chile remains a long way off. Less than two in five women (38.5%) work, the lowest percentage in the continent. Women earn on average four-fifths (79%) that of male employees. Boardrooms and unions remain Clubes de Toby, the Chilean term for men-only institutions. Political representation is little better. Women number less than one in eight (13%) parliamentarians. In neighbouring Argentina, the figure is three times higher. Even Bachelet's 50-50 cabinet is no longer a paradigm of gender balance after a number of high-profile reshuffles.Recent opportunities to strike a fresh blow for the female cause have also come and gone. Moves to make the morning-after pill freely available, for example, were quashed by the (all-male) constitutional court. Efforts to establish a mandatory quota of women candidates in political parties have also failed to materialise.Women's groups valiantly press on. They take their victories where they can: contraceptive use being officially sanctioned in the fight against HIV/AIDS (until recently, government advice led on monogamy and pre-marital chastity); a high-profile campaign against domestic violence; a basic pension for housewives.At their most optimistic, gender experts see Chile moving towards a softer \"neo-machista\" society. Now men cook, albeit only at weekends or for dinner parties. No longer is it de moda for husbands to boast about hitting their wives or having affairs. In politically correct Chile, even the organisers of the local Miss World contest claim to be \"feminists\".Yet a change of language shouldn't be mistaken for a change of opinion. \"Culturally, we're not seen as subjects, but as objects,\" points out Sonia Montecino, the first female director of Chile's National Archive.Even as objects, women don't have it easy. In Chile, the religious and secular are fighting it out for primacy. On the one hand, the Catholic church espouses conservative virtues of piety, motherhood and dutiful sacrifice. On the other, the daily tabloids present women as silicon-enhanced, hyper-sexualised bonbones (\"bimbos\").The contradiction is lodged deep within the male psyche. Office workers think nothing of popping out for their morning latte to one of Santiago's myriad caf\u00e9 con piernas, a mix between Starbucks and Stringfellows. Fathers will gift breast implants to their teenage daughters, but expect them to remain virgins until marriage.But does the fault lie entirely with Chile's chauvinist men? \"The M of machismo begins with the M of mother,\" runs a popular Chilean saying. Feminists admit women can also be responsible for perpetuating negative stereotypes. \"Women like it that men are machista. It gives them security. People don't like things changing too quickly,\" says Maria de los Angeles, director of Chile's Elite model agency.Women are also put off building a career for fear of becoming \"masculinised\". If there's a choice to be made between staying late in the office or eating dinner with their children, they will invariably opt for the latter, explains Maria Marcet, deputy manager for social responsibility at Spanish-owned bank Santander. \"To an extent, they [make] their own glass ceiling.\"Talk of women's rights remains predominantly an urban, middle-class preoccupation. Chile's rural and indigenous communities treat feminist ideas with suspicion. Fifty-nine-year old Juana Millavil, a Mapuche Indian from a reservation near Temuco in southern Chile, has never gone on holiday. Without complaint, she rises at dawn to a full day of household chores.\"It's not good to be too feminist. Culturally, the man is the head of the family and deserves respect,\" she says, stirring a pot of stew for her husband's lunch.She has an opinion on Santiago's hen parties, too: \"Many women are taking advantage of their recent liberation. They go out and cheat on their husbands.\" At Solo Adultos, Tatiana dismisses such talk as belonging to the \"old Chile\". All the same, she has yet to tell her two children where she works. She prefers for their schoolmates not to know. Or their mothers.Oliver Balch is author of Viva South America!, published by Faber & Faber. ", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Gender", "Feminism", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Michelle Bachelet: the cultural legacy of Chile's first female president"},{"date": "2009-12-13T13:16:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the heart of Santiago's shopping district, a giggling group of professional young women are comparing plastic dildos. Their laughter continues as they browse the sex toys and lubricant gels in the Solo Adultos sex shop. After lengthy discussion, they settle on some fluffy handcuffs and a pair of Penthouse bunny ears.\"We get lots of hen parties in here\", says Tatiana Martinez, the shop assistant, pointing to the female office workers as they head off towards a nearby nightclub. \"But plenty of women come with their husbands, too,\" she adds. \"Women are becoming a lot more open about sex these days. And a lot more demanding.\"Sex shops are a comparatively new arrival to the Chilean high street. Until 2001, pornographic films were banned. Only five years ago, so was divorce. Today, Latin America's most straight-laced country is beginning to relax a little. As it does so, the role of women and gender stereotyping are slowly beginning to change.The cultural shift is most noticeable among Chile's younger generations. Outside Cherry Bar in the coastal town of Valparaiso, a queue of teenagers straggles around the block. The girls are dressed in mini-skirts and crop tops, despite the cold sea breeze. Once inside, there's a decision to be made: hetero, bi or gay. Cherry boasts a floor for each. Many teens visit all three.\"There's more sexual experimentation among young girls these days. The new generation are much more liberal and liberated,\" says Erika Montecinos, editor of the lesbian magazine Breaking the Silence. Official statistics back her up. Five percent of girls today under 18 years old have had more than one sexual partner, more than double the number from a decade ago. The span between dating and sexual activity (seven and a half months) has also shortened by 13.9% every year over the last ten years.\"Girls no longer want to wait until marriage to start having sex. There are lots of reasons why. They face less parental control for one thing. And then there's the influence of television and the media\", explains Ximena Luengo, a sexual health expert at the University of Chile.It's not just the younger generation that are enjoying a belated sexual revolution. SYO, Chile's first and only swingers bar, counts middle-aged couples among the mainstay of its clientele. Most are married with children and conventional jobs.\"As women, Chilean society never prepares you to be honest about your sexual preferences. Now couples are adventuring together,\" observes Sandra, SYO's 37-year-old owner.Nor is it just in the bedroom where gender relations are undergoing a metamorphosis. Women are making their presence felt in the workplace thanks to an increase in flexible working practices and a battery of new anti-discrimination laws.\"The traditional idea of a man going out to work and the woman staying at home is changing. Women need to work and they want to work,\" explains Sonia Monta\u00f1o, a specialist in gender development at the UN-backed Economic Commission for Latin America.High levels of female education help. An employed woman in Chile is likely to have 11 and a half years of schooling. In Brazil, the average is nine. In the corporate world, Chilean women typically study one more year than their male counterparts. Women are increasingly confident that personal merit rather than private wealth or good connections will get them ahead, according to sociologist Teresa Vald\u00e9s. \"This development has to do with the empowerment of women today, with the belief that 'I will be the best,\" she adds.Chilean woman might not be burning their bras but they are certainly loosening the shoulder straps. So why the sudden change?Women's rights groups are almost unanimous in their response: the Bachelet factor. Chile's first-ever female president, 57-year-old Michelle Bachelet, is credited with pushing gender issues up the political agenda.On assuming power in March 2006, she appointed female ministers to half her cabinet. She also gave the national ministry for women a long-overdue budgetary boost. Her motives were not impersonal. A separated mother, she juggled bringing up three children while carving out a successful career in Chile's male-dominated medical profession.\"Given the quantity of women in power under this administration, we can no longer say we are excluded\", Laura Albornoz, Chile's women's minister.She is quick to reel off the achievements of Bachelet's administration; a more than fivefold increase in the number of free cr\u00e8ches, a best practice code on flexible working; occupational training for 36,000 female heads of household.\"Many of the seeds we are sowing now, we won't be able to harvest immediately\", Albornoz admits, \"But there's no stepping back now.\"\"No hay marcha atr\u00e1s\" (\"No step backwards\"). It's a phrase borrowed from her boss. Bachelet has another favourite saying. Young girls used to dream of growing up to be nurses or teachers, it runs. Now they aspire to becoming president.With elections today and Bachelet constitutionally unable to stand for another four-year term, gender rights advocates are turning their minds to her legacy. \"The very fact of her presidency signifies an important cultural shift \u2026 It's helped foster a change in what women think they can do,\" says Maria Elena Valenzuela, a specialist on gender issues at the International Labout Organisation.The argument is laced with a dose of realism and a dozen provisos. Women's organisations are forced to admit that Chile in many ways remains a profoundly unequal, chauvinist society. Attitudes towards Bachelet herself prove that. In the street, everyday Chileans refer to her as La Gordis (\"the Fat Woman\"). \"Baywatch Babe\" ran one sarcastic headline in reference to recent photos of her in a swimsuit.Assessments of her political performance reflect similar gender biases. Consensus-building, listening, warm, inclusive \u2013 these are adjectives associated with Bachelet's political style. Rather than signs of progressive leadership, Chileans interpret them as evidence of dillydallying. \"She makes commissions,\" her opponents like to say, \"not decisions.\"The criticism is evidence of Chile's \"political immaturity\", according to Soledad Teixido, chief executive of the non-profit organisation ProHumana. She blames the country's history of autocratic, military rulers. Chile's last military government ended as recently as 1990, when Augusto Pinochet handed over power after 17 years.\"Our country isn't ready for a female style of leadership. She's not cuddly as the maternal stereotype demands, nor does she rule with a heavy hand. Ridiculous though it is, that looks bad on all of us,\" Teixido laments.Bachelet's strong performance during the global recession has done much to turn around the early criticism of her governing style. She leaves office with record approval ratings of around 80%. Two years ago, it dropped to below 40%.Full gender parity in Chile remains a long way off. Less than two in five women (38.5%) work, the lowest percentage in the continent. Women earn on average four-fifths (79%) that of male employees. Boardrooms and unions remain Clubes de Toby, the Chilean term for men-only institutions. Political representation is little better. Women number less than one in eight (13%) parliamentarians. In neighbouring Argentina, the figure is three times higher. Even Bachelet's 50-50 cabinet is no longer a paradigm of gender balance after a number of high-profile reshuffles.Recent opportunities to strike a fresh blow for the female cause have also come and gone. Moves to make the morning-after pill freely available, for example, were quashed by the (all-male) constitutional court. Efforts to establish a mandatory quota of women candidates in political parties have also failed to materialise.Women's groups valiantly press on. They take their victories where they can: contraceptive use being officially sanctioned in the fight against HIV/AIDS (until recently, government advice led on monogamy and pre-marital chastity); a high-profile campaign against domestic violence; a basic pension for housewives.At their most optimistic, gender experts see Chile moving towards a softer \"neo-machista\" society. Now men cook, albeit only at weekends or for dinner parties. No longer is it de moda for husbands to boast about hitting their wives or having affairs. In politically correct Chile, even the organisers of the local Miss World contest claim to be \"feminists\".Yet a change of language shouldn't be mistaken for a change of opinion. \"Culturally, we're not seen as subjects, but as objects,\" points out Sonia Montecino, the first female director of Chile's National Archive.Even as objects, women don't have it easy. In Chile, the religious and secular are fighting it out for primacy. On the one hand, the Catholic church espouses conservative virtues of piety, motherhood and dutiful sacrifice. On the other, the daily tabloids present women as silicon-enhanced, hyper-sexualised bonbones (\"bimbos\").The contradiction is lodged deep within the male psyche. Office workers think nothing of popping out for their morning latte to one of Santiago's myriad caf\u00e9 con piernas, a mix between Starbucks and Stringfellows. Fathers will gift breast implants to their teenage daughters, but expect them to remain virgins until marriage.But does the fault lie entirely with Chile's chauvinist men? \"The M of machismo begins with the M of mother,\" runs a popular Chilean saying. Feminists admit women can also be responsible for perpetuating negative stereotypes. \"Women like it that men are machista. It gives them security. People don't like things changing too quickly,\" says Maria de los Angeles, director of Chile's Elite model agency.Women are also put off building a career for fear of becoming \"masculinised\". If there's a choice to be made between staying late in the office or eating dinner with their children, they will invariably opt for the latter, explains Maria Marcet, deputy manager for social responsibility at Spanish-owned bank Santander. \"To an extent, they [make] their own glass ceiling.\"Talk of women's rights remains predominantly an urban, middle-class preoccupation. Chile's rural and indigenous communities treat feminist ideas with suspicion. Fifty-nine-year old Juana Millavil, a Mapuche Indian from a reservation near Temuco in southern Chile, has never gone on holiday. Without complaint, she rises at dawn to a full day of household chores.\"It's not good to be too feminist. Culturally, the man is the head of the family and deserves respect,\" she says, stirring a pot of stew for her husband's lunch.She has an opinion on Santiago's hen parties, too: \"Many women are taking advantage of their recent liberation. They go out and cheat on their husbands.\" At Solo Adultos, Tatiana dismisses such talk as belonging to the \"old Chile\". All the same, she has yet to tell her two children where she works. She prefers for their schoolmates not to know. Or their mothers.Oliver Balch is author of Viva South America!, published by Faber & Faber. ", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Gender", "Feminism", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Michelle Bachelet: the cultural legacy of Chile's first female president"},{"date": "2009-11-16T17:50:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Majestic Wine said today that drinkers were switching to more affordable \"New World\" wines and Prosecco to beat the credit crunch.Britain's largest wine warehouse chain said consumers were looking for \"value for money\" with bottles from New Zealand, South Africa and Chile selling better than those from the eurozone. Sales of bottles of wine in the \u00a320 plus price bracket - Majestic's average selling price is \u00a36.41 - were up 14.4% on the year as Britons sought to create a restaurant-style dining experience at home, said chief executive Steve Lewis.His comments came as Majestic reported a 9% rise in first half profits to \u00a36.1m. Like-for-like sales were up 5.4% in the 26 weeks to 28 September. He said Majestic expected to pick up market share from First Quench Retailing, the owner of Threshers and Wine Rack which fell into administration earlier this month, but does not want to buy any of its stores as it was \"not interested\" in high street locations.Off-licences have come under severe pressure in recent years due to the increasing dominance of supermarkets which account for 70% of the off-trade. First Quench had a 9% market share whereas Majestic has around 3%. Its administrators have already announced plans to close a third of the group's 1,200 stores. \"The removal of capacity from the high street has to have a beneficial effect for us,\" said Lewis. The retailer has 153 warehouse-style stores and sees scope to add another 100 sites. Shares in Majestic, which have risen 78% over the last year, closed up 3.7% at 254p.After a year-long trial, Majestic changed its trading strategy this autumn, lowering the minimum customer purchase requirement from 12 to six bottles in a bid to make the chain more accessible to current and new customers. When the threshold was set at a dozen Lewis said many customers had only shopped once a year, adding: \"Initial indications following the full rollout are encouraging.\"Majestic hopes higher sales to private individuals, which were up 8.9% in period, will offset weak demand from its business customers. Sales at its corporate business, which accounts for around a fifth of turnover, were down nearly 7%. \"Every finance director in every company across the land has put a red line through corporate entertaining and gifting,\" said Lewis. \"Whereas private customers, if you've got a compelling proposition, are still prepared to spend their own money.\"Alcohol has become a battleground of the big supermarkets chains over the Christmas sales period, with wines and spirits often used as loss leaders to lure shoppers into store.", "tags": ["Majestic Wine", "Food & drink industry", "Business"], "title": "New World and costlier wines do brisk trade for Majestic"},{"date": "2009-12-13T13:16:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the heart of Santiago's shopping district, a giggling group of professional young women are comparing plastic dildos. Their laughter continues as they browse the sex toys and lubricant gels in the Solo Adultos sex shop. After lengthy discussion, they settle on some fluffy handcuffs and a pair of Penthouse bunny ears.\"We get lots of hen parties in here\", says Tatiana Martinez, the shop assistant, pointing to the female office workers as they head off towards a nearby nightclub. \"But plenty of women come with their husbands, too,\" she adds. \"Women are becoming a lot more open about sex these days. And a lot more demanding.\"Sex shops are a comparatively new arrival to the Chilean high street. Until 2001, pornographic films were banned. Only five years ago, so was divorce. Today, Latin America's most straight-laced country is beginning to relax a little. As it does so, the role of women and gender stereotyping are slowly beginning to change.The cultural shift is most noticeable among Chile's younger generations. Outside Cherry Bar in the coastal town of Valparaiso, a queue of teenagers straggles around the block. The girls are dressed in mini-skirts and crop tops, despite the cold sea breeze. Once inside, there's a decision to be made: hetero, bi or gay. Cherry boasts a floor for each. Many teens visit all three.\"There's more sexual experimentation among young girls these days. The new generation are much more liberal and liberated,\" says Erika Montecinos, editor of the lesbian magazine Breaking the Silence. Official statistics back her up. Five percent of girls today under 18 years old have had more than one sexual partner, more than double the number from a decade ago. The span between dating and sexual activity (seven and a half months) has also shortened by 13.9% every year over the last ten years.\"Girls no longer want to wait until marriage to start having sex. There are lots of reasons why. They face less parental control for one thing. And then there's the influence of television and the media\", explains Ximena Luengo, a sexual health expert at the University of Chile.It's not just the younger generation that are enjoying a belated sexual revolution. SYO, Chile's first and only swingers bar, counts middle-aged couples among the mainstay of its clientele. Most are married with children and conventional jobs.\"As women, Chilean society never prepares you to be honest about your sexual preferences. Now couples are adventuring together,\" observes Sandra, SYO's 37-year-old owner.Nor is it just in the bedroom where gender relations are undergoing a metamorphosis. Women are making their presence felt in the workplace thanks to an increase in flexible working practices and a battery of new anti-discrimination laws.\"The traditional idea of a man going out to work and the woman staying at home is changing. Women need to work and they want to work,\" explains Sonia Monta\u00f1o, a specialist in gender development at the UN-backed Economic Commission for Latin America.High levels of female education help. An employed woman in Chile is likely to have 11 and a half years of schooling. In Brazil, the average is nine. In the corporate world, Chilean women typically study one more year than their male counterparts. Women are increasingly confident that personal merit rather than private wealth or good connections will get them ahead, according to sociologist Teresa Vald\u00e9s. \"This development has to do with the empowerment of women today, with the belief that 'I will be the best,\" she adds.Chilean woman might not be burning their bras but they are certainly loosening the shoulder straps. So why the sudden change?Women's rights groups are almost unanimous in their response: the Bachelet factor. Chile's first-ever female president, 57-year-old Michelle Bachelet, is credited with pushing gender issues up the political agenda.On assuming power in March 2006, she appointed female ministers to half her cabinet. She also gave the national ministry for women a long-overdue budgetary boost. Her motives were not impersonal. A separated mother, she juggled bringing up three children while carving out a successful career in Chile's male-dominated medical profession.\"Given the quantity of women in power under this administration, we can no longer say we are excluded\", Laura Albornoz, Chile's women's minister.She is quick to reel off the achievements of Bachelet's administration; a more than fivefold increase in the number of free cr\u00e8ches, a best practice code on flexible working; occupational training for 36,000 female heads of household.\"Many of the seeds we are sowing now, we won't be able to harvest immediately\", Albornoz admits, \"But there's no stepping back now.\"\"No hay marcha atr\u00e1s\" (\"No step backwards\"). It's a phrase borrowed from her boss. Bachelet has another favourite saying. Young girls used to dream of growing up to be nurses or teachers, it runs. Now they aspire to becoming president.With elections today and Bachelet constitutionally unable to stand for another four-year term, gender rights advocates are turning their minds to her legacy. \"The very fact of her presidency signifies an important cultural shift \u2026 It's helped foster a change in what women think they can do,\" says Maria Elena Valenzuela, a specialist on gender issues at the International Labout Organisation.The argument is laced with a dose of realism and a dozen provisos. Women's organisations are forced to admit that Chile in many ways remains a profoundly unequal, chauvinist society. Attitudes towards Bachelet herself prove that. In the street, everyday Chileans refer to her as La Gordis (\"the Fat Woman\"). \"Baywatch Babe\" ran one sarcastic headline in reference to recent photos of her in a swimsuit.Assessments of her political performance reflect similar gender biases. Consensus-building, listening, warm, inclusive \u2013 these are adjectives associated with Bachelet's political style. Rather than signs of progressive leadership, Chileans interpret them as evidence of dillydallying. \"She makes commissions,\" her opponents like to say, \"not decisions.\"The criticism is evidence of Chile's \"political immaturity\", according to Soledad Teixido, chief executive of the non-profit organisation ProHumana. She blames the country's history of autocratic, military rulers. Chile's last military government ended as recently as 1990, when Augusto Pinochet handed over power after 17 years.\"Our country isn't ready for a female style of leadership. She's not cuddly as the maternal stereotype demands, nor does she rule with a heavy hand. Ridiculous though it is, that looks bad on all of us,\" Teixido laments.Bachelet's strong performance during the global recession has done much to turn around the early criticism of her governing style. She leaves office with record approval ratings of around 80%. Two years ago, it dropped to below 40%.Full gender parity in Chile remains a long way off. Less than two in five women (38.5%) work, the lowest percentage in the continent. Women earn on average four-fifths (79%) that of male employees. Boardrooms and unions remain Clubes de Toby, the Chilean term for men-only institutions. Political representation is little better. Women number less than one in eight (13%) parliamentarians. In neighbouring Argentina, the figure is three times higher. Even Bachelet's 50-50 cabinet is no longer a paradigm of gender balance after a number of high-profile reshuffles.Recent opportunities to strike a fresh blow for the female cause have also come and gone. Moves to make the morning-after pill freely available, for example, were quashed by the (all-male) constitutional court. Efforts to establish a mandatory quota of women candidates in political parties have also failed to materialise.Women's groups valiantly press on. They take their victories where they can: contraceptive use being officially sanctioned in the fight against HIV/AIDS (until recently, government advice led on monogamy and pre-marital chastity); a high-profile campaign against domestic violence; a basic pension for housewives.At their most optimistic, gender experts see Chile moving towards a softer \"neo-machista\" society. Now men cook, albeit only at weekends or for dinner parties. No longer is it de moda for husbands to boast about hitting their wives or having affairs. In politically correct Chile, even the organisers of the local Miss World contest claim to be \"feminists\".Yet a change of language shouldn't be mistaken for a change of opinion. \"Culturally, we're not seen as subjects, but as objects,\" points out Sonia Montecino, the first female director of Chile's National Archive.Even as objects, women don't have it easy. In Chile, the religious and secular are fighting it out for primacy. On the one hand, the Catholic church espouses conservative virtues of piety, motherhood and dutiful sacrifice. On the other, the daily tabloids present women as silicon-enhanced, hyper-sexualised bonbones (\"bimbos\").The contradiction is lodged deep within the male psyche. Office workers think nothing of popping out for their morning latte to one of Santiago's myriad caf\u00e9 con piernas, a mix between Starbucks and Stringfellows. Fathers will gift breast implants to their teenage daughters, but expect them to remain virgins until marriage.But does the fault lie entirely with Chile's chauvinist men? \"The M of machismo begins with the M of mother,\" runs a popular Chilean saying. Feminists admit women can also be responsible for perpetuating negative stereotypes. \"Women like it that men are machista. It gives them security. People don't like things changing too quickly,\" says Maria de los Angeles, director of Chile's Elite model agency.Women are also put off building a career for fear of becoming \"masculinised\". If there's a choice to be made between staying late in the office or eating dinner with their children, they will invariably opt for the latter, explains Maria Marcet, deputy manager for social responsibility at Spanish-owned bank Santander. \"To an extent, they [make] their own glass ceiling.\"Talk of women's rights remains predominantly an urban, middle-class preoccupation. Chile's rural and indigenous communities treat feminist ideas with suspicion. Fifty-nine-year old Juana Millavil, a Mapuche Indian from a reservation near Temuco in southern Chile, has never gone on holiday. Without complaint, she rises at dawn to a full day of household chores.\"It's not good to be too feminist. Culturally, the man is the head of the family and deserves respect,\" she says, stirring a pot of stew for her husband's lunch.She has an opinion on Santiago's hen parties, too: \"Many women are taking advantage of their recent liberation. They go out and cheat on their husbands.\" At Solo Adultos, Tatiana dismisses such talk as belonging to the \"old Chile\". All the same, she has yet to tell her two children where she works. She prefers for their schoolmates not to know. Or their mothers.Oliver Balch is author of Viva South America!, published by Faber & Faber. ", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Gender", "Feminism", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Michelle Bachelet: the cultural legacy of Chile's first female president"},{"date": "2009-11-16T17:50:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Majestic Wine said today that drinkers were switching to more affordable \"New World\" wines and Prosecco to beat the credit crunch.Britain's largest wine warehouse chain said consumers were looking for \"value for money\" with bottles from New Zealand, South Africa and Chile selling better than those from the eurozone. Sales of bottles of wine in the \u00a320 plus price bracket - Majestic's average selling price is \u00a36.41 - were up 14.4% on the year as Britons sought to create a restaurant-style dining experience at home, said chief executive Steve Lewis.His comments came as Majestic reported a 9% rise in first half profits to \u00a36.1m. Like-for-like sales were up 5.4% in the 26 weeks to 28 September. He said Majestic expected to pick up market share from First Quench Retailing, the owner of Threshers and Wine Rack which fell into administration earlier this month, but does not want to buy any of its stores as it was \"not interested\" in high street locations.Off-licences have come under severe pressure in recent years due to the increasing dominance of supermarkets which account for 70% of the off-trade. First Quench had a 9% market share whereas Majestic has around 3%. Its administrators have already announced plans to close a third of the group's 1,200 stores. \"The removal of capacity from the high street has to have a beneficial effect for us,\" said Lewis. The retailer has 153 warehouse-style stores and sees scope to add another 100 sites. Shares in Majestic, which have risen 78% over the last year, closed up 3.7% at 254p.After a year-long trial, Majestic changed its trading strategy this autumn, lowering the minimum customer purchase requirement from 12 to six bottles in a bid to make the chain more accessible to current and new customers. When the threshold was set at a dozen Lewis said many customers had only shopped once a year, adding: \"Initial indications following the full rollout are encouraging.\"Majestic hopes higher sales to private individuals, which were up 8.9% in period, will offset weak demand from its business customers. Sales at its corporate business, which accounts for around a fifth of turnover, were down nearly 7%. \"Every finance director in every company across the land has put a red line through corporate entertaining and gifting,\" said Lewis. \"Whereas private customers, if you've got a compelling proposition, are still prepared to spend their own money.\"Alcohol has become a battleground of the big supermarkets chains over the Christmas sales period, with wines and spirits often used as loss leaders to lure shoppers into store.", "tags": ["Majestic Wine", "Food & drink industry", "Business"], "title": "New World and costlier wines do brisk trade for Majestic"},{"date": "2009-12-14T01:10:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A conservative businessman won most votes in Chile's presidential election yesterday, making him favourite to win a run-off and end nearly two decades of leftwing rule.Preliminary results gave the billionaire Sebastian Pinera 44% of the vote, far ahead of his nearest rival but not enough to clinch a first-round victory. Pinera, who owns stakes in an airline and a media firm, promised to rejuvenate the economy but not radically shift Chile to the right. \"Better times are coming to Chile,\" he said.Pinera will square off on 17 January against Eduardo Frei, a former president who ran on the ticket of the ruling coalition, Concertaci\u00f3n, which has been in power since the end of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship in 1990. Frei, who came second with 31%, will try to rally support from voters who backed two other leftwing candidates: Marco Enriquez-Ominami took 19% and Jorge Arrate took 6%.The country of 17 million people is a stable and prosperous Latin America success story, but Pinera tapped a perception that the ruling coalition was jaded. \"Chile needs a true renaissance which frees us from this state of lethargy,\" he wrote in a Sunday newspaper column.If Pinera prevails next month it would be the right's first poll victory in half a century, and distinguish Chile from a continent dominated by leftist governments.Analysts said he was the right's most moderate candidate and would keep Chile on a centrist course. The two-chamber congress is expected to remain divided.After a four-year term which saw copper and wine exports help to weather recession, President Michelle Bachelet has a 77% approval rating, but is constitutionally barred from seeking re-election.Frei, a civil engineer whose 1994-2000 administration was buffeted by economic problems, has put Bachelet's name and face on his campaign posters, but struggled to transfer her popularity. At 67, he represents the old guard in a country which seems to want change.The race was shaken up by Enr\u00edquez-Ominami, 36, a former film director and congressman who broke from the ruling coalition to run as an independent. Dubbed \"the rebel\", he promised to increase taxes on the rich and broached taboo subjects such as marijuana consumption, gay marriage and abortion.\"The big question is: What happens to Marco Enriquez-Ominami's votes?\" Fabian Pressacco, a political analyst who expects a tight race, told Reuters. \"How many of those votes will go to Frei? I think most of them will.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "Billionaire to face leftwing former leader in Chile's presidential runoff"},{"date": "2009-12-13T13:16:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the heart of Santiago's shopping district, a giggling group of professional young women are comparing plastic dildos. Their laughter continues as they browse the sex toys and lubricant gels in the Solo Adultos sex shop. After lengthy discussion, they settle on some fluffy handcuffs and a pair of Penthouse bunny ears.\"We get lots of hen parties in here\", says Tatiana Martinez, the shop assistant, pointing to the female office workers as they head off towards a nearby nightclub. \"But plenty of women come with their husbands, too,\" she adds. \"Women are becoming a lot more open about sex these days. And a lot more demanding.\"Sex shops are a comparatively new arrival to the Chilean high street. Until 2001, pornographic films were banned. Only five years ago, so was divorce. Today, Latin America's most straight-laced country is beginning to relax a little. As it does so, the role of women and gender stereotyping are slowly beginning to change.The cultural shift is most noticeable among Chile's younger generations. Outside Cherry Bar in the coastal town of Valparaiso, a queue of teenagers straggles around the block. The girls are dressed in mini-skirts and crop tops, despite the cold sea breeze. Once inside, there's a decision to be made: hetero, bi or gay. Cherry boasts a floor for each. Many teens visit all three.\"There's more sexual experimentation among young girls these days. The new generation are much more liberal and liberated,\" says Erika Montecinos, editor of the lesbian magazine Breaking the Silence. Official statistics back her up. Five percent of girls today under 18 years old have had more than one sexual partner, more than double the number from a decade ago. The span between dating and sexual activity (seven and a half months) has also shortened by 13.9% every year over the last ten years.\"Girls no longer want to wait until marriage to start having sex. There are lots of reasons why. They face less parental control for one thing. And then there's the influence of television and the media\", explains Ximena Luengo, a sexual health expert at the University of Chile.It's not just the younger generation that are enjoying a belated sexual revolution. SYO, Chile's first and only swingers bar, counts middle-aged couples among the mainstay of its clientele. Most are married with children and conventional jobs.\"As women, Chilean society never prepares you to be honest about your sexual preferences. Now couples are adventuring together,\" observes Sandra, SYO's 37-year-old owner.Nor is it just in the bedroom where gender relations are undergoing a metamorphosis. Women are making their presence felt in the workplace thanks to an increase in flexible working practices and a battery of new anti-discrimination laws.\"The traditional idea of a man going out to work and the woman staying at home is changing. Women need to work and they want to work,\" explains Sonia Monta\u00f1o, a specialist in gender development at the UN-backed Economic Commission for Latin America.High levels of female education help. An employed woman in Chile is likely to have 11 and a half years of schooling. In Brazil, the average is nine. In the corporate world, Chilean women typically study one more year than their male counterparts. Women are increasingly confident that personal merit rather than private wealth or good connections will get them ahead, according to sociologist Teresa Vald\u00e9s. \"This development has to do with the empowerment of women today, with the belief that 'I will be the best,\" she adds.Chilean woman might not be burning their bras but they are certainly loosening the shoulder straps. So why the sudden change?Women's rights groups are almost unanimous in their response: the Bachelet factor. Chile's first-ever female president, 57-year-old Michelle Bachelet, is credited with pushing gender issues up the political agenda.On assuming power in March 2006, she appointed female ministers to half her cabinet. She also gave the national ministry for women a long-overdue budgetary boost. Her motives were not impersonal. A separated mother, she juggled bringing up three children while carving out a successful career in Chile's male-dominated medical profession.\"Given the quantity of women in power under this administration, we can no longer say we are excluded\", Laura Albornoz, Chile's women's minister.She is quick to reel off the achievements of Bachelet's administration; a more than fivefold increase in the number of free cr\u00e8ches, a best practice code on flexible working; occupational training for 36,000 female heads of household.\"Many of the seeds we are sowing now, we won't be able to harvest immediately\", Albornoz admits, \"But there's no stepping back now.\"\"No hay marcha atr\u00e1s\" (\"No step backwards\"). It's a phrase borrowed from her boss. Bachelet has another favourite saying. Young girls used to dream of growing up to be nurses or teachers, it runs. Now they aspire to becoming president.With elections today and Bachelet constitutionally unable to stand for another four-year term, gender rights advocates are turning their minds to her legacy. \"The very fact of her presidency signifies an important cultural shift \u2026 It's helped foster a change in what women think they can do,\" says Maria Elena Valenzuela, a specialist on gender issues at the International Labout Organisation.The argument is laced with a dose of realism and a dozen provisos. Women's organisations are forced to admit that Chile in many ways remains a profoundly unequal, chauvinist society. Attitudes towards Bachelet herself prove that. In the street, everyday Chileans refer to her as La Gordis (\"the Fat Woman\"). \"Baywatch Babe\" ran one sarcastic headline in reference to recent photos of her in a swimsuit.Assessments of her political performance reflect similar gender biases. Consensus-building, listening, warm, inclusive \u2013 these are adjectives associated with Bachelet's political style. Rather than signs of progressive leadership, Chileans interpret them as evidence of dillydallying. \"She makes commissions,\" her opponents like to say, \"not decisions.\"The criticism is evidence of Chile's \"political immaturity\", according to Soledad Teixido, chief executive of the non-profit organisation ProHumana. She blames the country's history of autocratic, military rulers. Chile's last military government ended as recently as 1990, when Augusto Pinochet handed over power after 17 years.\"Our country isn't ready for a female style of leadership. She's not cuddly as the maternal stereotype demands, nor does she rule with a heavy hand. Ridiculous though it is, that looks bad on all of us,\" Teixido laments.Bachelet's strong performance during the global recession has done much to turn around the early criticism of her governing style. She leaves office with record approval ratings of around 80%. Two years ago, it dropped to below 40%.Full gender parity in Chile remains a long way off. Less than two in five women (38.5%) work, the lowest percentage in the continent. Women earn on average four-fifths (79%) that of male employees. Boardrooms and unions remain Clubes de Toby, the Chilean term for men-only institutions. Political representation is little better. Women number less than one in eight (13%) parliamentarians. In neighbouring Argentina, the figure is three times higher. Even Bachelet's 50-50 cabinet is no longer a paradigm of gender balance after a number of high-profile reshuffles.Recent opportunities to strike a fresh blow for the female cause have also come and gone. Moves to make the morning-after pill freely available, for example, were quashed by the (all-male) constitutional court. Efforts to establish a mandatory quota of women candidates in political parties have also failed to materialise.Women's groups valiantly press on. They take their victories where they can: contraceptive use being officially sanctioned in the fight against HIV/AIDS (until recently, government advice led on monogamy and pre-marital chastity); a high-profile campaign against domestic violence; a basic pension for housewives.At their most optimistic, gender experts see Chile moving towards a softer \"neo-machista\" society. Now men cook, albeit only at weekends or for dinner parties. No longer is it de moda for husbands to boast about hitting their wives or having affairs. In politically correct Chile, even the organisers of the local Miss World contest claim to be \"feminists\".Yet a change of language shouldn't be mistaken for a change of opinion. \"Culturally, we're not seen as subjects, but as objects,\" points out Sonia Montecino, the first female director of Chile's National Archive.Even as objects, women don't have it easy. In Chile, the religious and secular are fighting it out for primacy. On the one hand, the Catholic church espouses conservative virtues of piety, motherhood and dutiful sacrifice. On the other, the daily tabloids present women as silicon-enhanced, hyper-sexualised bonbones (\"bimbos\").The contradiction is lodged deep within the male psyche. Office workers think nothing of popping out for their morning latte to one of Santiago's myriad caf\u00e9 con piernas, a mix between Starbucks and Stringfellows. Fathers will gift breast implants to their teenage daughters, but expect them to remain virgins until marriage.But does the fault lie entirely with Chile's chauvinist men? \"The M of machismo begins with the M of mother,\" runs a popular Chilean saying. Feminists admit women can also be responsible for perpetuating negative stereotypes. \"Women like it that men are machista. It gives them security. People don't like things changing too quickly,\" says Maria de los Angeles, director of Chile's Elite model agency.Women are also put off building a career for fear of becoming \"masculinised\". If there's a choice to be made between staying late in the office or eating dinner with their children, they will invariably opt for the latter, explains Maria Marcet, deputy manager for social responsibility at Spanish-owned bank Santander. \"To an extent, they [make] their own glass ceiling.\"Talk of women's rights remains predominantly an urban, middle-class preoccupation. Chile's rural and indigenous communities treat feminist ideas with suspicion. Fifty-nine-year old Juana Millavil, a Mapuche Indian from a reservation near Temuco in southern Chile, has never gone on holiday. Without complaint, she rises at dawn to a full day of household chores.\"It's not good to be too feminist. Culturally, the man is the head of the family and deserves respect,\" she says, stirring a pot of stew for her husband's lunch.She has an opinion on Santiago's hen parties, too: \"Many women are taking advantage of their recent liberation. They go out and cheat on their husbands.\" At Solo Adultos, Tatiana dismisses such talk as belonging to the \"old Chile\". All the same, she has yet to tell her two children where she works. She prefers for their schoolmates not to know. Or their mothers.Oliver Balch is author of Viva South America!, published by Faber & Faber. ", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Gender", "Feminism", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Michelle Bachelet: the cultural legacy of Chile's first female president"},{"date": "2009-11-16T17:50:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Majestic Wine said today that drinkers were switching to more affordable \"New World\" wines and Prosecco to beat the credit crunch.Britain's largest wine warehouse chain said consumers were looking for \"value for money\" with bottles from New Zealand, South Africa and Chile selling better than those from the eurozone. Sales of bottles of wine in the \u00a320 plus price bracket - Majestic's average selling price is \u00a36.41 - were up 14.4% on the year as Britons sought to create a restaurant-style dining experience at home, said chief executive Steve Lewis.His comments came as Majestic reported a 9% rise in first half profits to \u00a36.1m. Like-for-like sales were up 5.4% in the 26 weeks to 28 September. He said Majestic expected to pick up market share from First Quench Retailing, the owner of Threshers and Wine Rack which fell into administration earlier this month, but does not want to buy any of its stores as it was \"not interested\" in high street locations.Off-licences have come under severe pressure in recent years due to the increasing dominance of supermarkets which account for 70% of the off-trade. First Quench had a 9% market share whereas Majestic has around 3%. Its administrators have already announced plans to close a third of the group's 1,200 stores. \"The removal of capacity from the high street has to have a beneficial effect for us,\" said Lewis. The retailer has 153 warehouse-style stores and sees scope to add another 100 sites. Shares in Majestic, which have risen 78% over the last year, closed up 3.7% at 254p.After a year-long trial, Majestic changed its trading strategy this autumn, lowering the minimum customer purchase requirement from 12 to six bottles in a bid to make the chain more accessible to current and new customers. When the threshold was set at a dozen Lewis said many customers had only shopped once a year, adding: \"Initial indications following the full rollout are encouraging.\"Majestic hopes higher sales to private individuals, which were up 8.9% in period, will offset weak demand from its business customers. Sales at its corporate business, which accounts for around a fifth of turnover, were down nearly 7%. \"Every finance director in every company across the land has put a red line through corporate entertaining and gifting,\" said Lewis. \"Whereas private customers, if you've got a compelling proposition, are still prepared to spend their own money.\"Alcohol has become a battleground of the big supermarkets chains over the Christmas sales period, with wines and spirits often used as loss leaders to lure shoppers into store.", "tags": ["Majestic Wine", "Food & drink industry", "Business"], "title": "New World and costlier wines do brisk trade for Majestic"},{"date": "2009-12-14T01:10:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A conservative businessman won most votes in Chile's presidential election yesterday, making him favourite to win a run-off and end nearly two decades of leftwing rule.Preliminary results gave the billionaire Sebastian Pinera 44% of the vote, far ahead of his nearest rival but not enough to clinch a first-round victory. Pinera, who owns stakes in an airline and a media firm, promised to rejuvenate the economy but not radically shift Chile to the right. \"Better times are coming to Chile,\" he said.Pinera will square off on 17 January against Eduardo Frei, a former president who ran on the ticket of the ruling coalition, Concertaci\u00f3n, which has been in power since the end of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship in 1990. Frei, who came second with 31%, will try to rally support from voters who backed two other leftwing candidates: Marco Enriquez-Ominami took 19% and Jorge Arrate took 6%.The country of 17 million people is a stable and prosperous Latin America success story, but Pinera tapped a perception that the ruling coalition was jaded. \"Chile needs a true renaissance which frees us from this state of lethargy,\" he wrote in a Sunday newspaper column.If Pinera prevails next month it would be the right's first poll victory in half a century, and distinguish Chile from a continent dominated by leftist governments.Analysts said he was the right's most moderate candidate and would keep Chile on a centrist course. The two-chamber congress is expected to remain divided.After a four-year term which saw copper and wine exports help to weather recession, President Michelle Bachelet has a 77% approval rating, but is constitutionally barred from seeking re-election.Frei, a civil engineer whose 1994-2000 administration was buffeted by economic problems, has put Bachelet's name and face on his campaign posters, but struggled to transfer her popularity. At 67, he represents the old guard in a country which seems to want change.The race was shaken up by Enr\u00edquez-Ominami, 36, a former film director and congressman who broke from the ruling coalition to run as an independent. Dubbed \"the rebel\", he promised to increase taxes on the rich and broached taboo subjects such as marijuana consumption, gay marriage and abortion.\"The big question is: What happens to Marco Enriquez-Ominami's votes?\" Fabian Pressacco, a political analyst who expects a tight race, told Reuters. \"How many of those votes will go to Frei? I think most of them will.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "Billionaire to face leftwing former leader in Chile's presidential runoff"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:05:15Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean folk singer V\u00edctor Jara, who became a symbol of opposition to the regime of Augusto Pinochet, was finally laid to rest in an emotional funeral in Santiago \u2013 36 years after he was tortured and murdered by the military government.Thousands of Chileans turned out to pay their respects to Jara, who rose from humble rural roots to become a renowned singer and theatre director in the early 1970s, when Chile witnessed a flourishing of radical ideas and the popular arts under Salvador Allende.Yesterday's funeral cortege was led by the singer's British widow, Joan. It was the second time she had buried her husband. In September 1973, a week after Pinochet led a coup against Allende, she took his lifeless body, riddled with machine-gun bullets, to Santiago's general cemetery and arranged a hasty, clandestine burial before fleeing into exile.The opportunity for a dignified funeral for Jara arose in June, when his corpse was exhumed in a bid to find out more about who killed him and how.A former army conscript, Jos\u00e9 Adolfo Paredes M\u00e1rquez, has been charged with Jara's murder as a result of the new inquiry. He denies involvement, but told investigators that an army officer known as \"El Loco\" played Russian roulette with Jara as he was held in Santiago's football stadium after the coup. The officer allegedly held a gun to the singer's head, spinning the cylinder and firing repeatedly, until eventually a single bullet blasted into the singer's brain. Paredes said soldiers were then ordered to finish Jara off by pumping more than 40 bullets into his body.Investigators are still trying to trace \"El Loco\" and another officer, known as \"El Pr\u00edncipe\" (The Prince), who, according to survivors, was particularly sadistic. The only person to have been convicted in relation to his death was a guard at the stadium. It was there that the singer was tortured and shot. His corpse was dumped outside the stadium and later taken to a mortuary for his widow to collect.The public funeral was welcomed by leading politicians in Chile, which is in the middle of a hard-fought election campaign. \"Finally, after 36 years, V\u00edctor can rest in peace,\" said Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, who herself was a victim of the Pinochet regime and spent years in exile.Bachelet joined thousands of Chileans who filed past Jara's coffin during a two-day wake for the singer. Many of those who attended had, like Joan Jara, lost loved ones at the hands of the military.\"This is my father,\" said Cecilia Gonz\u00e1lez, pointing to a black-and-white photograph pinned to her lapel. \"He was a doctor who gave safe housing to a priest in the days after the coup. The priest was discovered and shot dead by a Chilean soldier. They arrested my father and tortured him and he died of his injuries. They killed our relatives, just like they killed V\u00edctor Jara.\"Jara's coffin was draped in his signature black-and-red woollen poncho during the wake. Wreaths of red roses and carnations were placed around it and some of those who arrived to pay their respects brought guitars and played his songs.An activist in the Chilean Communist party for much of his adult life, Jara remains a hero for the left and for musicians, not just in Chile but throughout Latin America and beyond. The Clash and U2 are among the groups who have paid homage to him.His handsome face, with its strong jawline and mop of curly black hair, is still a familiar sight on posters in Chile, and his music remains popular.Many of his best-known songs, such as Te Recuerdo, Amanda (I Remember You, Amanda) and Herminda de la Victoria (Herminda from Victoria), are simple ballads chronicling the lives of Chile's poor and downtrodden, its factory workers and its farmers.Others, such as El Derecho de Vivir en Paz (The Right to Live in Peace), refer to the international events of Jara's age, such as the Vietnam War.Jara rose to prominence in the late 1960s as part of the Nueva Canci\u00f3n (New Song) movement, which sought to infuse music with social commentary. With songs such as Preguntas por Puerto Montt (Questions about Puerto Montt) \u2013 which remembered a notorious massacre of landless poor in southern Chile in 1969 \u2013 he helped pave the way for the election of Allende in 1970.Throughout the three tumultuous years of Allende's government, Jara remained loyal to the president and his ideas. The two men died within days of each other.The inquiry into who should be held finally responsible for his death goes on. \"We need to know,\" said Guillermo Tellier, leader of the Chilean Communist party. \"We know how V\u00edctor Jara died, but we don't know who ordered his murder.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Music"], "title": "Murdered Chilean folk singer Victor Jara laid to rest after 36 years"},{"date": "2009-12-13T13:16:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the heart of Santiago's shopping district, a giggling group of professional young women are comparing plastic dildos. Their laughter continues as they browse the sex toys and lubricant gels in the Solo Adultos sex shop. After lengthy discussion, they settle on some fluffy handcuffs and a pair of Penthouse bunny ears.\"We get lots of hen parties in here\", says Tatiana Martinez, the shop assistant, pointing to the female office workers as they head off towards a nearby nightclub. \"But plenty of women come with their husbands, too,\" she adds. \"Women are becoming a lot more open about sex these days. And a lot more demanding.\"Sex shops are a comparatively new arrival to the Chilean high street. Until 2001, pornographic films were banned. Only five years ago, so was divorce. Today, Latin America's most straight-laced country is beginning to relax a little. As it does so, the role of women and gender stereotyping are slowly beginning to change.The cultural shift is most noticeable among Chile's younger generations. Outside Cherry Bar in the coastal town of Valparaiso, a queue of teenagers straggles around the block. The girls are dressed in mini-skirts and crop tops, despite the cold sea breeze. Once inside, there's a decision to be made: hetero, bi or gay. Cherry boasts a floor for each. Many teens visit all three.\"There's more sexual experimentation among young girls these days. The new generation are much more liberal and liberated,\" says Erika Montecinos, editor of the lesbian magazine Breaking the Silence. Official statistics back her up. Five percent of girls today under 18 years old have had more than one sexual partner, more than double the number from a decade ago. The span between dating and sexual activity (seven and a half months) has also shortened by 13.9% every year over the last ten years.\"Girls no longer want to wait until marriage to start having sex. There are lots of reasons why. They face less parental control for one thing. And then there's the influence of television and the media\", explains Ximena Luengo, a sexual health expert at the University of Chile.It's not just the younger generation that are enjoying a belated sexual revolution. SYO, Chile's first and only swingers bar, counts middle-aged couples among the mainstay of its clientele. Most are married with children and conventional jobs.\"As women, Chilean society never prepares you to be honest about your sexual preferences. Now couples are adventuring together,\" observes Sandra, SYO's 37-year-old owner.Nor is it just in the bedroom where gender relations are undergoing a metamorphosis. Women are making their presence felt in the workplace thanks to an increase in flexible working practices and a battery of new anti-discrimination laws.\"The traditional idea of a man going out to work and the woman staying at home is changing. Women need to work and they want to work,\" explains Sonia Monta\u00f1o, a specialist in gender development at the UN-backed Economic Commission for Latin America.High levels of female education help. An employed woman in Chile is likely to have 11 and a half years of schooling. In Brazil, the average is nine. In the corporate world, Chilean women typically study one more year than their male counterparts. Women are increasingly confident that personal merit rather than private wealth or good connections will get them ahead, according to sociologist Teresa Vald\u00e9s. \"This development has to do with the empowerment of women today, with the belief that 'I will be the best,\" she adds.Chilean woman might not be burning their bras but they are certainly loosening the shoulder straps. So why the sudden change?Women's rights groups are almost unanimous in their response: the Bachelet factor. Chile's first-ever female president, 57-year-old Michelle Bachelet, is credited with pushing gender issues up the political agenda.On assuming power in March 2006, she appointed female ministers to half her cabinet. She also gave the national ministry for women a long-overdue budgetary boost. Her motives were not impersonal. A separated mother, she juggled bringing up three children while carving out a successful career in Chile's male-dominated medical profession.\"Given the quantity of women in power under this administration, we can no longer say we are excluded\", Laura Albornoz, Chile's women's minister.She is quick to reel off the achievements of Bachelet's administration; a more than fivefold increase in the number of free cr\u00e8ches, a best practice code on flexible working; occupational training for 36,000 female heads of household.\"Many of the seeds we are sowing now, we won't be able to harvest immediately\", Albornoz admits, \"But there's no stepping back now.\"\"No hay marcha atr\u00e1s\" (\"No step backwards\"). It's a phrase borrowed from her boss. Bachelet has another favourite saying. Young girls used to dream of growing up to be nurses or teachers, it runs. Now they aspire to becoming president.With elections today and Bachelet constitutionally unable to stand for another four-year term, gender rights advocates are turning their minds to her legacy. \"The very fact of her presidency signifies an important cultural shift \u2026 It's helped foster a change in what women think they can do,\" says Maria Elena Valenzuela, a specialist on gender issues at the International Labout Organisation.The argument is laced with a dose of realism and a dozen provisos. Women's organisations are forced to admit that Chile in many ways remains a profoundly unequal, chauvinist society. Attitudes towards Bachelet herself prove that. In the street, everyday Chileans refer to her as La Gordis (\"the Fat Woman\"). \"Baywatch Babe\" ran one sarcastic headline in reference to recent photos of her in a swimsuit.Assessments of her political performance reflect similar gender biases. Consensus-building, listening, warm, inclusive \u2013 these are adjectives associated with Bachelet's political style. Rather than signs of progressive leadership, Chileans interpret them as evidence of dillydallying. \"She makes commissions,\" her opponents like to say, \"not decisions.\"The criticism is evidence of Chile's \"political immaturity\", according to Soledad Teixido, chief executive of the non-profit organisation ProHumana. She blames the country's history of autocratic, military rulers. Chile's last military government ended as recently as 1990, when Augusto Pinochet handed over power after 17 years.\"Our country isn't ready for a female style of leadership. She's not cuddly as the maternal stereotype demands, nor does she rule with a heavy hand. Ridiculous though it is, that looks bad on all of us,\" Teixido laments.Bachelet's strong performance during the global recession has done much to turn around the early criticism of her governing style. She leaves office with record approval ratings of around 80%. Two years ago, it dropped to below 40%.Full gender parity in Chile remains a long way off. Less than two in five women (38.5%) work, the lowest percentage in the continent. Women earn on average four-fifths (79%) that of male employees. Boardrooms and unions remain Clubes de Toby, the Chilean term for men-only institutions. Political representation is little better. Women number less than one in eight (13%) parliamentarians. In neighbouring Argentina, the figure is three times higher. Even Bachelet's 50-50 cabinet is no longer a paradigm of gender balance after a number of high-profile reshuffles.Recent opportunities to strike a fresh blow for the female cause have also come and gone. Moves to make the morning-after pill freely available, for example, were quashed by the (all-male) constitutional court. Efforts to establish a mandatory quota of women candidates in political parties have also failed to materialise.Women's groups valiantly press on. They take their victories where they can: contraceptive use being officially sanctioned in the fight against HIV/AIDS (until recently, government advice led on monogamy and pre-marital chastity); a high-profile campaign against domestic violence; a basic pension for housewives.At their most optimistic, gender experts see Chile moving towards a softer \"neo-machista\" society. Now men cook, albeit only at weekends or for dinner parties. No longer is it de moda for husbands to boast about hitting their wives or having affairs. In politically correct Chile, even the organisers of the local Miss World contest claim to be \"feminists\".Yet a change of language shouldn't be mistaken for a change of opinion. \"Culturally, we're not seen as subjects, but as objects,\" points out Sonia Montecino, the first female director of Chile's National Archive.Even as objects, women don't have it easy. In Chile, the religious and secular are fighting it out for primacy. On the one hand, the Catholic church espouses conservative virtues of piety, motherhood and dutiful sacrifice. On the other, the daily tabloids present women as silicon-enhanced, hyper-sexualised bonbones (\"bimbos\").The contradiction is lodged deep within the male psyche. Office workers think nothing of popping out for their morning latte to one of Santiago's myriad caf\u00e9 con piernas, a mix between Starbucks and Stringfellows. Fathers will gift breast implants to their teenage daughters, but expect them to remain virgins until marriage.But does the fault lie entirely with Chile's chauvinist men? \"The M of machismo begins with the M of mother,\" runs a popular Chilean saying. Feminists admit women can also be responsible for perpetuating negative stereotypes. \"Women like it that men are machista. It gives them security. People don't like things changing too quickly,\" says Maria de los Angeles, director of Chile's Elite model agency.Women are also put off building a career for fear of becoming \"masculinised\". If there's a choice to be made between staying late in the office or eating dinner with their children, they will invariably opt for the latter, explains Maria Marcet, deputy manager for social responsibility at Spanish-owned bank Santander. \"To an extent, they [make] their own glass ceiling.\"Talk of women's rights remains predominantly an urban, middle-class preoccupation. Chile's rural and indigenous communities treat feminist ideas with suspicion. Fifty-nine-year old Juana Millavil, a Mapuche Indian from a reservation near Temuco in southern Chile, has never gone on holiday. Without complaint, she rises at dawn to a full day of household chores.\"It's not good to be too feminist. Culturally, the man is the head of the family and deserves respect,\" she says, stirring a pot of stew for her husband's lunch.She has an opinion on Santiago's hen parties, too: \"Many women are taking advantage of their recent liberation. They go out and cheat on their husbands.\" At Solo Adultos, Tatiana dismisses such talk as belonging to the \"old Chile\". All the same, she has yet to tell her two children where she works. She prefers for their schoolmates not to know. Or their mothers.Oliver Balch is author of Viva South America!, published by Faber & Faber. ", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Gender", "Feminism", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Michelle Bachelet: the cultural legacy of Chile's first female president"},{"date": "2009-11-16T17:50:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Majestic Wine said today that drinkers were switching to more affordable \"New World\" wines and Prosecco to beat the credit crunch.Britain's largest wine warehouse chain said consumers were looking for \"value for money\" with bottles from New Zealand, South Africa and Chile selling better than those from the eurozone. Sales of bottles of wine in the \u00a320 plus price bracket - Majestic's average selling price is \u00a36.41 - were up 14.4% on the year as Britons sought to create a restaurant-style dining experience at home, said chief executive Steve Lewis.His comments came as Majestic reported a 9% rise in first half profits to \u00a36.1m. Like-for-like sales were up 5.4% in the 26 weeks to 28 September. He said Majestic expected to pick up market share from First Quench Retailing, the owner of Threshers and Wine Rack which fell into administration earlier this month, but does not want to buy any of its stores as it was \"not interested\" in high street locations.Off-licences have come under severe pressure in recent years due to the increasing dominance of supermarkets which account for 70% of the off-trade. First Quench had a 9% market share whereas Majestic has around 3%. Its administrators have already announced plans to close a third of the group's 1,200 stores. \"The removal of capacity from the high street has to have a beneficial effect for us,\" said Lewis. The retailer has 153 warehouse-style stores and sees scope to add another 100 sites. Shares in Majestic, which have risen 78% over the last year, closed up 3.7% at 254p.After a year-long trial, Majestic changed its trading strategy this autumn, lowering the minimum customer purchase requirement from 12 to six bottles in a bid to make the chain more accessible to current and new customers. When the threshold was set at a dozen Lewis said many customers had only shopped once a year, adding: \"Initial indications following the full rollout are encouraging.\"Majestic hopes higher sales to private individuals, which were up 8.9% in period, will offset weak demand from its business customers. Sales at its corporate business, which accounts for around a fifth of turnover, were down nearly 7%. \"Every finance director in every company across the land has put a red line through corporate entertaining and gifting,\" said Lewis. \"Whereas private customers, if you've got a compelling proposition, are still prepared to spend their own money.\"Alcohol has become a battleground of the big supermarkets chains over the Christmas sales period, with wines and spirits often used as loss leaders to lure shoppers into store.", "tags": ["Majestic Wine", "Food & drink industry", "Business"], "title": "New World and costlier wines do brisk trade for Majestic"},{"date": "2009-12-14T01:10:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A conservative businessman won most votes in Chile's presidential election yesterday, making him favourite to win a run-off and end nearly two decades of leftwing rule.Preliminary results gave the billionaire Sebastian Pinera 44% of the vote, far ahead of his nearest rival but not enough to clinch a first-round victory. Pinera, who owns stakes in an airline and a media firm, promised to rejuvenate the economy but not radically shift Chile to the right. \"Better times are coming to Chile,\" he said.Pinera will square off on 17 January against Eduardo Frei, a former president who ran on the ticket of the ruling coalition, Concertaci\u00f3n, which has been in power since the end of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship in 1990. Frei, who came second with 31%, will try to rally support from voters who backed two other leftwing candidates: Marco Enriquez-Ominami took 19% and Jorge Arrate took 6%.The country of 17 million people is a stable and prosperous Latin America success story, but Pinera tapped a perception that the ruling coalition was jaded. \"Chile needs a true renaissance which frees us from this state of lethargy,\" he wrote in a Sunday newspaper column.If Pinera prevails next month it would be the right's first poll victory in half a century, and distinguish Chile from a continent dominated by leftist governments.Analysts said he was the right's most moderate candidate and would keep Chile on a centrist course. The two-chamber congress is expected to remain divided.After a four-year term which saw copper and wine exports help to weather recession, President Michelle Bachelet has a 77% approval rating, but is constitutionally barred from seeking re-election.Frei, a civil engineer whose 1994-2000 administration was buffeted by economic problems, has put Bachelet's name and face on his campaign posters, but struggled to transfer her popularity. At 67, he represents the old guard in a country which seems to want change.The race was shaken up by Enr\u00edquez-Ominami, 36, a former film director and congressman who broke from the ruling coalition to run as an independent. Dubbed \"the rebel\", he promised to increase taxes on the rich and broached taboo subjects such as marijuana consumption, gay marriage and abortion.\"The big question is: What happens to Marco Enriquez-Ominami's votes?\" Fabian Pressacco, a political analyst who expects a tight race, told Reuters. \"How many of those votes will go to Frei? I think most of them will.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "Billionaire to face leftwing former leader in Chile's presidential runoff"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:05:15Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean folk singer V\u00edctor Jara, who became a symbol of opposition to the regime of Augusto Pinochet, was finally laid to rest in an emotional funeral in Santiago \u2013 36 years after he was tortured and murdered by the military government.Thousands of Chileans turned out to pay their respects to Jara, who rose from humble rural roots to become a renowned singer and theatre director in the early 1970s, when Chile witnessed a flourishing of radical ideas and the popular arts under Salvador Allende.Yesterday's funeral cortege was led by the singer's British widow, Joan. It was the second time she had buried her husband. In September 1973, a week after Pinochet led a coup against Allende, she took his lifeless body, riddled with machine-gun bullets, to Santiago's general cemetery and arranged a hasty, clandestine burial before fleeing into exile.The opportunity for a dignified funeral for Jara arose in June, when his corpse was exhumed in a bid to find out more about who killed him and how.A former army conscript, Jos\u00e9 Adolfo Paredes M\u00e1rquez, has been charged with Jara's murder as a result of the new inquiry. He denies involvement, but told investigators that an army officer known as \"El Loco\" played Russian roulette with Jara as he was held in Santiago's football stadium after the coup. The officer allegedly held a gun to the singer's head, spinning the cylinder and firing repeatedly, until eventually a single bullet blasted into the singer's brain. Paredes said soldiers were then ordered to finish Jara off by pumping more than 40 bullets into his body.Investigators are still trying to trace \"El Loco\" and another officer, known as \"El Pr\u00edncipe\" (The Prince), who, according to survivors, was particularly sadistic. The only person to have been convicted in relation to his death was a guard at the stadium. It was there that the singer was tortured and shot. His corpse was dumped outside the stadium and later taken to a mortuary for his widow to collect.The public funeral was welcomed by leading politicians in Chile, which is in the middle of a hard-fought election campaign. \"Finally, after 36 years, V\u00edctor can rest in peace,\" said Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, who herself was a victim of the Pinochet regime and spent years in exile.Bachelet joined thousands of Chileans who filed past Jara's coffin during a two-day wake for the singer. Many of those who attended had, like Joan Jara, lost loved ones at the hands of the military.\"This is my father,\" said Cecilia Gonz\u00e1lez, pointing to a black-and-white photograph pinned to her lapel. \"He was a doctor who gave safe housing to a priest in the days after the coup. The priest was discovered and shot dead by a Chilean soldier. They arrested my father and tortured him and he died of his injuries. They killed our relatives, just like they killed V\u00edctor Jara.\"Jara's coffin was draped in his signature black-and-red woollen poncho during the wake. Wreaths of red roses and carnations were placed around it and some of those who arrived to pay their respects brought guitars and played his songs.An activist in the Chilean Communist party for much of his adult life, Jara remains a hero for the left and for musicians, not just in Chile but throughout Latin America and beyond. The Clash and U2 are among the groups who have paid homage to him.His handsome face, with its strong jawline and mop of curly black hair, is still a familiar sight on posters in Chile, and his music remains popular.Many of his best-known songs, such as Te Recuerdo, Amanda (I Remember You, Amanda) and Herminda de la Victoria (Herminda from Victoria), are simple ballads chronicling the lives of Chile's poor and downtrodden, its factory workers and its farmers.Others, such as El Derecho de Vivir en Paz (The Right to Live in Peace), refer to the international events of Jara's age, such as the Vietnam War.Jara rose to prominence in the late 1960s as part of the Nueva Canci\u00f3n (New Song) movement, which sought to infuse music with social commentary. With songs such as Preguntas por Puerto Montt (Questions about Puerto Montt) \u2013 which remembered a notorious massacre of landless poor in southern Chile in 1969 \u2013 he helped pave the way for the election of Allende in 1970.Throughout the three tumultuous years of Allende's government, Jara remained loyal to the president and his ideas. The two men died within days of each other.The inquiry into who should be held finally responsible for his death goes on. \"We need to know,\" said Guillermo Tellier, leader of the Chilean Communist party. \"We know how V\u00edctor Jara died, but we don't know who ordered his murder.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Music"], "title": "Murdered Chilean folk singer Victor Jara laid to rest after 36 years"},{"date": "2009-12-11T12:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We know that General Augusto Pinochet, the largely unlamented military dictator of Chile, ordered the murder of Salvador Allende, his predecessor as president. Yet now it seems that he also commanded the death by poisoning of Eduardo Frei Montalva, Allende's immediate predecessor. Six people have been charged in Santiago this week with killing him, and topical piquancy has been given to the news by the fact that Frei's son, also Eduardo and also a former president, is a candidate in the first round of presidential elections this week.Such Shakespearean bloodletting is uncommon in Latin America, and Pinochet's capacity for regicide will now be added to his existing reputation as a cold-blooded killer. Might he not also, perhaps, have brought about the death in 1986 of Jorge Alessandri, Frei senior's predecessor, who unwittingly created the opportunity for Allende to become president by intervening in the election of 1970 and splitting the rightwing vote? Alessandri died in his bed in 1986, at the age of 90, with Pinochet still in power.Pinochet, who died three years ago, still has powerful supporters both in Chile and in Europe, but the firming-up of the frequently heard accusation that he was behind the unexplained death of Frei in 1982 may cause a yet more negative appraisal of his long 17-year period in power.Eduardo Frei Sr was president of Chile from 1964 to 1970, supported by both his own Christian Democrat party and by the United States. He was an exceptionally radical president, embarking on the nationalisation of the country's US-owned copper mines and the takeover of its large estates. These were measures that were extended during Allende's government, with Allende enjoying the benefits of the legislation initiated during the Frei era.Halfway through his period in power, Frei lost the support of the US government, which concluded that he was \"a weak reed\" in the struggle against the left. Fearing that Radomiro Tomic, Frei's Christian Democrat successor, would lose the presidential election of 1970 to Salvador Allende, the Americans switched their support to the right-wing candidate, ex-President Alessandri. It was an error, since, in a three-horse race, the socialist Allende was the winner.Frei was an initial supporter of the Pinochet coup in 1973 that put an end to Chile's socialist experiment, although he was not aware of the machinations of the military. Allende died by his own hand, but Pinochet had planned for him to be murdered. Frei moved rapidly into opposition to the coup when it became clear that Pinochet loathed the Christian Democrats almost as much as he hated the Socialists. The austere and uncorruptible Frei became a unifying figure within the growing ranks of the opposition to Pinochet, posing a clear and identifiable threat to the dictator's power. His early death was always regarded as suspicious, both by his family and the country at large, but it has taken many years of investigation to bring the apparent perpetrators to public attention.Eduardo Frei Jr benefited from his father's reputation and became the Chilean president in the 1990s, at the head of the so-called Concertaci\u00f3n of the Christian Democrats and the parties of the left that had once supported Allende. He is seeking re-election this week, to replace Michelle Bachelet, the existing Socialist president (though also a member of the Concertaci\u00f3n). At present, Frei is second in the opinion polls to Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, the rightwing candidate, although the news about his father's murder will surely improve his chances, specifically in a second round to be held in January.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Pinochet's other victim | Richard Gott"},{"date": "2009-12-13T13:16:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the heart of Santiago's shopping district, a giggling group of professional young women are comparing plastic dildos. Their laughter continues as they browse the sex toys and lubricant gels in the Solo Adultos sex shop. After lengthy discussion, they settle on some fluffy handcuffs and a pair of Penthouse bunny ears.\"We get lots of hen parties in here\", says Tatiana Martinez, the shop assistant, pointing to the female office workers as they head off towards a nearby nightclub. \"But plenty of women come with their husbands, too,\" she adds. \"Women are becoming a lot more open about sex these days. And a lot more demanding.\"Sex shops are a comparatively new arrival to the Chilean high street. Until 2001, pornographic films were banned. Only five years ago, so was divorce. Today, Latin America's most straight-laced country is beginning to relax a little. As it does so, the role of women and gender stereotyping are slowly beginning to change.The cultural shift is most noticeable among Chile's younger generations. Outside Cherry Bar in the coastal town of Valparaiso, a queue of teenagers straggles around the block. The girls are dressed in mini-skirts and crop tops, despite the cold sea breeze. Once inside, there's a decision to be made: hetero, bi or gay. Cherry boasts a floor for each. Many teens visit all three.\"There's more sexual experimentation among young girls these days. The new generation are much more liberal and liberated,\" says Erika Montecinos, editor of the lesbian magazine Breaking the Silence. Official statistics back her up. Five percent of girls today under 18 years old have had more than one sexual partner, more than double the number from a decade ago. The span between dating and sexual activity (seven and a half months) has also shortened by 13.9% every year over the last ten years.\"Girls no longer want to wait until marriage to start having sex. There are lots of reasons why. They face less parental control for one thing. And then there's the influence of television and the media\", explains Ximena Luengo, a sexual health expert at the University of Chile.It's not just the younger generation that are enjoying a belated sexual revolution. SYO, Chile's first and only swingers bar, counts middle-aged couples among the mainstay of its clientele. Most are married with children and conventional jobs.\"As women, Chilean society never prepares you to be honest about your sexual preferences. Now couples are adventuring together,\" observes Sandra, SYO's 37-year-old owner.Nor is it just in the bedroom where gender relations are undergoing a metamorphosis. Women are making their presence felt in the workplace thanks to an increase in flexible working practices and a battery of new anti-discrimination laws.\"The traditional idea of a man going out to work and the woman staying at home is changing. Women need to work and they want to work,\" explains Sonia Monta\u00f1o, a specialist in gender development at the UN-backed Economic Commission for Latin America.High levels of female education help. An employed woman in Chile is likely to have 11 and a half years of schooling. In Brazil, the average is nine. In the corporate world, Chilean women typically study one more year than their male counterparts. Women are increasingly confident that personal merit rather than private wealth or good connections will get them ahead, according to sociologist Teresa Vald\u00e9s. \"This development has to do with the empowerment of women today, with the belief that 'I will be the best,\" she adds.Chilean woman might not be burning their bras but they are certainly loosening the shoulder straps. So why the sudden change?Women's rights groups are almost unanimous in their response: the Bachelet factor. Chile's first-ever female president, 57-year-old Michelle Bachelet, is credited with pushing gender issues up the political agenda.On assuming power in March 2006, she appointed female ministers to half her cabinet. She also gave the national ministry for women a long-overdue budgetary boost. Her motives were not impersonal. A separated mother, she juggled bringing up three children while carving out a successful career in Chile's male-dominated medical profession.\"Given the quantity of women in power under this administration, we can no longer say we are excluded\", Laura Albornoz, Chile's women's minister.She is quick to reel off the achievements of Bachelet's administration; a more than fivefold increase in the number of free cr\u00e8ches, a best practice code on flexible working; occupational training for 36,000 female heads of household.\"Many of the seeds we are sowing now, we won't be able to harvest immediately\", Albornoz admits, \"But there's no stepping back now.\"\"No hay marcha atr\u00e1s\" (\"No step backwards\"). It's a phrase borrowed from her boss. Bachelet has another favourite saying. Young girls used to dream of growing up to be nurses or teachers, it runs. Now they aspire to becoming president.With elections today and Bachelet constitutionally unable to stand for another four-year term, gender rights advocates are turning their minds to her legacy. \"The very fact of her presidency signifies an important cultural shift \u2026 It's helped foster a change in what women think they can do,\" says Maria Elena Valenzuela, a specialist on gender issues at the International Labout Organisation.The argument is laced with a dose of realism and a dozen provisos. Women's organisations are forced to admit that Chile in many ways remains a profoundly unequal, chauvinist society. Attitudes towards Bachelet herself prove that. In the street, everyday Chileans refer to her as La Gordis (\"the Fat Woman\"). \"Baywatch Babe\" ran one sarcastic headline in reference to recent photos of her in a swimsuit.Assessments of her political performance reflect similar gender biases. Consensus-building, listening, warm, inclusive \u2013 these are adjectives associated with Bachelet's political style. Rather than signs of progressive leadership, Chileans interpret them as evidence of dillydallying. \"She makes commissions,\" her opponents like to say, \"not decisions.\"The criticism is evidence of Chile's \"political immaturity\", according to Soledad Teixido, chief executive of the non-profit organisation ProHumana. She blames the country's history of autocratic, military rulers. Chile's last military government ended as recently as 1990, when Augusto Pinochet handed over power after 17 years.\"Our country isn't ready for a female style of leadership. She's not cuddly as the maternal stereotype demands, nor does she rule with a heavy hand. Ridiculous though it is, that looks bad on all of us,\" Teixido laments.Bachelet's strong performance during the global recession has done much to turn around the early criticism of her governing style. She leaves office with record approval ratings of around 80%. Two years ago, it dropped to below 40%.Full gender parity in Chile remains a long way off. Less than two in five women (38.5%) work, the lowest percentage in the continent. Women earn on average four-fifths (79%) that of male employees. Boardrooms and unions remain Clubes de Toby, the Chilean term for men-only institutions. Political representation is little better. Women number less than one in eight (13%) parliamentarians. In neighbouring Argentina, the figure is three times higher. Even Bachelet's 50-50 cabinet is no longer a paradigm of gender balance after a number of high-profile reshuffles.Recent opportunities to strike a fresh blow for the female cause have also come and gone. Moves to make the morning-after pill freely available, for example, were quashed by the (all-male) constitutional court. Efforts to establish a mandatory quota of women candidates in political parties have also failed to materialise.Women's groups valiantly press on. They take their victories where they can: contraceptive use being officially sanctioned in the fight against HIV/AIDS (until recently, government advice led on monogamy and pre-marital chastity); a high-profile campaign against domestic violence; a basic pension for housewives.At their most optimistic, gender experts see Chile moving towards a softer \"neo-machista\" society. Now men cook, albeit only at weekends or for dinner parties. No longer is it de moda for husbands to boast about hitting their wives or having affairs. In politically correct Chile, even the organisers of the local Miss World contest claim to be \"feminists\".Yet a change of language shouldn't be mistaken for a change of opinion. \"Culturally, we're not seen as subjects, but as objects,\" points out Sonia Montecino, the first female director of Chile's National Archive.Even as objects, women don't have it easy. In Chile, the religious and secular are fighting it out for primacy. On the one hand, the Catholic church espouses conservative virtues of piety, motherhood and dutiful sacrifice. On the other, the daily tabloids present women as silicon-enhanced, hyper-sexualised bonbones (\"bimbos\").The contradiction is lodged deep within the male psyche. Office workers think nothing of popping out for their morning latte to one of Santiago's myriad caf\u00e9 con piernas, a mix between Starbucks and Stringfellows. Fathers will gift breast implants to their teenage daughters, but expect them to remain virgins until marriage.But does the fault lie entirely with Chile's chauvinist men? \"The M of machismo begins with the M of mother,\" runs a popular Chilean saying. Feminists admit women can also be responsible for perpetuating negative stereotypes. \"Women like it that men are machista. It gives them security. People don't like things changing too quickly,\" says Maria de los Angeles, director of Chile's Elite model agency.Women are also put off building a career for fear of becoming \"masculinised\". If there's a choice to be made between staying late in the office or eating dinner with their children, they will invariably opt for the latter, explains Maria Marcet, deputy manager for social responsibility at Spanish-owned bank Santander. \"To an extent, they [make] their own glass ceiling.\"Talk of women's rights remains predominantly an urban, middle-class preoccupation. Chile's rural and indigenous communities treat feminist ideas with suspicion. Fifty-nine-year old Juana Millavil, a Mapuche Indian from a reservation near Temuco in southern Chile, has never gone on holiday. Without complaint, she rises at dawn to a full day of household chores.\"It's not good to be too feminist. Culturally, the man is the head of the family and deserves respect,\" she says, stirring a pot of stew for her husband's lunch.She has an opinion on Santiago's hen parties, too: \"Many women are taking advantage of their recent liberation. They go out and cheat on their husbands.\" At Solo Adultos, Tatiana dismisses such talk as belonging to the \"old Chile\". All the same, she has yet to tell her two children where she works. She prefers for their schoolmates not to know. Or their mothers.Oliver Balch is author of Viva South America!, published by Faber & Faber. ", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Gender", "Feminism", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Michelle Bachelet: the cultural legacy of Chile's first female president"},{"date": "2009-11-16T17:50:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Majestic Wine said today that drinkers were switching to more affordable \"New World\" wines and Prosecco to beat the credit crunch.Britain's largest wine warehouse chain said consumers were looking for \"value for money\" with bottles from New Zealand, South Africa and Chile selling better than those from the eurozone. Sales of bottles of wine in the \u00a320 plus price bracket - Majestic's average selling price is \u00a36.41 - were up 14.4% on the year as Britons sought to create a restaurant-style dining experience at home, said chief executive Steve Lewis.His comments came as Majestic reported a 9% rise in first half profits to \u00a36.1m. Like-for-like sales were up 5.4% in the 26 weeks to 28 September. He said Majestic expected to pick up market share from First Quench Retailing, the owner of Threshers and Wine Rack which fell into administration earlier this month, but does not want to buy any of its stores as it was \"not interested\" in high street locations.Off-licences have come under severe pressure in recent years due to the increasing dominance of supermarkets which account for 70% of the off-trade. First Quench had a 9% market share whereas Majestic has around 3%. Its administrators have already announced plans to close a third of the group's 1,200 stores. \"The removal of capacity from the high street has to have a beneficial effect for us,\" said Lewis. The retailer has 153 warehouse-style stores and sees scope to add another 100 sites. Shares in Majestic, which have risen 78% over the last year, closed up 3.7% at 254p.After a year-long trial, Majestic changed its trading strategy this autumn, lowering the minimum customer purchase requirement from 12 to six bottles in a bid to make the chain more accessible to current and new customers. When the threshold was set at a dozen Lewis said many customers had only shopped once a year, adding: \"Initial indications following the full rollout are encouraging.\"Majestic hopes higher sales to private individuals, which were up 8.9% in period, will offset weak demand from its business customers. Sales at its corporate business, which accounts for around a fifth of turnover, were down nearly 7%. \"Every finance director in every company across the land has put a red line through corporate entertaining and gifting,\" said Lewis. \"Whereas private customers, if you've got a compelling proposition, are still prepared to spend their own money.\"Alcohol has become a battleground of the big supermarkets chains over the Christmas sales period, with wines and spirits often used as loss leaders to lure shoppers into store.", "tags": ["Majestic Wine", "Food & drink industry", "Business"], "title": "New World and costlier wines do brisk trade for Majestic"},{"date": "2009-12-14T01:10:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A conservative businessman won most votes in Chile's presidential election yesterday, making him favourite to win a run-off and end nearly two decades of leftwing rule.Preliminary results gave the billionaire Sebastian Pinera 44% of the vote, far ahead of his nearest rival but not enough to clinch a first-round victory. Pinera, who owns stakes in an airline and a media firm, promised to rejuvenate the economy but not radically shift Chile to the right. \"Better times are coming to Chile,\" he said.Pinera will square off on 17 January against Eduardo Frei, a former president who ran on the ticket of the ruling coalition, Concertaci\u00f3n, which has been in power since the end of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship in 1990. Frei, who came second with 31%, will try to rally support from voters who backed two other leftwing candidates: Marco Enriquez-Ominami took 19% and Jorge Arrate took 6%.The country of 17 million people is a stable and prosperous Latin America success story, but Pinera tapped a perception that the ruling coalition was jaded. \"Chile needs a true renaissance which frees us from this state of lethargy,\" he wrote in a Sunday newspaper column.If Pinera prevails next month it would be the right's first poll victory in half a century, and distinguish Chile from a continent dominated by leftist governments.Analysts said he was the right's most moderate candidate and would keep Chile on a centrist course. The two-chamber congress is expected to remain divided.After a four-year term which saw copper and wine exports help to weather recession, President Michelle Bachelet has a 77% approval rating, but is constitutionally barred from seeking re-election.Frei, a civil engineer whose 1994-2000 administration was buffeted by economic problems, has put Bachelet's name and face on his campaign posters, but struggled to transfer her popularity. At 67, he represents the old guard in a country which seems to want change.The race was shaken up by Enr\u00edquez-Ominami, 36, a former film director and congressman who broke from the ruling coalition to run as an independent. Dubbed \"the rebel\", he promised to increase taxes on the rich and broached taboo subjects such as marijuana consumption, gay marriage and abortion.\"The big question is: What happens to Marco Enriquez-Ominami's votes?\" Fabian Pressacco, a political analyst who expects a tight race, told Reuters. \"How many of those votes will go to Frei? I think most of them will.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "Billionaire to face leftwing former leader in Chile's presidential runoff"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:05:15Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean folk singer V\u00edctor Jara, who became a symbol of opposition to the regime of Augusto Pinochet, was finally laid to rest in an emotional funeral in Santiago \u2013 36 years after he was tortured and murdered by the military government.Thousands of Chileans turned out to pay their respects to Jara, who rose from humble rural roots to become a renowned singer and theatre director in the early 1970s, when Chile witnessed a flourishing of radical ideas and the popular arts under Salvador Allende.Yesterday's funeral cortege was led by the singer's British widow, Joan. It was the second time she had buried her husband. In September 1973, a week after Pinochet led a coup against Allende, she took his lifeless body, riddled with machine-gun bullets, to Santiago's general cemetery and arranged a hasty, clandestine burial before fleeing into exile.The opportunity for a dignified funeral for Jara arose in June, when his corpse was exhumed in a bid to find out more about who killed him and how.A former army conscript, Jos\u00e9 Adolfo Paredes M\u00e1rquez, has been charged with Jara's murder as a result of the new inquiry. He denies involvement, but told investigators that an army officer known as \"El Loco\" played Russian roulette with Jara as he was held in Santiago's football stadium after the coup. The officer allegedly held a gun to the singer's head, spinning the cylinder and firing repeatedly, until eventually a single bullet blasted into the singer's brain. Paredes said soldiers were then ordered to finish Jara off by pumping more than 40 bullets into his body.Investigators are still trying to trace \"El Loco\" and another officer, known as \"El Pr\u00edncipe\" (The Prince), who, according to survivors, was particularly sadistic. The only person to have been convicted in relation to his death was a guard at the stadium. It was there that the singer was tortured and shot. His corpse was dumped outside the stadium and later taken to a mortuary for his widow to collect.The public funeral was welcomed by leading politicians in Chile, which is in the middle of a hard-fought election campaign. \"Finally, after 36 years, V\u00edctor can rest in peace,\" said Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, who herself was a victim of the Pinochet regime and spent years in exile.Bachelet joined thousands of Chileans who filed past Jara's coffin during a two-day wake for the singer. Many of those who attended had, like Joan Jara, lost loved ones at the hands of the military.\"This is my father,\" said Cecilia Gonz\u00e1lez, pointing to a black-and-white photograph pinned to her lapel. \"He was a doctor who gave safe housing to a priest in the days after the coup. The priest was discovered and shot dead by a Chilean soldier. They arrested my father and tortured him and he died of his injuries. They killed our relatives, just like they killed V\u00edctor Jara.\"Jara's coffin was draped in his signature black-and-red woollen poncho during the wake. Wreaths of red roses and carnations were placed around it and some of those who arrived to pay their respects brought guitars and played his songs.An activist in the Chilean Communist party for much of his adult life, Jara remains a hero for the left and for musicians, not just in Chile but throughout Latin America and beyond. The Clash and U2 are among the groups who have paid homage to him.His handsome face, with its strong jawline and mop of curly black hair, is still a familiar sight on posters in Chile, and his music remains popular.Many of his best-known songs, such as Te Recuerdo, Amanda (I Remember You, Amanda) and Herminda de la Victoria (Herminda from Victoria), are simple ballads chronicling the lives of Chile's poor and downtrodden, its factory workers and its farmers.Others, such as El Derecho de Vivir en Paz (The Right to Live in Peace), refer to the international events of Jara's age, such as the Vietnam War.Jara rose to prominence in the late 1960s as part of the Nueva Canci\u00f3n (New Song) movement, which sought to infuse music with social commentary. With songs such as Preguntas por Puerto Montt (Questions about Puerto Montt) \u2013 which remembered a notorious massacre of landless poor in southern Chile in 1969 \u2013 he helped pave the way for the election of Allende in 1970.Throughout the three tumultuous years of Allende's government, Jara remained loyal to the president and his ideas. The two men died within days of each other.The inquiry into who should be held finally responsible for his death goes on. \"We need to know,\" said Guillermo Tellier, leader of the Chilean Communist party. \"We know how V\u00edctor Jara died, but we don't know who ordered his murder.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Music"], "title": "Murdered Chilean folk singer Victor Jara laid to rest after 36 years"},{"date": "2009-12-11T12:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We know that General Augusto Pinochet, the largely unlamented military dictator of Chile, ordered the murder of Salvador Allende, his predecessor as president. Yet now it seems that he also commanded the death by poisoning of Eduardo Frei Montalva, Allende's immediate predecessor. Six people have been charged in Santiago this week with killing him, and topical piquancy has been given to the news by the fact that Frei's son, also Eduardo and also a former president, is a candidate in the first round of presidential elections this week.Such Shakespearean bloodletting is uncommon in Latin America, and Pinochet's capacity for regicide will now be added to his existing reputation as a cold-blooded killer. Might he not also, perhaps, have brought about the death in 1986 of Jorge Alessandri, Frei senior's predecessor, who unwittingly created the opportunity for Allende to become president by intervening in the election of 1970 and splitting the rightwing vote? Alessandri died in his bed in 1986, at the age of 90, with Pinochet still in power.Pinochet, who died three years ago, still has powerful supporters both in Chile and in Europe, but the firming-up of the frequently heard accusation that he was behind the unexplained death of Frei in 1982 may cause a yet more negative appraisal of his long 17-year period in power.Eduardo Frei Sr was president of Chile from 1964 to 1970, supported by both his own Christian Democrat party and by the United States. He was an exceptionally radical president, embarking on the nationalisation of the country's US-owned copper mines and the takeover of its large estates. These were measures that were extended during Allende's government, with Allende enjoying the benefits of the legislation initiated during the Frei era.Halfway through his period in power, Frei lost the support of the US government, which concluded that he was \"a weak reed\" in the struggle against the left. Fearing that Radomiro Tomic, Frei's Christian Democrat successor, would lose the presidential election of 1970 to Salvador Allende, the Americans switched their support to the right-wing candidate, ex-President Alessandri. It was an error, since, in a three-horse race, the socialist Allende was the winner.Frei was an initial supporter of the Pinochet coup in 1973 that put an end to Chile's socialist experiment, although he was not aware of the machinations of the military. Allende died by his own hand, but Pinochet had planned for him to be murdered. Frei moved rapidly into opposition to the coup when it became clear that Pinochet loathed the Christian Democrats almost as much as he hated the Socialists. The austere and uncorruptible Frei became a unifying figure within the growing ranks of the opposition to Pinochet, posing a clear and identifiable threat to the dictator's power. His early death was always regarded as suspicious, both by his family and the country at large, but it has taken many years of investigation to bring the apparent perpetrators to public attention.Eduardo Frei Jr benefited from his father's reputation and became the Chilean president in the 1990s, at the head of the so-called Concertaci\u00f3n of the Christian Democrats and the parties of the left that had once supported Allende. He is seeking re-election this week, to replace Michelle Bachelet, the existing Socialist president (though also a member of the Concertaci\u00f3n). At present, Frei is second in the opinion polls to Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, the rightwing candidate, although the news about his father's murder will surely improve his chances, specifically in a second round to be held in January.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Pinochet's other victim | Richard Gott"},{"date": "2009-12-08T21:51:18Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Six men have been arrested in Chile over the murder of the country's former president Eduardo Frei Montalva, whose death in 1982 has been one of the most enduring mysteries of the Pinochet regime.Three suspects were charged with murder and three others with being accomplices to murder.Frei Montalva died at the Santa Maria clinic in Santiago, where he was recuperating from a hernia operation. Judge Alejandro Madrid, who investigated the case for seven years, said yesterday that the former Chilean leader was poisoned to death as multiple doses of thallium and mustard gas were secretly mixed with medications and injected into the president's body.\"This was an action by the military intelligence of the dictator [Pinochet], with a clear and precise objective, the elimination of President Frei,\" said Alvaro Varela, a human rights lawyer working for the Frei family. \"Those charged today are not the only ones ... there are more and we are headed in their direction.\"Family members had suspected Frei was poisoned after being tipped off by former aides to General Pinochet. In his 2002 book, Imperfect Crime, Chilean journalist Jorge Molina profiled Eugenio Barrios, a chemist who worked for the Chilean secret police on a series of radical experiments including the production of anthrax, botulism and the nerve gas sarin. Barrios, who was murdered in Uruguay, is suspected of administering the poison to Frei.The arrests came ahead of Sunday's presidential election, in which Senator Eduardo Frei, son of the murdered president, is one of the leading candidates. \"There is a before and an after because never before has there been [in Chile] an attack taking the life of a president,\" the senator said yesterday.\"This shows that justice takes time, but it does finally arrive as it has in this case,\" The Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, said. \"This is good for our society.\"Those arrested included medical personnel and members of the Pinochet secret police known as the Dina.The doctors were charged as accomplices for their role in conducting an illegal autopsy, removing all organs from the body of Frei and stuffing his corpse with gauze.Frei, who ruled Chile as a progressive president from 1964-1970, initially supported the 1973 military coup that led to the death of the president at the time, Salvador Allende. But, after human rights crimes, including thousands of murders, Frei Montalva emerged in 1980 as a key figure in the growing opposition to the military government led by Augusto Pinochet.The murder of Frei in January 1982 was followed a month later by the assassination of Tucapel Jim\u00e9nez, a leading union organiser, as the Pinochet regime systematically eliminated leading figures in the democratic opposition.", "tags": ["Chile", "Augusto Pinochet", "World news"], "title": "Six arrested over murder of former Chilean president"},{"date": "2009-12-13T13:16:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the heart of Santiago's shopping district, a giggling group of professional young women are comparing plastic dildos. Their laughter continues as they browse the sex toys and lubricant gels in the Solo Adultos sex shop. After lengthy discussion, they settle on some fluffy handcuffs and a pair of Penthouse bunny ears.\"We get lots of hen parties in here\", says Tatiana Martinez, the shop assistant, pointing to the female office workers as they head off towards a nearby nightclub. \"But plenty of women come with their husbands, too,\" she adds. \"Women are becoming a lot more open about sex these days. And a lot more demanding.\"Sex shops are a comparatively new arrival to the Chilean high street. Until 2001, pornographic films were banned. Only five years ago, so was divorce. Today, Latin America's most straight-laced country is beginning to relax a little. As it does so, the role of women and gender stereotyping are slowly beginning to change.The cultural shift is most noticeable among Chile's younger generations. Outside Cherry Bar in the coastal town of Valparaiso, a queue of teenagers straggles around the block. The girls are dressed in mini-skirts and crop tops, despite the cold sea breeze. Once inside, there's a decision to be made: hetero, bi or gay. Cherry boasts a floor for each. Many teens visit all three.\"There's more sexual experimentation among young girls these days. The new generation are much more liberal and liberated,\" says Erika Montecinos, editor of the lesbian magazine Breaking the Silence. Official statistics back her up. Five percent of girls today under 18 years old have had more than one sexual partner, more than double the number from a decade ago. The span between dating and sexual activity (seven and a half months) has also shortened by 13.9% every year over the last ten years.\"Girls no longer want to wait until marriage to start having sex. There are lots of reasons why. They face less parental control for one thing. And then there's the influence of television and the media\", explains Ximena Luengo, a sexual health expert at the University of Chile.It's not just the younger generation that are enjoying a belated sexual revolution. SYO, Chile's first and only swingers bar, counts middle-aged couples among the mainstay of its clientele. Most are married with children and conventional jobs.\"As women, Chilean society never prepares you to be honest about your sexual preferences. Now couples are adventuring together,\" observes Sandra, SYO's 37-year-old owner.Nor is it just in the bedroom where gender relations are undergoing a metamorphosis. Women are making their presence felt in the workplace thanks to an increase in flexible working practices and a battery of new anti-discrimination laws.\"The traditional idea of a man going out to work and the woman staying at home is changing. Women need to work and they want to work,\" explains Sonia Monta\u00f1o, a specialist in gender development at the UN-backed Economic Commission for Latin America.High levels of female education help. An employed woman in Chile is likely to have 11 and a half years of schooling. In Brazil, the average is nine. In the corporate world, Chilean women typically study one more year than their male counterparts. Women are increasingly confident that personal merit rather than private wealth or good connections will get them ahead, according to sociologist Teresa Vald\u00e9s. \"This development has to do with the empowerment of women today, with the belief that 'I will be the best,\" she adds.Chilean woman might not be burning their bras but they are certainly loosening the shoulder straps. So why the sudden change?Women's rights groups are almost unanimous in their response: the Bachelet factor. Chile's first-ever female president, 57-year-old Michelle Bachelet, is credited with pushing gender issues up the political agenda.On assuming power in March 2006, she appointed female ministers to half her cabinet. She also gave the national ministry for women a long-overdue budgetary boost. Her motives were not impersonal. A separated mother, she juggled bringing up three children while carving out a successful career in Chile's male-dominated medical profession.\"Given the quantity of women in power under this administration, we can no longer say we are excluded\", Laura Albornoz, Chile's women's minister.She is quick to reel off the achievements of Bachelet's administration; a more than fivefold increase in the number of free cr\u00e8ches, a best practice code on flexible working; occupational training for 36,000 female heads of household.\"Many of the seeds we are sowing now, we won't be able to harvest immediately\", Albornoz admits, \"But there's no stepping back now.\"\"No hay marcha atr\u00e1s\" (\"No step backwards\"). It's a phrase borrowed from her boss. Bachelet has another favourite saying. Young girls used to dream of growing up to be nurses or teachers, it runs. Now they aspire to becoming president.With elections today and Bachelet constitutionally unable to stand for another four-year term, gender rights advocates are turning their minds to her legacy. \"The very fact of her presidency signifies an important cultural shift \u2026 It's helped foster a change in what women think they can do,\" says Maria Elena Valenzuela, a specialist on gender issues at the International Labout Organisation.The argument is laced with a dose of realism and a dozen provisos. Women's organisations are forced to admit that Chile in many ways remains a profoundly unequal, chauvinist society. Attitudes towards Bachelet herself prove that. In the street, everyday Chileans refer to her as La Gordis (\"the Fat Woman\"). \"Baywatch Babe\" ran one sarcastic headline in reference to recent photos of her in a swimsuit.Assessments of her political performance reflect similar gender biases. Consensus-building, listening, warm, inclusive \u2013 these are adjectives associated with Bachelet's political style. Rather than signs of progressive leadership, Chileans interpret them as evidence of dillydallying. \"She makes commissions,\" her opponents like to say, \"not decisions.\"The criticism is evidence of Chile's \"political immaturity\", according to Soledad Teixido, chief executive of the non-profit organisation ProHumana. She blames the country's history of autocratic, military rulers. Chile's last military government ended as recently as 1990, when Augusto Pinochet handed over power after 17 years.\"Our country isn't ready for a female style of leadership. She's not cuddly as the maternal stereotype demands, nor does she rule with a heavy hand. Ridiculous though it is, that looks bad on all of us,\" Teixido laments.Bachelet's strong performance during the global recession has done much to turn around the early criticism of her governing style. She leaves office with record approval ratings of around 80%. Two years ago, it dropped to below 40%.Full gender parity in Chile remains a long way off. Less than two in five women (38.5%) work, the lowest percentage in the continent. Women earn on average four-fifths (79%) that of male employees. Boardrooms and unions remain Clubes de Toby, the Chilean term for men-only institutions. Political representation is little better. Women number less than one in eight (13%) parliamentarians. In neighbouring Argentina, the figure is three times higher. Even Bachelet's 50-50 cabinet is no longer a paradigm of gender balance after a number of high-profile reshuffles.Recent opportunities to strike a fresh blow for the female cause have also come and gone. Moves to make the morning-after pill freely available, for example, were quashed by the (all-male) constitutional court. Efforts to establish a mandatory quota of women candidates in political parties have also failed to materialise.Women's groups valiantly press on. They take their victories where they can: contraceptive use being officially sanctioned in the fight against HIV/AIDS (until recently, government advice led on monogamy and pre-marital chastity); a high-profile campaign against domestic violence; a basic pension for housewives.At their most optimistic, gender experts see Chile moving towards a softer \"neo-machista\" society. Now men cook, albeit only at weekends or for dinner parties. No longer is it de moda for husbands to boast about hitting their wives or having affairs. In politically correct Chile, even the organisers of the local Miss World contest claim to be \"feminists\".Yet a change of language shouldn't be mistaken for a change of opinion. \"Culturally, we're not seen as subjects, but as objects,\" points out Sonia Montecino, the first female director of Chile's National Archive.Even as objects, women don't have it easy. In Chile, the religious and secular are fighting it out for primacy. On the one hand, the Catholic church espouses conservative virtues of piety, motherhood and dutiful sacrifice. On the other, the daily tabloids present women as silicon-enhanced, hyper-sexualised bonbones (\"bimbos\").The contradiction is lodged deep within the male psyche. Office workers think nothing of popping out for their morning latte to one of Santiago's myriad caf\u00e9 con piernas, a mix between Starbucks and Stringfellows. Fathers will gift breast implants to their teenage daughters, but expect them to remain virgins until marriage.But does the fault lie entirely with Chile's chauvinist men? \"The M of machismo begins with the M of mother,\" runs a popular Chilean saying. Feminists admit women can also be responsible for perpetuating negative stereotypes. \"Women like it that men are machista. It gives them security. People don't like things changing too quickly,\" says Maria de los Angeles, director of Chile's Elite model agency.Women are also put off building a career for fear of becoming \"masculinised\". If there's a choice to be made between staying late in the office or eating dinner with their children, they will invariably opt for the latter, explains Maria Marcet, deputy manager for social responsibility at Spanish-owned bank Santander. \"To an extent, they [make] their own glass ceiling.\"Talk of women's rights remains predominantly an urban, middle-class preoccupation. Chile's rural and indigenous communities treat feminist ideas with suspicion. Fifty-nine-year old Juana Millavil, a Mapuche Indian from a reservation near Temuco in southern Chile, has never gone on holiday. Without complaint, she rises at dawn to a full day of household chores.\"It's not good to be too feminist. Culturally, the man is the head of the family and deserves respect,\" she says, stirring a pot of stew for her husband's lunch.She has an opinion on Santiago's hen parties, too: \"Many women are taking advantage of their recent liberation. They go out and cheat on their husbands.\" At Solo Adultos, Tatiana dismisses such talk as belonging to the \"old Chile\". All the same, she has yet to tell her two children where she works. She prefers for their schoolmates not to know. Or their mothers.Oliver Balch is author of Viva South America!, published by Faber & Faber. ", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Gender", "Feminism", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Michelle Bachelet: the cultural legacy of Chile's first female president"},{"date": "2009-11-16T17:50:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Majestic Wine said today that drinkers were switching to more affordable \"New World\" wines and Prosecco to beat the credit crunch.Britain's largest wine warehouse chain said consumers were looking for \"value for money\" with bottles from New Zealand, South Africa and Chile selling better than those from the eurozone. Sales of bottles of wine in the \u00a320 plus price bracket - Majestic's average selling price is \u00a36.41 - were up 14.4% on the year as Britons sought to create a restaurant-style dining experience at home, said chief executive Steve Lewis.His comments came as Majestic reported a 9% rise in first half profits to \u00a36.1m. Like-for-like sales were up 5.4% in the 26 weeks to 28 September. He said Majestic expected to pick up market share from First Quench Retailing, the owner of Threshers and Wine Rack which fell into administration earlier this month, but does not want to buy any of its stores as it was \"not interested\" in high street locations.Off-licences have come under severe pressure in recent years due to the increasing dominance of supermarkets which account for 70% of the off-trade. First Quench had a 9% market share whereas Majestic has around 3%. Its administrators have already announced plans to close a third of the group's 1,200 stores. \"The removal of capacity from the high street has to have a beneficial effect for us,\" said Lewis. The retailer has 153 warehouse-style stores and sees scope to add another 100 sites. Shares in Majestic, which have risen 78% over the last year, closed up 3.7% at 254p.After a year-long trial, Majestic changed its trading strategy this autumn, lowering the minimum customer purchase requirement from 12 to six bottles in a bid to make the chain more accessible to current and new customers. When the threshold was set at a dozen Lewis said many customers had only shopped once a year, adding: \"Initial indications following the full rollout are encouraging.\"Majestic hopes higher sales to private individuals, which were up 8.9% in period, will offset weak demand from its business customers. Sales at its corporate business, which accounts for around a fifth of turnover, were down nearly 7%. \"Every finance director in every company across the land has put a red line through corporate entertaining and gifting,\" said Lewis. \"Whereas private customers, if you've got a compelling proposition, are still prepared to spend their own money.\"Alcohol has become a battleground of the big supermarkets chains over the Christmas sales period, with wines and spirits often used as loss leaders to lure shoppers into store.", "tags": ["Majestic Wine", "Food & drink industry", "Business"], "title": "New World and costlier wines do brisk trade for Majestic"},{"date": "2009-12-14T01:10:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A conservative businessman won most votes in Chile's presidential election yesterday, making him favourite to win a run-off and end nearly two decades of leftwing rule.Preliminary results gave the billionaire Sebastian Pinera 44% of the vote, far ahead of his nearest rival but not enough to clinch a first-round victory. Pinera, who owns stakes in an airline and a media firm, promised to rejuvenate the economy but not radically shift Chile to the right. \"Better times are coming to Chile,\" he said.Pinera will square off on 17 January against Eduardo Frei, a former president who ran on the ticket of the ruling coalition, Concertaci\u00f3n, which has been in power since the end of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship in 1990. Frei, who came second with 31%, will try to rally support from voters who backed two other leftwing candidates: Marco Enriquez-Ominami took 19% and Jorge Arrate took 6%.The country of 17 million people is a stable and prosperous Latin America success story, but Pinera tapped a perception that the ruling coalition was jaded. \"Chile needs a true renaissance which frees us from this state of lethargy,\" he wrote in a Sunday newspaper column.If Pinera prevails next month it would be the right's first poll victory in half a century, and distinguish Chile from a continent dominated by leftist governments.Analysts said he was the right's most moderate candidate and would keep Chile on a centrist course. The two-chamber congress is expected to remain divided.After a four-year term which saw copper and wine exports help to weather recession, President Michelle Bachelet has a 77% approval rating, but is constitutionally barred from seeking re-election.Frei, a civil engineer whose 1994-2000 administration was buffeted by economic problems, has put Bachelet's name and face on his campaign posters, but struggled to transfer her popularity. At 67, he represents the old guard in a country which seems to want change.The race was shaken up by Enr\u00edquez-Ominami, 36, a former film director and congressman who broke from the ruling coalition to run as an independent. Dubbed \"the rebel\", he promised to increase taxes on the rich and broached taboo subjects such as marijuana consumption, gay marriage and abortion.\"The big question is: What happens to Marco Enriquez-Ominami's votes?\" Fabian Pressacco, a political analyst who expects a tight race, told Reuters. \"How many of those votes will go to Frei? I think most of them will.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "Billionaire to face leftwing former leader in Chile's presidential runoff"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:05:15Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean folk singer V\u00edctor Jara, who became a symbol of opposition to the regime of Augusto Pinochet, was finally laid to rest in an emotional funeral in Santiago \u2013 36 years after he was tortured and murdered by the military government.Thousands of Chileans turned out to pay their respects to Jara, who rose from humble rural roots to become a renowned singer and theatre director in the early 1970s, when Chile witnessed a flourishing of radical ideas and the popular arts under Salvador Allende.Yesterday's funeral cortege was led by the singer's British widow, Joan. It was the second time she had buried her husband. In September 1973, a week after Pinochet led a coup against Allende, she took his lifeless body, riddled with machine-gun bullets, to Santiago's general cemetery and arranged a hasty, clandestine burial before fleeing into exile.The opportunity for a dignified funeral for Jara arose in June, when his corpse was exhumed in a bid to find out more about who killed him and how.A former army conscript, Jos\u00e9 Adolfo Paredes M\u00e1rquez, has been charged with Jara's murder as a result of the new inquiry. He denies involvement, but told investigators that an army officer known as \"El Loco\" played Russian roulette with Jara as he was held in Santiago's football stadium after the coup. The officer allegedly held a gun to the singer's head, spinning the cylinder and firing repeatedly, until eventually a single bullet blasted into the singer's brain. Paredes said soldiers were then ordered to finish Jara off by pumping more than 40 bullets into his body.Investigators are still trying to trace \"El Loco\" and another officer, known as \"El Pr\u00edncipe\" (The Prince), who, according to survivors, was particularly sadistic. The only person to have been convicted in relation to his death was a guard at the stadium. It was there that the singer was tortured and shot. His corpse was dumped outside the stadium and later taken to a mortuary for his widow to collect.The public funeral was welcomed by leading politicians in Chile, which is in the middle of a hard-fought election campaign. \"Finally, after 36 years, V\u00edctor can rest in peace,\" said Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, who herself was a victim of the Pinochet regime and spent years in exile.Bachelet joined thousands of Chileans who filed past Jara's coffin during a two-day wake for the singer. Many of those who attended had, like Joan Jara, lost loved ones at the hands of the military.\"This is my father,\" said Cecilia Gonz\u00e1lez, pointing to a black-and-white photograph pinned to her lapel. \"He was a doctor who gave safe housing to a priest in the days after the coup. The priest was discovered and shot dead by a Chilean soldier. They arrested my father and tortured him and he died of his injuries. They killed our relatives, just like they killed V\u00edctor Jara.\"Jara's coffin was draped in his signature black-and-red woollen poncho during the wake. Wreaths of red roses and carnations were placed around it and some of those who arrived to pay their respects brought guitars and played his songs.An activist in the Chilean Communist party for much of his adult life, Jara remains a hero for the left and for musicians, not just in Chile but throughout Latin America and beyond. The Clash and U2 are among the groups who have paid homage to him.His handsome face, with its strong jawline and mop of curly black hair, is still a familiar sight on posters in Chile, and his music remains popular.Many of his best-known songs, such as Te Recuerdo, Amanda (I Remember You, Amanda) and Herminda de la Victoria (Herminda from Victoria), are simple ballads chronicling the lives of Chile's poor and downtrodden, its factory workers and its farmers.Others, such as El Derecho de Vivir en Paz (The Right to Live in Peace), refer to the international events of Jara's age, such as the Vietnam War.Jara rose to prominence in the late 1960s as part of the Nueva Canci\u00f3n (New Song) movement, which sought to infuse music with social commentary. With songs such as Preguntas por Puerto Montt (Questions about Puerto Montt) \u2013 which remembered a notorious massacre of landless poor in southern Chile in 1969 \u2013 he helped pave the way for the election of Allende in 1970.Throughout the three tumultuous years of Allende's government, Jara remained loyal to the president and his ideas. The two men died within days of each other.The inquiry into who should be held finally responsible for his death goes on. \"We need to know,\" said Guillermo Tellier, leader of the Chilean Communist party. \"We know how V\u00edctor Jara died, but we don't know who ordered his murder.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Music"], "title": "Murdered Chilean folk singer Victor Jara laid to rest after 36 years"},{"date": "2009-12-11T12:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We know that General Augusto Pinochet, the largely unlamented military dictator of Chile, ordered the murder of Salvador Allende, his predecessor as president. Yet now it seems that he also commanded the death by poisoning of Eduardo Frei Montalva, Allende's immediate predecessor. Six people have been charged in Santiago this week with killing him, and topical piquancy has been given to the news by the fact that Frei's son, also Eduardo and also a former president, is a candidate in the first round of presidential elections this week.Such Shakespearean bloodletting is uncommon in Latin America, and Pinochet's capacity for regicide will now be added to his existing reputation as a cold-blooded killer. Might he not also, perhaps, have brought about the death in 1986 of Jorge Alessandri, Frei senior's predecessor, who unwittingly created the opportunity for Allende to become president by intervening in the election of 1970 and splitting the rightwing vote? Alessandri died in his bed in 1986, at the age of 90, with Pinochet still in power.Pinochet, who died three years ago, still has powerful supporters both in Chile and in Europe, but the firming-up of the frequently heard accusation that he was behind the unexplained death of Frei in 1982 may cause a yet more negative appraisal of his long 17-year period in power.Eduardo Frei Sr was president of Chile from 1964 to 1970, supported by both his own Christian Democrat party and by the United States. He was an exceptionally radical president, embarking on the nationalisation of the country's US-owned copper mines and the takeover of its large estates. These were measures that were extended during Allende's government, with Allende enjoying the benefits of the legislation initiated during the Frei era.Halfway through his period in power, Frei lost the support of the US government, which concluded that he was \"a weak reed\" in the struggle against the left. Fearing that Radomiro Tomic, Frei's Christian Democrat successor, would lose the presidential election of 1970 to Salvador Allende, the Americans switched their support to the right-wing candidate, ex-President Alessandri. It was an error, since, in a three-horse race, the socialist Allende was the winner.Frei was an initial supporter of the Pinochet coup in 1973 that put an end to Chile's socialist experiment, although he was not aware of the machinations of the military. Allende died by his own hand, but Pinochet had planned for him to be murdered. Frei moved rapidly into opposition to the coup when it became clear that Pinochet loathed the Christian Democrats almost as much as he hated the Socialists. The austere and uncorruptible Frei became a unifying figure within the growing ranks of the opposition to Pinochet, posing a clear and identifiable threat to the dictator's power. His early death was always regarded as suspicious, both by his family and the country at large, but it has taken many years of investigation to bring the apparent perpetrators to public attention.Eduardo Frei Jr benefited from his father's reputation and became the Chilean president in the 1990s, at the head of the so-called Concertaci\u00f3n of the Christian Democrats and the parties of the left that had once supported Allende. He is seeking re-election this week, to replace Michelle Bachelet, the existing Socialist president (though also a member of the Concertaci\u00f3n). At present, Frei is second in the opinion polls to Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, the rightwing candidate, although the news about his father's murder will surely improve his chances, specifically in a second round to be held in January.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Pinochet's other victim | Richard Gott"},{"date": "2009-12-08T21:51:18Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Six men have been arrested in Chile over the murder of the country's former president Eduardo Frei Montalva, whose death in 1982 has been one of the most enduring mysteries of the Pinochet regime.Three suspects were charged with murder and three others with being accomplices to murder.Frei Montalva died at the Santa Maria clinic in Santiago, where he was recuperating from a hernia operation. Judge Alejandro Madrid, who investigated the case for seven years, said yesterday that the former Chilean leader was poisoned to death as multiple doses of thallium and mustard gas were secretly mixed with medications and injected into the president's body.\"This was an action by the military intelligence of the dictator [Pinochet], with a clear and precise objective, the elimination of President Frei,\" said Alvaro Varela, a human rights lawyer working for the Frei family. \"Those charged today are not the only ones ... there are more and we are headed in their direction.\"Family members had suspected Frei was poisoned after being tipped off by former aides to General Pinochet. In his 2002 book, Imperfect Crime, Chilean journalist Jorge Molina profiled Eugenio Barrios, a chemist who worked for the Chilean secret police on a series of radical experiments including the production of anthrax, botulism and the nerve gas sarin. Barrios, who was murdered in Uruguay, is suspected of administering the poison to Frei.The arrests came ahead of Sunday's presidential election, in which Senator Eduardo Frei, son of the murdered president, is one of the leading candidates. \"There is a before and an after because never before has there been [in Chile] an attack taking the life of a president,\" the senator said yesterday.\"This shows that justice takes time, but it does finally arrive as it has in this case,\" The Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, said. \"This is good for our society.\"Those arrested included medical personnel and members of the Pinochet secret police known as the Dina.The doctors were charged as accomplices for their role in conducting an illegal autopsy, removing all organs from the body of Frei and stuffing his corpse with gauze.Frei, who ruled Chile as a progressive president from 1964-1970, initially supported the 1973 military coup that led to the death of the president at the time, Salvador Allende. But, after human rights crimes, including thousands of murders, Frei Montalva emerged in 1980 as a key figure in the growing opposition to the military government led by Augusto Pinochet.The murder of Frei in January 1982 was followed a month later by the assassination of Tucapel Jim\u00e9nez, a leading union organiser, as the Pinochet regime systematically eliminated leading figures in the democratic opposition.", "tags": ["Chile", "Augusto Pinochet", "World news"], "title": "Six arrested over murder of former Chilean president"},{"date": "2009-11-03T14:44:37Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Former conscripts in Chile have offered to reveal details of murders and other crimes sanctioned under Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship in a move that could lead to some of the men receiving pensions and immunity from prosecution in return.The ex-soldiers say they want to end almost four decades of silence and share harrowing secrets about abuses they committed and witnessed. Some want to unburden their conscience, others to obtain immunity from possible prosecution or gain pensions and healthcare.Hundreds gathered in front of the presidential palace in the capital, Santiago, at the weekend to seek official recognition that they too were victims of the regime.\"Perhaps today is the day when the moment has come for us to describe what we saw and how we suffered inside the military bases, the things that we witnessed and that we did,\" Fernando Mellado, who leads the Santiago chapter of the veterans' group the Former Soldiers of 1973, told Associated Press.Mellado said Chile needed to understand what it was like for teenagers drafted into a feared security force which, according to an official count, killed 3,186 people after a US-backed military coup toppled the leftist president Salvador Allende in 1973.The dead included 1,197 \"disappeared\", some of whom were dumped from helicopters into the sea or buried at clandestine locations. Less than 8% have been recovered and identified.\"The moment has come for former military draftees to tell our wives, our families, the politicians, the society, the country and the whole world about the brutalities they subjected us to. I believe the moment has come for us to speak, for our personal redemption,\" said Mellado.He said about a quarter of the 8,000 recruits of 1973 from Santiago were willing to talk, but so far authorities had not grasped the opportunity.Since Pinochet's death in 2006, Chile has cautiously addressed his dictatorship's painful and politically awkward legacy. Other South American countries, notably Argentina, have been relatively bolder in tackling the crimes of their own military juntas.Some of the former Chilean conscripts who gathered in front of the presidential palace gave grisly testimonies. One confessed to shooting an entire family. Another, now homeless and an alcoholic, said he was forced to drown a seven-year-old boy in a barrel of hardening plaster.Jose Paredes, who served at the Tejas Verdes torture centre, tearfully recounted that his mission was to stand guard and listen to the screams. \"They would end up destroyed, torn apart, their teeth and faces broken. There are things that I've always said I will take to the grave,\" he told Associated Press, before naming six officers who he said gave the orders.Hiram Villagra, a lawyer for families of the dead and disappeared, welcomed the offer of testimony. \"Clearly there is no desire from our part for these soldiers to carry the burden of guilt of the officers, who were the ones who made the decisions,\" he said.", "tags": ["Augusto Pinochet", "Chile", "Human rights", "Torture", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Ex-conscripts offer to reveal details of Pinochet regime murders"},{"date": "2009-12-13T13:16:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the heart of Santiago's shopping district, a giggling group of professional young women are comparing plastic dildos. Their laughter continues as they browse the sex toys and lubricant gels in the Solo Adultos sex shop. After lengthy discussion, they settle on some fluffy handcuffs and a pair of Penthouse bunny ears.\"We get lots of hen parties in here\", says Tatiana Martinez, the shop assistant, pointing to the female office workers as they head off towards a nearby nightclub. \"But plenty of women come with their husbands, too,\" she adds. \"Women are becoming a lot more open about sex these days. And a lot more demanding.\"Sex shops are a comparatively new arrival to the Chilean high street. Until 2001, pornographic films were banned. Only five years ago, so was divorce. Today, Latin America's most straight-laced country is beginning to relax a little. As it does so, the role of women and gender stereotyping are slowly beginning to change.The cultural shift is most noticeable among Chile's younger generations. Outside Cherry Bar in the coastal town of Valparaiso, a queue of teenagers straggles around the block. The girls are dressed in mini-skirts and crop tops, despite the cold sea breeze. Once inside, there's a decision to be made: hetero, bi or gay. Cherry boasts a floor for each. Many teens visit all three.\"There's more sexual experimentation among young girls these days. The new generation are much more liberal and liberated,\" says Erika Montecinos, editor of the lesbian magazine Breaking the Silence. Official statistics back her up. Five percent of girls today under 18 years old have had more than one sexual partner, more than double the number from a decade ago. The span between dating and sexual activity (seven and a half months) has also shortened by 13.9% every year over the last ten years.\"Girls no longer want to wait until marriage to start having sex. There are lots of reasons why. They face less parental control for one thing. And then there's the influence of television and the media\", explains Ximena Luengo, a sexual health expert at the University of Chile.It's not just the younger generation that are enjoying a belated sexual revolution. SYO, Chile's first and only swingers bar, counts middle-aged couples among the mainstay of its clientele. Most are married with children and conventional jobs.\"As women, Chilean society never prepares you to be honest about your sexual preferences. Now couples are adventuring together,\" observes Sandra, SYO's 37-year-old owner.Nor is it just in the bedroom where gender relations are undergoing a metamorphosis. Women are making their presence felt in the workplace thanks to an increase in flexible working practices and a battery of new anti-discrimination laws.\"The traditional idea of a man going out to work and the woman staying at home is changing. Women need to work and they want to work,\" explains Sonia Monta\u00f1o, a specialist in gender development at the UN-backed Economic Commission for Latin America.High levels of female education help. An employed woman in Chile is likely to have 11 and a half years of schooling. In Brazil, the average is nine. In the corporate world, Chilean women typically study one more year than their male counterparts. Women are increasingly confident that personal merit rather than private wealth or good connections will get them ahead, according to sociologist Teresa Vald\u00e9s. \"This development has to do with the empowerment of women today, with the belief that 'I will be the best,\" she adds.Chilean woman might not be burning their bras but they are certainly loosening the shoulder straps. So why the sudden change?Women's rights groups are almost unanimous in their response: the Bachelet factor. Chile's first-ever female president, 57-year-old Michelle Bachelet, is credited with pushing gender issues up the political agenda.On assuming power in March 2006, she appointed female ministers to half her cabinet. She also gave the national ministry for women a long-overdue budgetary boost. Her motives were not impersonal. A separated mother, she juggled bringing up three children while carving out a successful career in Chile's male-dominated medical profession.\"Given the quantity of women in power under this administration, we can no longer say we are excluded\", Laura Albornoz, Chile's women's minister.She is quick to reel off the achievements of Bachelet's administration; a more than fivefold increase in the number of free cr\u00e8ches, a best practice code on flexible working; occupational training for 36,000 female heads of household.\"Many of the seeds we are sowing now, we won't be able to harvest immediately\", Albornoz admits, \"But there's no stepping back now.\"\"No hay marcha atr\u00e1s\" (\"No step backwards\"). It's a phrase borrowed from her boss. Bachelet has another favourite saying. Young girls used to dream of growing up to be nurses or teachers, it runs. Now they aspire to becoming president.With elections today and Bachelet constitutionally unable to stand for another four-year term, gender rights advocates are turning their minds to her legacy. \"The very fact of her presidency signifies an important cultural shift \u2026 It's helped foster a change in what women think they can do,\" says Maria Elena Valenzuela, a specialist on gender issues at the International Labout Organisation.The argument is laced with a dose of realism and a dozen provisos. Women's organisations are forced to admit that Chile in many ways remains a profoundly unequal, chauvinist society. Attitudes towards Bachelet herself prove that. In the street, everyday Chileans refer to her as La Gordis (\"the Fat Woman\"). \"Baywatch Babe\" ran one sarcastic headline in reference to recent photos of her in a swimsuit.Assessments of her political performance reflect similar gender biases. Consensus-building, listening, warm, inclusive \u2013 these are adjectives associated with Bachelet's political style. Rather than signs of progressive leadership, Chileans interpret them as evidence of dillydallying. \"She makes commissions,\" her opponents like to say, \"not decisions.\"The criticism is evidence of Chile's \"political immaturity\", according to Soledad Teixido, chief executive of the non-profit organisation ProHumana. She blames the country's history of autocratic, military rulers. Chile's last military government ended as recently as 1990, when Augusto Pinochet handed over power after 17 years.\"Our country isn't ready for a female style of leadership. She's not cuddly as the maternal stereotype demands, nor does she rule with a heavy hand. Ridiculous though it is, that looks bad on all of us,\" Teixido laments.Bachelet's strong performance during the global recession has done much to turn around the early criticism of her governing style. She leaves office with record approval ratings of around 80%. Two years ago, it dropped to below 40%.Full gender parity in Chile remains a long way off. Less than two in five women (38.5%) work, the lowest percentage in the continent. Women earn on average four-fifths (79%) that of male employees. Boardrooms and unions remain Clubes de Toby, the Chilean term for men-only institutions. Political representation is little better. Women number less than one in eight (13%) parliamentarians. In neighbouring Argentina, the figure is three times higher. Even Bachelet's 50-50 cabinet is no longer a paradigm of gender balance after a number of high-profile reshuffles.Recent opportunities to strike a fresh blow for the female cause have also come and gone. Moves to make the morning-after pill freely available, for example, were quashed by the (all-male) constitutional court. Efforts to establish a mandatory quota of women candidates in political parties have also failed to materialise.Women's groups valiantly press on. They take their victories where they can: contraceptive use being officially sanctioned in the fight against HIV/AIDS (until recently, government advice led on monogamy and pre-marital chastity); a high-profile campaign against domestic violence; a basic pension for housewives.At their most optimistic, gender experts see Chile moving towards a softer \"neo-machista\" society. Now men cook, albeit only at weekends or for dinner parties. No longer is it de moda for husbands to boast about hitting their wives or having affairs. In politically correct Chile, even the organisers of the local Miss World contest claim to be \"feminists\".Yet a change of language shouldn't be mistaken for a change of opinion. \"Culturally, we're not seen as subjects, but as objects,\" points out Sonia Montecino, the first female director of Chile's National Archive.Even as objects, women don't have it easy. In Chile, the religious and secular are fighting it out for primacy. On the one hand, the Catholic church espouses conservative virtues of piety, motherhood and dutiful sacrifice. On the other, the daily tabloids present women as silicon-enhanced, hyper-sexualised bonbones (\"bimbos\").The contradiction is lodged deep within the male psyche. Office workers think nothing of popping out for their morning latte to one of Santiago's myriad caf\u00e9 con piernas, a mix between Starbucks and Stringfellows. Fathers will gift breast implants to their teenage daughters, but expect them to remain virgins until marriage.But does the fault lie entirely with Chile's chauvinist men? \"The M of machismo begins with the M of mother,\" runs a popular Chilean saying. Feminists admit women can also be responsible for perpetuating negative stereotypes. \"Women like it that men are machista. It gives them security. People don't like things changing too quickly,\" says Maria de los Angeles, director of Chile's Elite model agency.Women are also put off building a career for fear of becoming \"masculinised\". If there's a choice to be made between staying late in the office or eating dinner with their children, they will invariably opt for the latter, explains Maria Marcet, deputy manager for social responsibility at Spanish-owned bank Santander. \"To an extent, they [make] their own glass ceiling.\"Talk of women's rights remains predominantly an urban, middle-class preoccupation. Chile's rural and indigenous communities treat feminist ideas with suspicion. Fifty-nine-year old Juana Millavil, a Mapuche Indian from a reservation near Temuco in southern Chile, has never gone on holiday. Without complaint, she rises at dawn to a full day of household chores.\"It's not good to be too feminist. Culturally, the man is the head of the family and deserves respect,\" she says, stirring a pot of stew for her husband's lunch.She has an opinion on Santiago's hen parties, too: \"Many women are taking advantage of their recent liberation. They go out and cheat on their husbands.\" At Solo Adultos, Tatiana dismisses such talk as belonging to the \"old Chile\". All the same, she has yet to tell her two children where she works. She prefers for their schoolmates not to know. Or their mothers.Oliver Balch is author of Viva South America!, published by Faber & Faber. ", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Gender", "Feminism", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Michelle Bachelet: the cultural legacy of Chile's first female president"},{"date": "2009-11-16T17:50:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Majestic Wine said today that drinkers were switching to more affordable \"New World\" wines and Prosecco to beat the credit crunch.Britain's largest wine warehouse chain said consumers were looking for \"value for money\" with bottles from New Zealand, South Africa and Chile selling better than those from the eurozone. Sales of bottles of wine in the \u00a320 plus price bracket - Majestic's average selling price is \u00a36.41 - were up 14.4% on the year as Britons sought to create a restaurant-style dining experience at home, said chief executive Steve Lewis.His comments came as Majestic reported a 9% rise in first half profits to \u00a36.1m. Like-for-like sales were up 5.4% in the 26 weeks to 28 September. He said Majestic expected to pick up market share from First Quench Retailing, the owner of Threshers and Wine Rack which fell into administration earlier this month, but does not want to buy any of its stores as it was \"not interested\" in high street locations.Off-licences have come under severe pressure in recent years due to the increasing dominance of supermarkets which account for 70% of the off-trade. First Quench had a 9% market share whereas Majestic has around 3%. Its administrators have already announced plans to close a third of the group's 1,200 stores. \"The removal of capacity from the high street has to have a beneficial effect for us,\" said Lewis. The retailer has 153 warehouse-style stores and sees scope to add another 100 sites. Shares in Majestic, which have risen 78% over the last year, closed up 3.7% at 254p.After a year-long trial, Majestic changed its trading strategy this autumn, lowering the minimum customer purchase requirement from 12 to six bottles in a bid to make the chain more accessible to current and new customers. When the threshold was set at a dozen Lewis said many customers had only shopped once a year, adding: \"Initial indications following the full rollout are encouraging.\"Majestic hopes higher sales to private individuals, which were up 8.9% in period, will offset weak demand from its business customers. Sales at its corporate business, which accounts for around a fifth of turnover, were down nearly 7%. \"Every finance director in every company across the land has put a red line through corporate entertaining and gifting,\" said Lewis. \"Whereas private customers, if you've got a compelling proposition, are still prepared to spend their own money.\"Alcohol has become a battleground of the big supermarkets chains over the Christmas sales period, with wines and spirits often used as loss leaders to lure shoppers into store.", "tags": ["Majestic Wine", "Food & drink industry", "Business"], "title": "New World and costlier wines do brisk trade for Majestic"},{"date": "2009-12-14T01:10:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A conservative businessman won most votes in Chile's presidential election yesterday, making him favourite to win a run-off and end nearly two decades of leftwing rule.Preliminary results gave the billionaire Sebastian Pinera 44% of the vote, far ahead of his nearest rival but not enough to clinch a first-round victory. Pinera, who owns stakes in an airline and a media firm, promised to rejuvenate the economy but not radically shift Chile to the right. \"Better times are coming to Chile,\" he said.Pinera will square off on 17 January against Eduardo Frei, a former president who ran on the ticket of the ruling coalition, Concertaci\u00f3n, which has been in power since the end of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship in 1990. Frei, who came second with 31%, will try to rally support from voters who backed two other leftwing candidates: Marco Enriquez-Ominami took 19% and Jorge Arrate took 6%.The country of 17 million people is a stable and prosperous Latin America success story, but Pinera tapped a perception that the ruling coalition was jaded. \"Chile needs a true renaissance which frees us from this state of lethargy,\" he wrote in a Sunday newspaper column.If Pinera prevails next month it would be the right's first poll victory in half a century, and distinguish Chile from a continent dominated by leftist governments.Analysts said he was the right's most moderate candidate and would keep Chile on a centrist course. The two-chamber congress is expected to remain divided.After a four-year term which saw copper and wine exports help to weather recession, President Michelle Bachelet has a 77% approval rating, but is constitutionally barred from seeking re-election.Frei, a civil engineer whose 1994-2000 administration was buffeted by economic problems, has put Bachelet's name and face on his campaign posters, but struggled to transfer her popularity. At 67, he represents the old guard in a country which seems to want change.The race was shaken up by Enr\u00edquez-Ominami, 36, a former film director and congressman who broke from the ruling coalition to run as an independent. Dubbed \"the rebel\", he promised to increase taxes on the rich and broached taboo subjects such as marijuana consumption, gay marriage and abortion.\"The big question is: What happens to Marco Enriquez-Ominami's votes?\" Fabian Pressacco, a political analyst who expects a tight race, told Reuters. \"How many of those votes will go to Frei? I think most of them will.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "Billionaire to face leftwing former leader in Chile's presidential runoff"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:05:15Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean folk singer V\u00edctor Jara, who became a symbol of opposition to the regime of Augusto Pinochet, was finally laid to rest in an emotional funeral in Santiago \u2013 36 years after he was tortured and murdered by the military government.Thousands of Chileans turned out to pay their respects to Jara, who rose from humble rural roots to become a renowned singer and theatre director in the early 1970s, when Chile witnessed a flourishing of radical ideas and the popular arts under Salvador Allende.Yesterday's funeral cortege was led by the singer's British widow, Joan. It was the second time she had buried her husband. In September 1973, a week after Pinochet led a coup against Allende, she took his lifeless body, riddled with machine-gun bullets, to Santiago's general cemetery and arranged a hasty, clandestine burial before fleeing into exile.The opportunity for a dignified funeral for Jara arose in June, when his corpse was exhumed in a bid to find out more about who killed him and how.A former army conscript, Jos\u00e9 Adolfo Paredes M\u00e1rquez, has been charged with Jara's murder as a result of the new inquiry. He denies involvement, but told investigators that an army officer known as \"El Loco\" played Russian roulette with Jara as he was held in Santiago's football stadium after the coup. The officer allegedly held a gun to the singer's head, spinning the cylinder and firing repeatedly, until eventually a single bullet blasted into the singer's brain. Paredes said soldiers were then ordered to finish Jara off by pumping more than 40 bullets into his body.Investigators are still trying to trace \"El Loco\" and another officer, known as \"El Pr\u00edncipe\" (The Prince), who, according to survivors, was particularly sadistic. The only person to have been convicted in relation to his death was a guard at the stadium. It was there that the singer was tortured and shot. His corpse was dumped outside the stadium and later taken to a mortuary for his widow to collect.The public funeral was welcomed by leading politicians in Chile, which is in the middle of a hard-fought election campaign. \"Finally, after 36 years, V\u00edctor can rest in peace,\" said Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, who herself was a victim of the Pinochet regime and spent years in exile.Bachelet joined thousands of Chileans who filed past Jara's coffin during a two-day wake for the singer. Many of those who attended had, like Joan Jara, lost loved ones at the hands of the military.\"This is my father,\" said Cecilia Gonz\u00e1lez, pointing to a black-and-white photograph pinned to her lapel. \"He was a doctor who gave safe housing to a priest in the days after the coup. The priest was discovered and shot dead by a Chilean soldier. They arrested my father and tortured him and he died of his injuries. They killed our relatives, just like they killed V\u00edctor Jara.\"Jara's coffin was draped in his signature black-and-red woollen poncho during the wake. Wreaths of red roses and carnations were placed around it and some of those who arrived to pay their respects brought guitars and played his songs.An activist in the Chilean Communist party for much of his adult life, Jara remains a hero for the left and for musicians, not just in Chile but throughout Latin America and beyond. The Clash and U2 are among the groups who have paid homage to him.His handsome face, with its strong jawline and mop of curly black hair, is still a familiar sight on posters in Chile, and his music remains popular.Many of his best-known songs, such as Te Recuerdo, Amanda (I Remember You, Amanda) and Herminda de la Victoria (Herminda from Victoria), are simple ballads chronicling the lives of Chile's poor and downtrodden, its factory workers and its farmers.Others, such as El Derecho de Vivir en Paz (The Right to Live in Peace), refer to the international events of Jara's age, such as the Vietnam War.Jara rose to prominence in the late 1960s as part of the Nueva Canci\u00f3n (New Song) movement, which sought to infuse music with social commentary. With songs such as Preguntas por Puerto Montt (Questions about Puerto Montt) \u2013 which remembered a notorious massacre of landless poor in southern Chile in 1969 \u2013 he helped pave the way for the election of Allende in 1970.Throughout the three tumultuous years of Allende's government, Jara remained loyal to the president and his ideas. The two men died within days of each other.The inquiry into who should be held finally responsible for his death goes on. \"We need to know,\" said Guillermo Tellier, leader of the Chilean Communist party. \"We know how V\u00edctor Jara died, but we don't know who ordered his murder.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Music"], "title": "Murdered Chilean folk singer Victor Jara laid to rest after 36 years"},{"date": "2009-12-11T12:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We know that General Augusto Pinochet, the largely unlamented military dictator of Chile, ordered the murder of Salvador Allende, his predecessor as president. Yet now it seems that he also commanded the death by poisoning of Eduardo Frei Montalva, Allende's immediate predecessor. Six people have been charged in Santiago this week with killing him, and topical piquancy has been given to the news by the fact that Frei's son, also Eduardo and also a former president, is a candidate in the first round of presidential elections this week.Such Shakespearean bloodletting is uncommon in Latin America, and Pinochet's capacity for regicide will now be added to his existing reputation as a cold-blooded killer. Might he not also, perhaps, have brought about the death in 1986 of Jorge Alessandri, Frei senior's predecessor, who unwittingly created the opportunity for Allende to become president by intervening in the election of 1970 and splitting the rightwing vote? Alessandri died in his bed in 1986, at the age of 90, with Pinochet still in power.Pinochet, who died three years ago, still has powerful supporters both in Chile and in Europe, but the firming-up of the frequently heard accusation that he was behind the unexplained death of Frei in 1982 may cause a yet more negative appraisal of his long 17-year period in power.Eduardo Frei Sr was president of Chile from 1964 to 1970, supported by both his own Christian Democrat party and by the United States. He was an exceptionally radical president, embarking on the nationalisation of the country's US-owned copper mines and the takeover of its large estates. These were measures that were extended during Allende's government, with Allende enjoying the benefits of the legislation initiated during the Frei era.Halfway through his period in power, Frei lost the support of the US government, which concluded that he was \"a weak reed\" in the struggle against the left. Fearing that Radomiro Tomic, Frei's Christian Democrat successor, would lose the presidential election of 1970 to Salvador Allende, the Americans switched their support to the right-wing candidate, ex-President Alessandri. It was an error, since, in a three-horse race, the socialist Allende was the winner.Frei was an initial supporter of the Pinochet coup in 1973 that put an end to Chile's socialist experiment, although he was not aware of the machinations of the military. Allende died by his own hand, but Pinochet had planned for him to be murdered. Frei moved rapidly into opposition to the coup when it became clear that Pinochet loathed the Christian Democrats almost as much as he hated the Socialists. The austere and uncorruptible Frei became a unifying figure within the growing ranks of the opposition to Pinochet, posing a clear and identifiable threat to the dictator's power. His early death was always regarded as suspicious, both by his family and the country at large, but it has taken many years of investigation to bring the apparent perpetrators to public attention.Eduardo Frei Jr benefited from his father's reputation and became the Chilean president in the 1990s, at the head of the so-called Concertaci\u00f3n of the Christian Democrats and the parties of the left that had once supported Allende. He is seeking re-election this week, to replace Michelle Bachelet, the existing Socialist president (though also a member of the Concertaci\u00f3n). At present, Frei is second in the opinion polls to Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, the rightwing candidate, although the news about his father's murder will surely improve his chances, specifically in a second round to be held in January.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Pinochet's other victim | Richard Gott"},{"date": "2009-12-08T21:51:18Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Six men have been arrested in Chile over the murder of the country's former president Eduardo Frei Montalva, whose death in 1982 has been one of the most enduring mysteries of the Pinochet regime.Three suspects were charged with murder and three others with being accomplices to murder.Frei Montalva died at the Santa Maria clinic in Santiago, where he was recuperating from a hernia operation. Judge Alejandro Madrid, who investigated the case for seven years, said yesterday that the former Chilean leader was poisoned to death as multiple doses of thallium and mustard gas were secretly mixed with medications and injected into the president's body.\"This was an action by the military intelligence of the dictator [Pinochet], with a clear and precise objective, the elimination of President Frei,\" said Alvaro Varela, a human rights lawyer working for the Frei family. \"Those charged today are not the only ones ... there are more and we are headed in their direction.\"Family members had suspected Frei was poisoned after being tipped off by former aides to General Pinochet. In his 2002 book, Imperfect Crime, Chilean journalist Jorge Molina profiled Eugenio Barrios, a chemist who worked for the Chilean secret police on a series of radical experiments including the production of anthrax, botulism and the nerve gas sarin. Barrios, who was murdered in Uruguay, is suspected of administering the poison to Frei.The arrests came ahead of Sunday's presidential election, in which Senator Eduardo Frei, son of the murdered president, is one of the leading candidates. \"There is a before and an after because never before has there been [in Chile] an attack taking the life of a president,\" the senator said yesterday.\"This shows that justice takes time, but it does finally arrive as it has in this case,\" The Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, said. \"This is good for our society.\"Those arrested included medical personnel and members of the Pinochet secret police known as the Dina.The doctors were charged as accomplices for their role in conducting an illegal autopsy, removing all organs from the body of Frei and stuffing his corpse with gauze.Frei, who ruled Chile as a progressive president from 1964-1970, initially supported the 1973 military coup that led to the death of the president at the time, Salvador Allende. But, after human rights crimes, including thousands of murders, Frei Montalva emerged in 1980 as a key figure in the growing opposition to the military government led by Augusto Pinochet.The murder of Frei in January 1982 was followed a month later by the assassination of Tucapel Jim\u00e9nez, a leading union organiser, as the Pinochet regime systematically eliminated leading figures in the democratic opposition.", "tags": ["Chile", "Augusto Pinochet", "World news"], "title": "Six arrested over murder of former Chilean president"},{"date": "2009-11-03T14:44:37Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Former conscripts in Chile have offered to reveal details of murders and other crimes sanctioned under Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship in a move that could lead to some of the men receiving pensions and immunity from prosecution in return.The ex-soldiers say they want to end almost four decades of silence and share harrowing secrets about abuses they committed and witnessed. Some want to unburden their conscience, others to obtain immunity from possible prosecution or gain pensions and healthcare.Hundreds gathered in front of the presidential palace in the capital, Santiago, at the weekend to seek official recognition that they too were victims of the regime.\"Perhaps today is the day when the moment has come for us to describe what we saw and how we suffered inside the military bases, the things that we witnessed and that we did,\" Fernando Mellado, who leads the Santiago chapter of the veterans' group the Former Soldiers of 1973, told Associated Press.Mellado said Chile needed to understand what it was like for teenagers drafted into a feared security force which, according to an official count, killed 3,186 people after a US-backed military coup toppled the leftist president Salvador Allende in 1973.The dead included 1,197 \"disappeared\", some of whom were dumped from helicopters into the sea or buried at clandestine locations. Less than 8% have been recovered and identified.\"The moment has come for former military draftees to tell our wives, our families, the politicians, the society, the country and the whole world about the brutalities they subjected us to. I believe the moment has come for us to speak, for our personal redemption,\" said Mellado.He said about a quarter of the 8,000 recruits of 1973 from Santiago were willing to talk, but so far authorities had not grasped the opportunity.Since Pinochet's death in 2006, Chile has cautiously addressed his dictatorship's painful and politically awkward legacy. Other South American countries, notably Argentina, have been relatively bolder in tackling the crimes of their own military juntas.Some of the former Chilean conscripts who gathered in front of the presidential palace gave grisly testimonies. One confessed to shooting an entire family. Another, now homeless and an alcoholic, said he was forced to drown a seven-year-old boy in a barrel of hardening plaster.Jose Paredes, who served at the Tejas Verdes torture centre, tearfully recounted that his mission was to stand guard and listen to the screams. \"They would end up destroyed, torn apart, their teeth and faces broken. There are things that I've always said I will take to the grave,\" he told Associated Press, before naming six officers who he said gave the orders.Hiram Villagra, a lawyer for families of the dead and disappeared, welcomed the offer of testimony. \"Clearly there is no desire from our part for these soldiers to carry the burden of guilt of the officers, who were the ones who made the decisions,\" he said.", "tags": ["Augusto Pinochet", "Chile", "Human rights", "Torture", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Ex-conscripts offer to reveal details of Pinochet regime murders"},{"date": "2009-12-13T18:04:20Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Rodrigo Garc\u00eda Pinochet, a grandson of Augusto Pinochet, attempted to revive the family's political dynasty by running for congress today.Images of the late dictator were used in the 33-year-old economist's campaign in one of Santiago's richest and most conservative districts. The general's widow, Luc\u00eda Hiriart, said her husband would have been proud of his favourite grandson.Many conservative voters still revere the surname but the main centre-right alliance snubbed him as an embarrassing reminder of a fraught past. He ran as an independent.The Spanish judge Baltasar Garz\u00f3n complicated the campaign by threatening to seize up to $100m from Banco de Chile as part of an investigation into Pinochet family funds.Rodrigo Pinochet was the last relative to see the dictator alive, in December 2006 as the 91-year-old general lay dying in his hospital bed. He was also the only relative to accompany his grandfather on the ill-fated flight to London in 1998 that led to the dictator's arrest and protracted extradition case.", "tags": ["Augusto Pinochet", "Chile", "World news"], "title": "A Pinochet with hopes of reviving a political dynasty"},{"date": "2009-12-13T13:16:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the heart of Santiago's shopping district, a giggling group of professional young women are comparing plastic dildos. Their laughter continues as they browse the sex toys and lubricant gels in the Solo Adultos sex shop. After lengthy discussion, they settle on some fluffy handcuffs and a pair of Penthouse bunny ears.\"We get lots of hen parties in here\", says Tatiana Martinez, the shop assistant, pointing to the female office workers as they head off towards a nearby nightclub. \"But plenty of women come with their husbands, too,\" she adds. \"Women are becoming a lot more open about sex these days. And a lot more demanding.\"Sex shops are a comparatively new arrival to the Chilean high street. Until 2001, pornographic films were banned. Only five years ago, so was divorce. Today, Latin America's most straight-laced country is beginning to relax a little. As it does so, the role of women and gender stereotyping are slowly beginning to change.The cultural shift is most noticeable among Chile's younger generations. Outside Cherry Bar in the coastal town of Valparaiso, a queue of teenagers straggles around the block. The girls are dressed in mini-skirts and crop tops, despite the cold sea breeze. Once inside, there's a decision to be made: hetero, bi or gay. Cherry boasts a floor for each. Many teens visit all three.\"There's more sexual experimentation among young girls these days. The new generation are much more liberal and liberated,\" says Erika Montecinos, editor of the lesbian magazine Breaking the Silence. Official statistics back her up. Five percent of girls today under 18 years old have had more than one sexual partner, more than double the number from a decade ago. The span between dating and sexual activity (seven and a half months) has also shortened by 13.9% every year over the last ten years.\"Girls no longer want to wait until marriage to start having sex. There are lots of reasons why. They face less parental control for one thing. And then there's the influence of television and the media\", explains Ximena Luengo, a sexual health expert at the University of Chile.It's not just the younger generation that are enjoying a belated sexual revolution. SYO, Chile's first and only swingers bar, counts middle-aged couples among the mainstay of its clientele. Most are married with children and conventional jobs.\"As women, Chilean society never prepares you to be honest about your sexual preferences. Now couples are adventuring together,\" observes Sandra, SYO's 37-year-old owner.Nor is it just in the bedroom where gender relations are undergoing a metamorphosis. Women are making their presence felt in the workplace thanks to an increase in flexible working practices and a battery of new anti-discrimination laws.\"The traditional idea of a man going out to work and the woman staying at home is changing. Women need to work and they want to work,\" explains Sonia Monta\u00f1o, a specialist in gender development at the UN-backed Economic Commission for Latin America.High levels of female education help. An employed woman in Chile is likely to have 11 and a half years of schooling. In Brazil, the average is nine. In the corporate world, Chilean women typically study one more year than their male counterparts. Women are increasingly confident that personal merit rather than private wealth or good connections will get them ahead, according to sociologist Teresa Vald\u00e9s. \"This development has to do with the empowerment of women today, with the belief that 'I will be the best,\" she adds.Chilean woman might not be burning their bras but they are certainly loosening the shoulder straps. So why the sudden change?Women's rights groups are almost unanimous in their response: the Bachelet factor. Chile's first-ever female president, 57-year-old Michelle Bachelet, is credited with pushing gender issues up the political agenda.On assuming power in March 2006, she appointed female ministers to half her cabinet. She also gave the national ministry for women a long-overdue budgetary boost. Her motives were not impersonal. A separated mother, she juggled bringing up three children while carving out a successful career in Chile's male-dominated medical profession.\"Given the quantity of women in power under this administration, we can no longer say we are excluded\", Laura Albornoz, Chile's women's minister.She is quick to reel off the achievements of Bachelet's administration; a more than fivefold increase in the number of free cr\u00e8ches, a best practice code on flexible working; occupational training for 36,000 female heads of household.\"Many of the seeds we are sowing now, we won't be able to harvest immediately\", Albornoz admits, \"But there's no stepping back now.\"\"No hay marcha atr\u00e1s\" (\"No step backwards\"). It's a phrase borrowed from her boss. Bachelet has another favourite saying. Young girls used to dream of growing up to be nurses or teachers, it runs. Now they aspire to becoming president.With elections today and Bachelet constitutionally unable to stand for another four-year term, gender rights advocates are turning their minds to her legacy. \"The very fact of her presidency signifies an important cultural shift \u2026 It's helped foster a change in what women think they can do,\" says Maria Elena Valenzuela, a specialist on gender issues at the International Labout Organisation.The argument is laced with a dose of realism and a dozen provisos. Women's organisations are forced to admit that Chile in many ways remains a profoundly unequal, chauvinist society. Attitudes towards Bachelet herself prove that. In the street, everyday Chileans refer to her as La Gordis (\"the Fat Woman\"). \"Baywatch Babe\" ran one sarcastic headline in reference to recent photos of her in a swimsuit.Assessments of her political performance reflect similar gender biases. Consensus-building, listening, warm, inclusive \u2013 these are adjectives associated with Bachelet's political style. Rather than signs of progressive leadership, Chileans interpret them as evidence of dillydallying. \"She makes commissions,\" her opponents like to say, \"not decisions.\"The criticism is evidence of Chile's \"political immaturity\", according to Soledad Teixido, chief executive of the non-profit organisation ProHumana. She blames the country's history of autocratic, military rulers. Chile's last military government ended as recently as 1990, when Augusto Pinochet handed over power after 17 years.\"Our country isn't ready for a female style of leadership. She's not cuddly as the maternal stereotype demands, nor does she rule with a heavy hand. Ridiculous though it is, that looks bad on all of us,\" Teixido laments.Bachelet's strong performance during the global recession has done much to turn around the early criticism of her governing style. She leaves office with record approval ratings of around 80%. Two years ago, it dropped to below 40%.Full gender parity in Chile remains a long way off. Less than two in five women (38.5%) work, the lowest percentage in the continent. Women earn on average four-fifths (79%) that of male employees. Boardrooms and unions remain Clubes de Toby, the Chilean term for men-only institutions. Political representation is little better. Women number less than one in eight (13%) parliamentarians. In neighbouring Argentina, the figure is three times higher. Even Bachelet's 50-50 cabinet is no longer a paradigm of gender balance after a number of high-profile reshuffles.Recent opportunities to strike a fresh blow for the female cause have also come and gone. Moves to make the morning-after pill freely available, for example, were quashed by the (all-male) constitutional court. Efforts to establish a mandatory quota of women candidates in political parties have also failed to materialise.Women's groups valiantly press on. They take their victories where they can: contraceptive use being officially sanctioned in the fight against HIV/AIDS (until recently, government advice led on monogamy and pre-marital chastity); a high-profile campaign against domestic violence; a basic pension for housewives.At their most optimistic, gender experts see Chile moving towards a softer \"neo-machista\" society. Now men cook, albeit only at weekends or for dinner parties. No longer is it de moda for husbands to boast about hitting their wives or having affairs. In politically correct Chile, even the organisers of the local Miss World contest claim to be \"feminists\".Yet a change of language shouldn't be mistaken for a change of opinion. \"Culturally, we're not seen as subjects, but as objects,\" points out Sonia Montecino, the first female director of Chile's National Archive.Even as objects, women don't have it easy. In Chile, the religious and secular are fighting it out for primacy. On the one hand, the Catholic church espouses conservative virtues of piety, motherhood and dutiful sacrifice. On the other, the daily tabloids present women as silicon-enhanced, hyper-sexualised bonbones (\"bimbos\").The contradiction is lodged deep within the male psyche. Office workers think nothing of popping out for their morning latte to one of Santiago's myriad caf\u00e9 con piernas, a mix between Starbucks and Stringfellows. Fathers will gift breast implants to their teenage daughters, but expect them to remain virgins until marriage.But does the fault lie entirely with Chile's chauvinist men? \"The M of machismo begins with the M of mother,\" runs a popular Chilean saying. Feminists admit women can also be responsible for perpetuating negative stereotypes. \"Women like it that men are machista. It gives them security. People don't like things changing too quickly,\" says Maria de los Angeles, director of Chile's Elite model agency.Women are also put off building a career for fear of becoming \"masculinised\". If there's a choice to be made between staying late in the office or eating dinner with their children, they will invariably opt for the latter, explains Maria Marcet, deputy manager for social responsibility at Spanish-owned bank Santander. \"To an extent, they [make] their own glass ceiling.\"Talk of women's rights remains predominantly an urban, middle-class preoccupation. Chile's rural and indigenous communities treat feminist ideas with suspicion. Fifty-nine-year old Juana Millavil, a Mapuche Indian from a reservation near Temuco in southern Chile, has never gone on holiday. Without complaint, she rises at dawn to a full day of household chores.\"It's not good to be too feminist. Culturally, the man is the head of the family and deserves respect,\" she says, stirring a pot of stew for her husband's lunch.She has an opinion on Santiago's hen parties, too: \"Many women are taking advantage of their recent liberation. They go out and cheat on their husbands.\" At Solo Adultos, Tatiana dismisses such talk as belonging to the \"old Chile\". All the same, she has yet to tell her two children where she works. She prefers for their schoolmates not to know. Or their mothers.Oliver Balch is author of Viva South America!, published by Faber & Faber. ", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Gender", "Feminism", "Michelle Bachelet"], "title": "Michelle Bachelet: the cultural legacy of Chile's first female president"},{"date": "2009-11-16T17:50:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Majestic Wine said today that drinkers were switching to more affordable \"New World\" wines and Prosecco to beat the credit crunch.Britain's largest wine warehouse chain said consumers were looking for \"value for money\" with bottles from New Zealand, South Africa and Chile selling better than those from the eurozone. Sales of bottles of wine in the \u00a320 plus price bracket - Majestic's average selling price is \u00a36.41 - were up 14.4% on the year as Britons sought to create a restaurant-style dining experience at home, said chief executive Steve Lewis.His comments came as Majestic reported a 9% rise in first half profits to \u00a36.1m. Like-for-like sales were up 5.4% in the 26 weeks to 28 September. He said Majestic expected to pick up market share from First Quench Retailing, the owner of Threshers and Wine Rack which fell into administration earlier this month, but does not want to buy any of its stores as it was \"not interested\" in high street locations.Off-licences have come under severe pressure in recent years due to the increasing dominance of supermarkets which account for 70% of the off-trade. First Quench had a 9% market share whereas Majestic has around 3%. Its administrators have already announced plans to close a third of the group's 1,200 stores. \"The removal of capacity from the high street has to have a beneficial effect for us,\" said Lewis. The retailer has 153 warehouse-style stores and sees scope to add another 100 sites. Shares in Majestic, which have risen 78% over the last year, closed up 3.7% at 254p.After a year-long trial, Majestic changed its trading strategy this autumn, lowering the minimum customer purchase requirement from 12 to six bottles in a bid to make the chain more accessible to current and new customers. When the threshold was set at a dozen Lewis said many customers had only shopped once a year, adding: \"Initial indications following the full rollout are encouraging.\"Majestic hopes higher sales to private individuals, which were up 8.9% in period, will offset weak demand from its business customers. Sales at its corporate business, which accounts for around a fifth of turnover, were down nearly 7%. \"Every finance director in every company across the land has put a red line through corporate entertaining and gifting,\" said Lewis. \"Whereas private customers, if you've got a compelling proposition, are still prepared to spend their own money.\"Alcohol has become a battleground of the big supermarkets chains over the Christmas sales period, with wines and spirits often used as loss leaders to lure shoppers into store.", "tags": ["Majestic Wine", "Food & drink industry", "Business"], "title": "New World and costlier wines do brisk trade for Majestic"},{"date": "2009-12-14T01:10:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A conservative businessman won most votes in Chile's presidential election yesterday, making him favourite to win a run-off and end nearly two decades of leftwing rule.Preliminary results gave the billionaire Sebastian Pinera 44% of the vote, far ahead of his nearest rival but not enough to clinch a first-round victory. Pinera, who owns stakes in an airline and a media firm, promised to rejuvenate the economy but not radically shift Chile to the right. \"Better times are coming to Chile,\" he said.Pinera will square off on 17 January against Eduardo Frei, a former president who ran on the ticket of the ruling coalition, Concertaci\u00f3n, which has been in power since the end of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship in 1990. Frei, who came second with 31%, will try to rally support from voters who backed two other leftwing candidates: Marco Enriquez-Ominami took 19% and Jorge Arrate took 6%.The country of 17 million people is a stable and prosperous Latin America success story, but Pinera tapped a perception that the ruling coalition was jaded. \"Chile needs a true renaissance which frees us from this state of lethargy,\" he wrote in a Sunday newspaper column.If Pinera prevails next month it would be the right's first poll victory in half a century, and distinguish Chile from a continent dominated by leftist governments.Analysts said he was the right's most moderate candidate and would keep Chile on a centrist course. The two-chamber congress is expected to remain divided.After a four-year term which saw copper and wine exports help to weather recession, President Michelle Bachelet has a 77% approval rating, but is constitutionally barred from seeking re-election.Frei, a civil engineer whose 1994-2000 administration was buffeted by economic problems, has put Bachelet's name and face on his campaign posters, but struggled to transfer her popularity. At 67, he represents the old guard in a country which seems to want change.The race was shaken up by Enr\u00edquez-Ominami, 36, a former film director and congressman who broke from the ruling coalition to run as an independent. Dubbed \"the rebel\", he promised to increase taxes on the rich and broached taboo subjects such as marijuana consumption, gay marriage and abortion.\"The big question is: What happens to Marco Enriquez-Ominami's votes?\" Fabian Pressacco, a political analyst who expects a tight race, told Reuters. \"How many of those votes will go to Frei? I think most of them will.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "Billionaire to face leftwing former leader in Chile's presidential runoff"},{"date": "2009-12-06T00:05:15Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean folk singer V\u00edctor Jara, who became a symbol of opposition to the regime of Augusto Pinochet, was finally laid to rest in an emotional funeral in Santiago \u2013 36 years after he was tortured and murdered by the military government.Thousands of Chileans turned out to pay their respects to Jara, who rose from humble rural roots to become a renowned singer and theatre director in the early 1970s, when Chile witnessed a flourishing of radical ideas and the popular arts under Salvador Allende.Yesterday's funeral cortege was led by the singer's British widow, Joan. It was the second time she had buried her husband. In September 1973, a week after Pinochet led a coup against Allende, she took his lifeless body, riddled with machine-gun bullets, to Santiago's general cemetery and arranged a hasty, clandestine burial before fleeing into exile.The opportunity for a dignified funeral for Jara arose in June, when his corpse was exhumed in a bid to find out more about who killed him and how.A former army conscript, Jos\u00e9 Adolfo Paredes M\u00e1rquez, has been charged with Jara's murder as a result of the new inquiry. He denies involvement, but told investigators that an army officer known as \"El Loco\" played Russian roulette with Jara as he was held in Santiago's football stadium after the coup. The officer allegedly held a gun to the singer's head, spinning the cylinder and firing repeatedly, until eventually a single bullet blasted into the singer's brain. Paredes said soldiers were then ordered to finish Jara off by pumping more than 40 bullets into his body.Investigators are still trying to trace \"El Loco\" and another officer, known as \"El Pr\u00edncipe\" (The Prince), who, according to survivors, was particularly sadistic. The only person to have been convicted in relation to his death was a guard at the stadium. It was there that the singer was tortured and shot. His corpse was dumped outside the stadium and later taken to a mortuary for his widow to collect.The public funeral was welcomed by leading politicians in Chile, which is in the middle of a hard-fought election campaign. \"Finally, after 36 years, V\u00edctor can rest in peace,\" said Chile's president, Michelle Bachelet, who herself was a victim of the Pinochet regime and spent years in exile.Bachelet joined thousands of Chileans who filed past Jara's coffin during a two-day wake for the singer. Many of those who attended had, like Joan Jara, lost loved ones at the hands of the military.\"This is my father,\" said Cecilia Gonz\u00e1lez, pointing to a black-and-white photograph pinned to her lapel. \"He was a doctor who gave safe housing to a priest in the days after the coup. The priest was discovered and shot dead by a Chilean soldier. They arrested my father and tortured him and he died of his injuries. They killed our relatives, just like they killed V\u00edctor Jara.\"Jara's coffin was draped in his signature black-and-red woollen poncho during the wake. Wreaths of red roses and carnations were placed around it and some of those who arrived to pay their respects brought guitars and played his songs.An activist in the Chilean Communist party for much of his adult life, Jara remains a hero for the left and for musicians, not just in Chile but throughout Latin America and beyond. The Clash and U2 are among the groups who have paid homage to him.His handsome face, with its strong jawline and mop of curly black hair, is still a familiar sight on posters in Chile, and his music remains popular.Many of his best-known songs, such as Te Recuerdo, Amanda (I Remember You, Amanda) and Herminda de la Victoria (Herminda from Victoria), are simple ballads chronicling the lives of Chile's poor and downtrodden, its factory workers and its farmers.Others, such as El Derecho de Vivir en Paz (The Right to Live in Peace), refer to the international events of Jara's age, such as the Vietnam War.Jara rose to prominence in the late 1960s as part of the Nueva Canci\u00f3n (New Song) movement, which sought to infuse music with social commentary. With songs such as Preguntas por Puerto Montt (Questions about Puerto Montt) \u2013 which remembered a notorious massacre of landless poor in southern Chile in 1969 \u2013 he helped pave the way for the election of Allende in 1970.Throughout the three tumultuous years of Allende's government, Jara remained loyal to the president and his ideas. The two men died within days of each other.The inquiry into who should be held finally responsible for his death goes on. \"We need to know,\" said Guillermo Tellier, leader of the Chilean Communist party. \"We know how V\u00edctor Jara died, but we don't know who ordered his murder.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Music"], "title": "Murdered Chilean folk singer Victor Jara laid to rest after 36 years"},{"date": "2009-12-11T12:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We know that General Augusto Pinochet, the largely unlamented military dictator of Chile, ordered the murder of Salvador Allende, his predecessor as president. Yet now it seems that he also commanded the death by poisoning of Eduardo Frei Montalva, Allende's immediate predecessor. Six people have been charged in Santiago this week with killing him, and topical piquancy has been given to the news by the fact that Frei's son, also Eduardo and also a former president, is a candidate in the first round of presidential elections this week.Such Shakespearean bloodletting is uncommon in Latin America, and Pinochet's capacity for regicide will now be added to his existing reputation as a cold-blooded killer. Might he not also, perhaps, have brought about the death in 1986 of Jorge Alessandri, Frei senior's predecessor, who unwittingly created the opportunity for Allende to become president by intervening in the election of 1970 and splitting the rightwing vote? Alessandri died in his bed in 1986, at the age of 90, with Pinochet still in power.Pinochet, who died three years ago, still has powerful supporters both in Chile and in Europe, but the firming-up of the frequently heard accusation that he was behind the unexplained death of Frei in 1982 may cause a yet more negative appraisal of his long 17-year period in power.Eduardo Frei Sr was president of Chile from 1964 to 1970, supported by both his own Christian Democrat party and by the United States. He was an exceptionally radical president, embarking on the nationalisation of the country's US-owned copper mines and the takeover of its large estates. These were measures that were extended during Allende's government, with Allende enjoying the benefits of the legislation initiated during the Frei era.Halfway through his period in power, Frei lost the support of the US government, which concluded that he was \"a weak reed\" in the struggle against the left. Fearing that Radomiro Tomic, Frei's Christian Democrat successor, would lose the presidential election of 1970 to Salvador Allende, the Americans switched their support to the right-wing candidate, ex-President Alessandri. It was an error, since, in a three-horse race, the socialist Allende was the winner.Frei was an initial supporter of the Pinochet coup in 1973 that put an end to Chile's socialist experiment, although he was not aware of the machinations of the military. Allende died by his own hand, but Pinochet had planned for him to be murdered. Frei moved rapidly into opposition to the coup when it became clear that Pinochet loathed the Christian Democrats almost as much as he hated the Socialists. The austere and uncorruptible Frei became a unifying figure within the growing ranks of the opposition to Pinochet, posing a clear and identifiable threat to the dictator's power. His early death was always regarded as suspicious, both by his family and the country at large, but it has taken many years of investigation to bring the apparent perpetrators to public attention.Eduardo Frei Jr benefited from his father's reputation and became the Chilean president in the 1990s, at the head of the so-called Concertaci\u00f3n of the Christian Democrats and the parties of the left that had once supported Allende. He is seeking re-election this week, to replace Michelle Bachelet, the existing Socialist president (though also a member of the Concertaci\u00f3n). At present, Frei is second in the opinion polls to Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, the rightwing candidate, although the news about his father's murder will surely improve his chances, specifically in a second round to be held in January.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Pinochet's other victim | Richard Gott"},{"date": "2009-12-08T21:51:18Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Six men have been arrested in Chile over the murder of the country's former president Eduardo Frei Montalva, whose death in 1982 has been one of the most enduring mysteries of the Pinochet regime.Three suspects were charged with murder and three others with being accomplices to murder.Frei Montalva died at the Santa Maria clinic in Santiago, where he was recuperating from a hernia operation. Judge Alejandro Madrid, who investigated the case for seven years, said yesterday that the former Chilean leader was poisoned to death as multiple doses of thallium and mustard gas were secretly mixed with medications and injected into the president's body.\"This was an action by the military intelligence of the dictator [Pinochet], with a clear and precise objective, the elimination of President Frei,\" said Alvaro Varela, a human rights lawyer working for the Frei family. \"Those charged today are not the only ones ... there are more and we are headed in their direction.\"Family members had suspected Frei was poisoned after being tipped off by former aides to General Pinochet. In his 2002 book, Imperfect Crime, Chilean journalist Jorge Molina profiled Eugenio Barrios, a chemist who worked for the Chilean secret police on a series of radical experiments including the production of anthrax, botulism and the nerve gas sarin. Barrios, who was murdered in Uruguay, is suspected of administering the poison to Frei.The arrests came ahead of Sunday's presidential election, in which Senator Eduardo Frei, son of the murdered president, is one of the leading candidates. \"There is a before and an after because never before has there been [in Chile] an attack taking the life of a president,\" the senator said yesterday.\"This shows that justice takes time, but it does finally arrive as it has in this case,\" The Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, said. \"This is good for our society.\"Those arrested included medical personnel and members of the Pinochet secret police known as the Dina.The doctors were charged as accomplices for their role in conducting an illegal autopsy, removing all organs from the body of Frei and stuffing his corpse with gauze.Frei, who ruled Chile as a progressive president from 1964-1970, initially supported the 1973 military coup that led to the death of the president at the time, Salvador Allende. But, after human rights crimes, including thousands of murders, Frei Montalva emerged in 1980 as a key figure in the growing opposition to the military government led by Augusto Pinochet.The murder of Frei in January 1982 was followed a month later by the assassination of Tucapel Jim\u00e9nez, a leading union organiser, as the Pinochet regime systematically eliminated leading figures in the democratic opposition.", "tags": ["Chile", "Augusto Pinochet", "World news"], "title": "Six arrested over murder of former Chilean president"},{"date": "2009-11-03T14:44:37Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Former conscripts in Chile have offered to reveal details of murders and other crimes sanctioned under Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship in a move that could lead to some of the men receiving pensions and immunity from prosecution in return.The ex-soldiers say they want to end almost four decades of silence and share harrowing secrets about abuses they committed and witnessed. Some want to unburden their conscience, others to obtain immunity from possible prosecution or gain pensions and healthcare.Hundreds gathered in front of the presidential palace in the capital, Santiago, at the weekend to seek official recognition that they too were victims of the regime.\"Perhaps today is the day when the moment has come for us to describe what we saw and how we suffered inside the military bases, the things that we witnessed and that we did,\" Fernando Mellado, who leads the Santiago chapter of the veterans' group the Former Soldiers of 1973, told Associated Press.Mellado said Chile needed to understand what it was like for teenagers drafted into a feared security force which, according to an official count, killed 3,186 people after a US-backed military coup toppled the leftist president Salvador Allende in 1973.The dead included 1,197 \"disappeared\", some of whom were dumped from helicopters into the sea or buried at clandestine locations. Less than 8% have been recovered and identified.\"The moment has come for former military draftees to tell our wives, our families, the politicians, the society, the country and the whole world about the brutalities they subjected us to. I believe the moment has come for us to speak, for our personal redemption,\" said Mellado.He said about a quarter of the 8,000 recruits of 1973 from Santiago were willing to talk, but so far authorities had not grasped the opportunity.Since Pinochet's death in 2006, Chile has cautiously addressed his dictatorship's painful and politically awkward legacy. Other South American countries, notably Argentina, have been relatively bolder in tackling the crimes of their own military juntas.Some of the former Chilean conscripts who gathered in front of the presidential palace gave grisly testimonies. One confessed to shooting an entire family. Another, now homeless and an alcoholic, said he was forced to drown a seven-year-old boy in a barrel of hardening plaster.Jose Paredes, who served at the Tejas Verdes torture centre, tearfully recounted that his mission was to stand guard and listen to the screams. \"They would end up destroyed, torn apart, their teeth and faces broken. There are things that I've always said I will take to the grave,\" he told Associated Press, before naming six officers who he said gave the orders.Hiram Villagra, a lawyer for families of the dead and disappeared, welcomed the offer of testimony. \"Clearly there is no desire from our part for these soldiers to carry the burden of guilt of the officers, who were the ones who made the decisions,\" he said.", "tags": ["Augusto Pinochet", "Chile", "Human rights", "Torture", "World news", "Law"], "title": "Ex-conscripts offer to reveal details of Pinochet regime murders"},{"date": "2009-12-13T18:04:20Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Rodrigo Garc\u00eda Pinochet, a grandson of Augusto Pinochet, attempted to revive the family's political dynasty by running for congress today.Images of the late dictator were used in the 33-year-old economist's campaign in one of Santiago's richest and most conservative districts. The general's widow, Luc\u00eda Hiriart, said her husband would have been proud of his favourite grandson.Many conservative voters still revere the surname but the main centre-right alliance snubbed him as an embarrassing reminder of a fraught past. He ran as an independent.The Spanish judge Baltasar Garz\u00f3n complicated the campaign by threatening to seize up to $100m from Banco de Chile as part of an investigation into Pinochet family funds.Rodrigo Pinochet was the last relative to see the dictator alive, in December 2006 as the 91-year-old general lay dying in his hospital bed. He was also the only relative to accompany his grandfather on the ill-fated flight to London in 1998 that led to the dictator's arrest and protracted extradition case.", "tags": ["Augusto Pinochet", "Chile", "World news"], "title": "A Pinochet with hopes of reviving a political dynasty"},{"date": "2009-10-11T18:54:41Z", "country": "chile", "content": "It was supposed to be a first step in controlling the throngs of tourists and migrants that threaten the fragile ecology and cultural heritage of Easter Island.Since last month, every visitor to the tiny speck in the Pacific, the remote island and home to famous giant stone statues, has been obliged to fill in a card detailing their movements. That way, indigenous leaders and Chilean authorities, who administer the island, could in theory monitor and curb the influx before it becomes too damaging.Chile's supreme court, however, has now ruled that the Special Visitor's Card, known by its Spanish initials TEV, violates the constitutional right to freedom of movement. Obliging people to fill in the document was \"arbitrary, illegal and unconstitutional\", it said.The ruling has dismayed the 2,500 Rapa Nui people who feel overrun by the 70,000 visitors to the island every year, a fivefold increase from just a decade ago.\"The court's ruling is a mistake,\" Mario Tuki, spokesman of a group called the Rapa Nui Parliament, told the BBC. \"They have no idea of what is happening here.\"The isolated island, 2,300 miles west of Chile and 1,200 miles east of Pitcairn, survives on tourist revenue, but local authorities say there are now too many arrivals. The boom is straining a basic infrastructure short of water, electricity and sanitation services. Mounting waste is putting underground water sources at risk.The irony is that Easter Island is a symbol of ecological and civilisational collapse: the ancient, sophisticated society which built the statues all but vanished, it is thought, because of environmental degradation.Some tourists damage the monolithic statues, know as Moais, by climbing on them and engraving their names. A Finnish tourist was fined for hacking off an earlobe as a memento. There is also resentment against the estimated 2,500 Chilean migrants from the mainland \u2013 equal to the Rapa Nui \u2013 who take jobs.Indigenous activists blocked the airport's runway for two days in August. Some have called for independence and the expulsion of Chileans. \"In recent months people have simply reacted to the influx and the numbers who come from the continent to settle here,\" said Tuki.Chile's government promised to cede more power to the Rapa Nui and to control immigration. A first step, based partly on Ecuador's system to protect the Galapagos Islands, was a visitor card.Every Chilean and foreigner boarding a flight from Santiago for Easter Island was obliged to fill in a card stating the purpose of visit and where and for how long they would be staying. Last week the supreme court unanimously upheld a lower court's ruling that the document's mandatory nature violated the constitution.The government said the cards would now be voluntary. A consultation process with islanders is due later this month.", "tags": ["Chile", "Conservation", "Environment", "World news", "Archaeology", "Science", "Travel"], "title": "Easter Island residents fear ruin over tourist ruling"},{"date": "2010-01-18T12:30:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The failure of the governing coalition in Chile to win Sunday's presidential election was as predictable as the forthcoming failure of the British Labour party to win re-election in the spring. It is rooted in similar causes: tedium, irritation and dissatisfaction on the part of the electorate, and division, incompetence and intellectual bankruptcy from the Concertaci\u00f3n alliance (of socialists and Christian Democrats) that has ruled the country since the overthrow of General Pinochet.Maybe the result will not be too bad for Chile, although it will have a baneful impact on Latin America, which had been moving in a more progressive direction in the past decade. Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, the new president, is a wealthy businessman but a political lightweight, and he will struggle to disassociate his government from its powerful Pinochetista supporters. The Uni\u00f3n Dem\u00f3crata Independiente, the current representative of the long-established fascist current in Chilean political life, is the largest party in the lower house of Congress, whereas the now-opposition Concertaci\u00f3n appears to have a majority of one in the Senate. Pi\u00f1era will have similar problems to those of the outgoing, nominally socialist president Michelle Bachelet, in securing support for his conservative programme. Bachelet was probably the most popular president in Chilean history, but her legislative achievements have been negligible. She was unable to transfer her own personal popularity to the Concertaci\u00f3n's losing candidate, the lacklustre former president Eduardo Frei.Pi\u00f1era's problem, aside from his congressional difficulties, is that he is an old-fashioned, not to say antediluvian supporter of the neoliberal economic model, in a world that is rapidly becoming aware of its limitations. Chile is often perceived by outsiders as an example of just how positive that model could be, yet in practice the growing discontent of large swaths of the population, reflected in the election result, is similar to that experienced in other Latin American countries \u2013 leading to popular explosions of rage that have brought about serious political change.Chile likes to think of itself as an exception in the Latin American context, but its underlying problems are not dissimilar: millions still in irreducible poverty amid gross scenes of capitalist excess, active and angry students who see their dreams of the future frustrated, enraged indigenous peoples whose lands and forests have been plundered, endemic and seemingly ineradicable corruption, and the survival of an ultra-conservative constitution, the poisoned legacy of General Pinochet.There is little in President Pi\u00f1era's background, nor in that of the ultra-rightwing political forces upon whom he will be forced to rely, to lead one to suppose that he will successfully tackle all, or indeed any of these problems. The progressive groups that make up the Concertaci\u00f3n, meanwhile, have four years in which to rethink, re-organise, and reconsider what the future holds. Faced with the resurgence of the implacable right, they may find that the Concertaci\u00f3n itself, which has served the country reasonably well in the post-Pinochet era, is no longer an adequate instrument for the 21st century. Something else will be needed.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "What next for Chile? | Richard Gott"},{"date": "2010-01-18T12:30:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The failure of the governing coalition in Chile to win Sunday's presidential election was as predictable as the forthcoming failure of the British Labour party to win re-election in the spring. It is rooted in similar causes: tedium, irritation and dissatisfaction on the part of the electorate, and division, incompetence and intellectual bankruptcy from the Concertaci\u00f3n alliance (of socialists and Christian Democrats) that has ruled the country since the overthrow of General Pinochet.Maybe the result will not be too bad for Chile, although it will have a baneful impact on Latin America, which had been moving in a more progressive direction in the past decade. Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, the new president, is a wealthy businessman but a political lightweight, and he will struggle to disassociate his government from its powerful Pinochetista supporters. The Uni\u00f3n Dem\u00f3crata Independiente, the current representative of the long-established fascist current in Chilean political life, is the largest party in the lower house of Congress, whereas the now-opposition Concertaci\u00f3n appears to have a majority of one in the Senate. Pi\u00f1era will have similar problems to those of the outgoing, nominally socialist president Michelle Bachelet, in securing support for his conservative programme. Bachelet was probably the most popular president in Chilean history, but her legislative achievements have been negligible. She was unable to transfer her own personal popularity to the Concertaci\u00f3n's losing candidate, the lacklustre former president Eduardo Frei.Pi\u00f1era's problem, aside from his congressional difficulties, is that he is an old-fashioned, not to say antediluvian supporter of the neoliberal economic model, in a world that is rapidly becoming aware of its limitations. Chile is often perceived by outsiders as an example of just how positive that model could be, yet in practice the growing discontent of large swaths of the population, reflected in the election result, is similar to that experienced in other Latin American countries \u2013 leading to popular explosions of rage that have brought about serious political change.Chile likes to think of itself as an exception in the Latin American context, but its underlying problems are not dissimilar: millions still in irreducible poverty amid gross scenes of capitalist excess, active and angry students who see their dreams of the future frustrated, enraged indigenous peoples whose lands and forests have been plundered, endemic and seemingly ineradicable corruption, and the survival of an ultra-conservative constitution, the poisoned legacy of General Pinochet.There is little in President Pi\u00f1era's background, nor in that of the ultra-rightwing political forces upon whom he will be forced to rely, to lead one to suppose that he will successfully tackle all, or indeed any of these problems. The progressive groups that make up the Concertaci\u00f3n, meanwhile, have four years in which to rethink, re-organise, and reconsider what the future holds. Faced with the resurgence of the implacable right, they may find that the Concertaci\u00f3n itself, which has served the country reasonably well in the post-Pinochet era, is no longer an adequate instrument for the 21st century. Something else will be needed.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "What next for Chile? | Richard Gott"},{"date": "2010-03-03T20:34:42Z", "country": "chile", "content": "With the death toll unchanged at about 800 and aid flowing to southern cities, Chile today began to assess the industrial and economic cost of its earthquake.After meeting business leaders, President Michelle Bachelet announced a grim summary of damaged industrial plants, ports and destroyed bridges. The cost could be as high as $30bn.The earthquake on Saturday destroyed major parts of Chile's central valley, home to many of the country's exports, ranging from fish meal to merlot. All major fishmeal and paper production operations were halted while plants were inspected.Southern ports were closed and inside dozens of bodegas, or wine stores, a river of wine soaked into the soil, raising concerns about damage to the industry. Initial estimates put the quantity of lost wine at 100m bottles, or roughly a sixth of the country's annual export. Antonio Larrain, general manager of the Chilean Wine Corporation, estimated that 20% of Chile's stored wine may have been lost. He calculated the value at $300m, which did not include the widespread damage to infrastructure ranging from underground irrigation tubing to warehouses.Wines of Chile, an industry group, held an emergency meeting today and announced that 12% of the country's wine production had been lost. Reports from individual wineries suggest that does not represent the true scale of the disaster. \"Many wineries that lost 80% of their production are publicly saying just 15% was lost,\" said one wine executive who asked not be named, citing the fear that distributors would terminate distribution contracts with wineries most heavily damaged. \"This is an incredibly touchy subject,\" he said.Grant Phelps, chief winemaker at the Casas del Bosque winery, said: \"The vineyards still have no electricity in Maule so they have not watered their vines since Saturday, so already we are talking five days. It is a hot time of year ... the fruit is going to raisin.\"Casas del Bosque, in the Casablanca Valley, close to Santiago, was not severely damaged and lost only an estimated 5,000 litres. Phelps said wineries further south were much worse off. \"These guys could not do anything as they had no [electrical] pumps [so] they had to watch it go down the drain.\"[On 5 March, after this story appeared, the UK director of Wines of Chile, Michael Cox, contacted the guardian to say that the figures of 125m litres lost, representing about 12.5% of stock, \"is an accurate assessment of the situation. The data was collated and assessed in a very robust way with contact being made with all the major wineries and companies\".]Chile's fruit industry is an important source of employment for the central valley: thousands of pickers flood into the region every March. With tonnes of apples shaken to the ground, roads and workers' housing destroyed, the fate of this year's harvest is unclear.Much of the damage in the wine industry came when big storage tanks \u2013 stainless steel vats 5m high \u2013 toppled over. Wine stored in barrels was also lost as they rolled off the racks, cracked open or popped their seals, flooding bodegas with merlots, carmeneres and cabernet sauvignon.\"These big stainless steel tanks crashed to the ground. Wine was on the floor, it was very hard to look at,\" said Pablo Morande Jr, of Morande wines. An estimated 2.5m litres of wine was lost, representing 10% of production, he said.With the harvest just under way, Chile's wineries are scrambling to find electrical generators to keep drip irrigation systems running. Centuries old irrigation canals that bring fresh water from the mountains have collapsed, with water spilling down the hillsides.A scramble to buy grapes is expected as top producers seek to guarantee enough raw material to fulfil future orders. Exporters in central Chile are looking at shipping produce over the Andes and using the port of Buenos Aires.\u2022 This article was amended on 5 March 2010 to include a response from Wines of Chile.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Chile earthquake hits wine industry"},{"date": "2010-01-18T12:30:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The failure of the governing coalition in Chile to win Sunday's presidential election was as predictable as the forthcoming failure of the British Labour party to win re-election in the spring. It is rooted in similar causes: tedium, irritation and dissatisfaction on the part of the electorate, and division, incompetence and intellectual bankruptcy from the Concertaci\u00f3n alliance (of socialists and Christian Democrats) that has ruled the country since the overthrow of General Pinochet.Maybe the result will not be too bad for Chile, although it will have a baneful impact on Latin America, which had been moving in a more progressive direction in the past decade. Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, the new president, is a wealthy businessman but a political lightweight, and he will struggle to disassociate his government from its powerful Pinochetista supporters. The Uni\u00f3n Dem\u00f3crata Independiente, the current representative of the long-established fascist current in Chilean political life, is the largest party in the lower house of Congress, whereas the now-opposition Concertaci\u00f3n appears to have a majority of one in the Senate. Pi\u00f1era will have similar problems to those of the outgoing, nominally socialist president Michelle Bachelet, in securing support for his conservative programme. Bachelet was probably the most popular president in Chilean history, but her legislative achievements have been negligible. She was unable to transfer her own personal popularity to the Concertaci\u00f3n's losing candidate, the lacklustre former president Eduardo Frei.Pi\u00f1era's problem, aside from his congressional difficulties, is that he is an old-fashioned, not to say antediluvian supporter of the neoliberal economic model, in a world that is rapidly becoming aware of its limitations. Chile is often perceived by outsiders as an example of just how positive that model could be, yet in practice the growing discontent of large swaths of the population, reflected in the election result, is similar to that experienced in other Latin American countries \u2013 leading to popular explosions of rage that have brought about serious political change.Chile likes to think of itself as an exception in the Latin American context, but its underlying problems are not dissimilar: millions still in irreducible poverty amid gross scenes of capitalist excess, active and angry students who see their dreams of the future frustrated, enraged indigenous peoples whose lands and forests have been plundered, endemic and seemingly ineradicable corruption, and the survival of an ultra-conservative constitution, the poisoned legacy of General Pinochet.There is little in President Pi\u00f1era's background, nor in that of the ultra-rightwing political forces upon whom he will be forced to rely, to lead one to suppose that he will successfully tackle all, or indeed any of these problems. The progressive groups that make up the Concertaci\u00f3n, meanwhile, have four years in which to rethink, re-organise, and reconsider what the future holds. Faced with the resurgence of the implacable right, they may find that the Concertaci\u00f3n itself, which has served the country reasonably well in the post-Pinochet era, is no longer an adequate instrument for the 21st century. Something else will be needed.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "What next for Chile? | Richard Gott"},{"date": "2010-03-03T20:34:42Z", "country": "chile", "content": "With the death toll unchanged at about 800 and aid flowing to southern cities, Chile today began to assess the industrial and economic cost of its earthquake.After meeting business leaders, President Michelle Bachelet announced a grim summary of damaged industrial plants, ports and destroyed bridges. The cost could be as high as $30bn.The earthquake on Saturday destroyed major parts of Chile's central valley, home to many of the country's exports, ranging from fish meal to merlot. All major fishmeal and paper production operations were halted while plants were inspected.Southern ports were closed and inside dozens of bodegas, or wine stores, a river of wine soaked into the soil, raising concerns about damage to the industry. Initial estimates put the quantity of lost wine at 100m bottles, or roughly a sixth of the country's annual export. Antonio Larrain, general manager of the Chilean Wine Corporation, estimated that 20% of Chile's stored wine may have been lost. He calculated the value at $300m, which did not include the widespread damage to infrastructure ranging from underground irrigation tubing to warehouses.Wines of Chile, an industry group, held an emergency meeting today and announced that 12% of the country's wine production had been lost. Reports from individual wineries suggest that does not represent the true scale of the disaster. \"Many wineries that lost 80% of their production are publicly saying just 15% was lost,\" said one wine executive who asked not be named, citing the fear that distributors would terminate distribution contracts with wineries most heavily damaged. \"This is an incredibly touchy subject,\" he said.Grant Phelps, chief winemaker at the Casas del Bosque winery, said: \"The vineyards still have no electricity in Maule so they have not watered their vines since Saturday, so already we are talking five days. It is a hot time of year ... the fruit is going to raisin.\"Casas del Bosque, in the Casablanca Valley, close to Santiago, was not severely damaged and lost only an estimated 5,000 litres. Phelps said wineries further south were much worse off. \"These guys could not do anything as they had no [electrical] pumps [so] they had to watch it go down the drain.\"[On 5 March, after this story appeared, the UK director of Wines of Chile, Michael Cox, contacted the guardian to say that the figures of 125m litres lost, representing about 12.5% of stock, \"is an accurate assessment of the situation. The data was collated and assessed in a very robust way with contact being made with all the major wineries and companies\".]Chile's fruit industry is an important source of employment for the central valley: thousands of pickers flood into the region every March. With tonnes of apples shaken to the ground, roads and workers' housing destroyed, the fate of this year's harvest is unclear.Much of the damage in the wine industry came when big storage tanks \u2013 stainless steel vats 5m high \u2013 toppled over. Wine stored in barrels was also lost as they rolled off the racks, cracked open or popped their seals, flooding bodegas with merlots, carmeneres and cabernet sauvignon.\"These big stainless steel tanks crashed to the ground. Wine was on the floor, it was very hard to look at,\" said Pablo Morande Jr, of Morande wines. An estimated 2.5m litres of wine was lost, representing 10% of production, he said.With the harvest just under way, Chile's wineries are scrambling to find electrical generators to keep drip irrigation systems running. Centuries old irrigation canals that bring fresh water from the mountains have collapsed, with water spilling down the hillsides.A scramble to buy grapes is expected as top producers seek to guarantee enough raw material to fulfil future orders. Exporters in central Chile are looking at shipping produce over the Andes and using the port of Buenos Aires.\u2022 This article was amended on 5 March 2010 to include a response from Wines of Chile.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Chile earthquake hits wine industry"},{"date": "2010-02-27T22:25:56Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A huge earthquake has shaken Chile, killing more than 200 people, causing buildings to collapse, starting fires and unleashing a tsunami across the Pacific. With a magnitude of 8.8, it opened cracks in the earth, flipped cars and devastated the city of Concepci\u00f3n, 70 miles from the epicentre.The number of dead quickly rose to 214, and is expected to increase. David Miliband, the foreign secretary, last night said there was no information yet on British casualties.The Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, declared a \"state of catastrophe\" as emergency teams scrambled over rubble looking for survivors. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre issued an alert for countries in Latin America as well as Japan, Russia, the Philippines, Indonesia and French Polynesia. A massive wave hit Robinson Crusoe island, the largest of the Juan Fern\u00e1ndez archipelago, where at least three people were killed. Residents were evacuated from the coastal areas of Easter Island.Sirens sounded across Hawaii at 6am local time (4pm GMT)on Saturday . The island's beaches were cleared as people retreated to higher ground, and tourists were moved to the upper storeys of hotels. Residents rushed to buy supplies before driving inland.The US Geological Survey said the quake struck at a depth of 22\u00a0miles in the early hours of Saturday. It was much more powerful than the quake that devastated Haiti in January, but because it was deeper, and Chile's buildings are sturdier, there were fewer casualties.President Bachelet said: \"People should remain calm. We're doing everything we can with all the forces we have. Any information [we have] we will share immediately.\"The disaster was the strongest earthquake to hit Chile in 50 years and one of the strongest ever measured. The quake shook buildings in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and was felt as far away as S\u00e3o Paulo in Brazil \u2013 1,800 miles to the east.The historic town centre of Talca, just 65 miles from the epicentre, largely collapsed. The weakest buildings, made of adobe mud and straw, were mostly commercial premises and were not inhabited at the time. Neighbours pulled at least five people from the rubble.Collapsed roads and bridges complicated travel across the country. Electricity, water and phone lines were cut to many areas, so there was little word of casualties or damage from more remote areas. In Santiago, the capital, 200 miles north-east of the epicentre, a car dangled from a collapsed overpass; the national Fine Arts Museum was badly damaged, and an apartment building's two-storey parking lot had pancaked, smashing about 50 cars.Bachelet said that she had no information on the number of people injured. Chile had not asked for assistance from other countries. \"The system is functioning. People should remain calm. We're doing everything we can with all the forces we have,\" said the president.Powerful aftershocks shook the country's coastline. There were 29 of magnitude 5 or greater, and one reaching 6.9, the US Geological Survey reported.Modern buildings in Santiago have been built to withstand earthquakes, but many older ones were heavily damaged, including the Nuestra Se\u00f1ora de la Providencia church, where the bell tower had collapsed. A bridge just outside the capital also collapsed, and at least one car was turned upside down. Several hospitals were evacuated after being damaged, Bachelet said.Santiago's airport will remain closed for at least 24 hours after the passenger terminal suffered major damage, airport director Eduardo del Canto told Chilean television. Television images showed smashed windows, partially collapsed ceilings and deserted pedestrian walkways at the airport. Santiago's subway network was closed, and hundreds of buses were trapped at a terminal by a damaged bridge.In Concepci\u00f3n, Chile's second largest city, which lies 70 miles from the epicentre, nurses and residents pushed the injured through the streets on stretchers. Others walked around in a daze wrapped in blankets, some carrying infants in their arms. A 15-storey building collapsed, leaving only a few floors intact.\"I was on the eighth floor and all of a sudden I was down here,\" said Fernando Abarzua, marvelling that he had escaped with no major injuries. He said a relative was still trapped in the rubble six hours after the quake, \"but he keeps shouting, saying he's OK\", he said.Marco Vidal, a tour director for Grand Circle Travel, who was travelling with a group of 34 Americans, was on the 19th floor of the Crowne Plaza hotel in Santiago when the quake struck. \"All the things started to fall. The lamps, everything, was going on the floor,\" he said. \"I felt terrified.\"Cynthia Iocono, from Linwood, Pennsylvania, first thought the quake was a train. \"But then I thought: 'Oh, there's no train here.' And then the lamps flew off the dresser and my TV flew off on to the floor and crashed.\"The earthquake struck after concert-goers had left South America's leading music festival in the coastal city of Vi\u00f1a del Mar, but it caught party-goers leaving a club. \"It was very bad. People were screaming. Some people were running, others appeared paralysed. I was one of them,\" said one witness.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Tsunami alert after Chile earthquake"},{"date": "2010-01-18T12:30:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The failure of the governing coalition in Chile to win Sunday's presidential election was as predictable as the forthcoming failure of the British Labour party to win re-election in the spring. It is rooted in similar causes: tedium, irritation and dissatisfaction on the part of the electorate, and division, incompetence and intellectual bankruptcy from the Concertaci\u00f3n alliance (of socialists and Christian Democrats) that has ruled the country since the overthrow of General Pinochet.Maybe the result will not be too bad for Chile, although it will have a baneful impact on Latin America, which had been moving in a more progressive direction in the past decade. Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, the new president, is a wealthy businessman but a political lightweight, and he will struggle to disassociate his government from its powerful Pinochetista supporters. The Uni\u00f3n Dem\u00f3crata Independiente, the current representative of the long-established fascist current in Chilean political life, is the largest party in the lower house of Congress, whereas the now-opposition Concertaci\u00f3n appears to have a majority of one in the Senate. Pi\u00f1era will have similar problems to those of the outgoing, nominally socialist president Michelle Bachelet, in securing support for his conservative programme. Bachelet was probably the most popular president in Chilean history, but her legislative achievements have been negligible. She was unable to transfer her own personal popularity to the Concertaci\u00f3n's losing candidate, the lacklustre former president Eduardo Frei.Pi\u00f1era's problem, aside from his congressional difficulties, is that he is an old-fashioned, not to say antediluvian supporter of the neoliberal economic model, in a world that is rapidly becoming aware of its limitations. Chile is often perceived by outsiders as an example of just how positive that model could be, yet in practice the growing discontent of large swaths of the population, reflected in the election result, is similar to that experienced in other Latin American countries \u2013 leading to popular explosions of rage that have brought about serious political change.Chile likes to think of itself as an exception in the Latin American context, but its underlying problems are not dissimilar: millions still in irreducible poverty amid gross scenes of capitalist excess, active and angry students who see their dreams of the future frustrated, enraged indigenous peoples whose lands and forests have been plundered, endemic and seemingly ineradicable corruption, and the survival of an ultra-conservative constitution, the poisoned legacy of General Pinochet.There is little in President Pi\u00f1era's background, nor in that of the ultra-rightwing political forces upon whom he will be forced to rely, to lead one to suppose that he will successfully tackle all, or indeed any of these problems. The progressive groups that make up the Concertaci\u00f3n, meanwhile, have four years in which to rethink, re-organise, and reconsider what the future holds. Faced with the resurgence of the implacable right, they may find that the Concertaci\u00f3n itself, which has served the country reasonably well in the post-Pinochet era, is no longer an adequate instrument for the 21st century. Something else will be needed.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "What next for Chile? | Richard Gott"},{"date": "2010-03-03T20:34:42Z", "country": "chile", "content": "With the death toll unchanged at about 800 and aid flowing to southern cities, Chile today began to assess the industrial and economic cost of its earthquake.After meeting business leaders, President Michelle Bachelet announced a grim summary of damaged industrial plants, ports and destroyed bridges. The cost could be as high as $30bn.The earthquake on Saturday destroyed major parts of Chile's central valley, home to many of the country's exports, ranging from fish meal to merlot. All major fishmeal and paper production operations were halted while plants were inspected.Southern ports were closed and inside dozens of bodegas, or wine stores, a river of wine soaked into the soil, raising concerns about damage to the industry. Initial estimates put the quantity of lost wine at 100m bottles, or roughly a sixth of the country's annual export. Antonio Larrain, general manager of the Chilean Wine Corporation, estimated that 20% of Chile's stored wine may have been lost. He calculated the value at $300m, which did not include the widespread damage to infrastructure ranging from underground irrigation tubing to warehouses.Wines of Chile, an industry group, held an emergency meeting today and announced that 12% of the country's wine production had been lost. Reports from individual wineries suggest that does not represent the true scale of the disaster. \"Many wineries that lost 80% of their production are publicly saying just 15% was lost,\" said one wine executive who asked not be named, citing the fear that distributors would terminate distribution contracts with wineries most heavily damaged. \"This is an incredibly touchy subject,\" he said.Grant Phelps, chief winemaker at the Casas del Bosque winery, said: \"The vineyards still have no electricity in Maule so they have not watered their vines since Saturday, so already we are talking five days. It is a hot time of year ... the fruit is going to raisin.\"Casas del Bosque, in the Casablanca Valley, close to Santiago, was not severely damaged and lost only an estimated 5,000 litres. Phelps said wineries further south were much worse off. \"These guys could not do anything as they had no [electrical] pumps [so] they had to watch it go down the drain.\"[On 5 March, after this story appeared, the UK director of Wines of Chile, Michael Cox, contacted the guardian to say that the figures of 125m litres lost, representing about 12.5% of stock, \"is an accurate assessment of the situation. The data was collated and assessed in a very robust way with contact being made with all the major wineries and companies\".]Chile's fruit industry is an important source of employment for the central valley: thousands of pickers flood into the region every March. With tonnes of apples shaken to the ground, roads and workers' housing destroyed, the fate of this year's harvest is unclear.Much of the damage in the wine industry came when big storage tanks \u2013 stainless steel vats 5m high \u2013 toppled over. Wine stored in barrels was also lost as they rolled off the racks, cracked open or popped their seals, flooding bodegas with merlots, carmeneres and cabernet sauvignon.\"These big stainless steel tanks crashed to the ground. Wine was on the floor, it was very hard to look at,\" said Pablo Morande Jr, of Morande wines. An estimated 2.5m litres of wine was lost, representing 10% of production, he said.With the harvest just under way, Chile's wineries are scrambling to find electrical generators to keep drip irrigation systems running. Centuries old irrigation canals that bring fresh water from the mountains have collapsed, with water spilling down the hillsides.A scramble to buy grapes is expected as top producers seek to guarantee enough raw material to fulfil future orders. Exporters in central Chile are looking at shipping produce over the Andes and using the port of Buenos Aires.\u2022 This article was amended on 5 March 2010 to include a response from Wines of Chile.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Chile earthquake hits wine industry"},{"date": "2010-02-27T22:25:56Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A huge earthquake has shaken Chile, killing more than 200 people, causing buildings to collapse, starting fires and unleashing a tsunami across the Pacific. With a magnitude of 8.8, it opened cracks in the earth, flipped cars and devastated the city of Concepci\u00f3n, 70 miles from the epicentre.The number of dead quickly rose to 214, and is expected to increase. David Miliband, the foreign secretary, last night said there was no information yet on British casualties.The Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, declared a \"state of catastrophe\" as emergency teams scrambled over rubble looking for survivors. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre issued an alert for countries in Latin America as well as Japan, Russia, the Philippines, Indonesia and French Polynesia. A massive wave hit Robinson Crusoe island, the largest of the Juan Fern\u00e1ndez archipelago, where at least three people were killed. Residents were evacuated from the coastal areas of Easter Island.Sirens sounded across Hawaii at 6am local time (4pm GMT)on Saturday . The island's beaches were cleared as people retreated to higher ground, and tourists were moved to the upper storeys of hotels. Residents rushed to buy supplies before driving inland.The US Geological Survey said the quake struck at a depth of 22\u00a0miles in the early hours of Saturday. It was much more powerful than the quake that devastated Haiti in January, but because it was deeper, and Chile's buildings are sturdier, there were fewer casualties.President Bachelet said: \"People should remain calm. We're doing everything we can with all the forces we have. Any information [we have] we will share immediately.\"The disaster was the strongest earthquake to hit Chile in 50 years and one of the strongest ever measured. The quake shook buildings in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and was felt as far away as S\u00e3o Paulo in Brazil \u2013 1,800 miles to the east.The historic town centre of Talca, just 65 miles from the epicentre, largely collapsed. The weakest buildings, made of adobe mud and straw, were mostly commercial premises and were not inhabited at the time. Neighbours pulled at least five people from the rubble.Collapsed roads and bridges complicated travel across the country. Electricity, water and phone lines were cut to many areas, so there was little word of casualties or damage from more remote areas. In Santiago, the capital, 200 miles north-east of the epicentre, a car dangled from a collapsed overpass; the national Fine Arts Museum was badly damaged, and an apartment building's two-storey parking lot had pancaked, smashing about 50 cars.Bachelet said that she had no information on the number of people injured. Chile had not asked for assistance from other countries. \"The system is functioning. People should remain calm. We're doing everything we can with all the forces we have,\" said the president.Powerful aftershocks shook the country's coastline. There were 29 of magnitude 5 or greater, and one reaching 6.9, the US Geological Survey reported.Modern buildings in Santiago have been built to withstand earthquakes, but many older ones were heavily damaged, including the Nuestra Se\u00f1ora de la Providencia church, where the bell tower had collapsed. A bridge just outside the capital also collapsed, and at least one car was turned upside down. Several hospitals were evacuated after being damaged, Bachelet said.Santiago's airport will remain closed for at least 24 hours after the passenger terminal suffered major damage, airport director Eduardo del Canto told Chilean television. Television images showed smashed windows, partially collapsed ceilings and deserted pedestrian walkways at the airport. Santiago's subway network was closed, and hundreds of buses were trapped at a terminal by a damaged bridge.In Concepci\u00f3n, Chile's second largest city, which lies 70 miles from the epicentre, nurses and residents pushed the injured through the streets on stretchers. Others walked around in a daze wrapped in blankets, some carrying infants in their arms. A 15-storey building collapsed, leaving only a few floors intact.\"I was on the eighth floor and all of a sudden I was down here,\" said Fernando Abarzua, marvelling that he had escaped with no major injuries. He said a relative was still trapped in the rubble six hours after the quake, \"but he keeps shouting, saying he's OK\", he said.Marco Vidal, a tour director for Grand Circle Travel, who was travelling with a group of 34 Americans, was on the 19th floor of the Crowne Plaza hotel in Santiago when the quake struck. \"All the things started to fall. The lamps, everything, was going on the floor,\" he said. \"I felt terrified.\"Cynthia Iocono, from Linwood, Pennsylvania, first thought the quake was a train. \"But then I thought: 'Oh, there's no train here.' And then the lamps flew off the dresser and my TV flew off on to the floor and crashed.\"The earthquake struck after concert-goers had left South America's leading music festival in the coastal city of Vi\u00f1a del Mar, but it caught party-goers leaving a club. \"It was very bad. People were screaming. Some people were running, others appeared paralysed. I was one of them,\" said one witness.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Tsunami alert after Chile earthquake"},{"date": "2010-02-27T14:37:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A massive earthquake with a magnitude of 8.8 has struck central Chile, killing at least 85 people and triggering a tsunami.The tremor shook the capital, Santiago, for a minute and a half early this morning, bringing down telephone and power lines. The Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, said there were more than 85 deaths just in the Maule region at the quake's epicentre, and that more were possible.Declaring a \"state of catastrophe\" in central Chile, Bachelet said: \"We have had a huge earthquake with some aftershocks. We're doing everything we can with all the forces we have. Any information we will share immediately. Without a doubt, with an earthquake of this magnitude, there will be more deaths.\"Chile's interior minister, Edmundo Perez Yoma, said: \"It has been a devastating earthquake. The death toll will continue rising.\"Santiago's international airport was forced to close, a highway bridge collapsed and rubble from damaged buildings fell on to the streets. Speaking to a local television station in Temuco, one witness said: \"Never in my life have I experienced a quake like this, it's like the end of the world.\"A huge wave reached a populated area in the Robinson Crusoe Islands, off the Chilean coast, and warnings of tidal waves were issued in 53 other countries. The Pacific tsunami warning centre said the quake generated a wave that could cause destruction along nearby shores \"and could also be a threat to more distant coasts\". It issued a tsunami warning for Chile, Peru and Hawaii, while Ecuador, Colombia, Panama, Costa Rica and Antarctica are also on alert.The centre warned that waves up to 4.8 metres high could hit the coasts of all the Hawaiian islands, with the first reaching Hawaii at 9pm GMT. \"Urgent action should be taken to protect lives and property,\" the centre said in a bulletin. \"All shores are at risk no matter which direction they face.\"The centre said the first waves after a quake were not necessarily the largest, and wave heights were difficult to predict because they can vary significantly along a coast due to the local topography.Chile's navy said officials had lifted the tsunami warning in southern Chile, local radio reported. The Joint Australian tsunami warning centre warned of a \"potential tsunami threat\" to the states of New South Wales and Queensland, Lord Howe Island and Norfolk Island.The quake was centred 200 miles south-west of Santiago at a depth of 22 miles, according to the US Geological Survey. It reported 11 aftershocks, five of them measuring 6.0 or above, in the two and a half hours following the quake.It warned that an earthquake of magnitude 8 or above could cause \"tremendous damage\". The quake that devastated Haiti's capital, Port-au-Prince, in January was magnitude 7.0.The quake shook buildings as far away as Argentina. A series of strong aftershocks rocked Chile's coast, from Valdivia in the south to Valparaiso 500 miles to the north. The epicentre was 70 miles from Concepcion, Chile's second largest city, with a population of about 670,000.Chile is at a high risk of earthquakes because it lies on the boundary between the Pacific and South American tectonic plates. According to seismologists, there is usually about one quake of magnitude eight or more a year, and one reaching 8.8 would be expected only every few years.Dr David Rothery, senior lecturer at the Open University's department of earth and environmental sciences, said the tsunami was \"now radiating away from the epicentre and travelling at several hundred km per hour across the Pacific ocean\".Dr Brian Baptie, of the British Geological Survey, said: \"In global terms this is a very rare quake. Chile has experienced some very big quakes in the past. It was about 124 miles north-east of the largest earthquake ever recorded \u2013 9.5, in 1960 \u2013 which resulted in a destructive tsunami that killed many thousands of people around the Pacific.\"He said a 1.3-metre tsunami wave was observed at Valparaiso about 20 minutes after the earthquake. \"Tsunami waves in the deep ocean travel about the same speed as a jet plane and would take about 15 hours to reach Hawaii and about 20 hours to reach the other side of the Pacific,\" he said.The largest earthquake ever recorded struck the same area of Chile on 22 May 1960. The magnitude-9.5 quake killed 1,655 people and left 2 million homeless, and caused a tsunami that killed people in Hawaii, Japan and the Philippines.That tsunami was about one to four metres in height, according to Japan's meteorological agency. It said the tsunami from today's quake was likely to be much smaller.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Deadly earthquake hits central Chile"},{"date": "2010-01-18T12:30:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The failure of the governing coalition in Chile to win Sunday's presidential election was as predictable as the forthcoming failure of the British Labour party to win re-election in the spring. It is rooted in similar causes: tedium, irritation and dissatisfaction on the part of the electorate, and division, incompetence and intellectual bankruptcy from the Concertaci\u00f3n alliance (of socialists and Christian Democrats) that has ruled the country since the overthrow of General Pinochet.Maybe the result will not be too bad for Chile, although it will have a baneful impact on Latin America, which had been moving in a more progressive direction in the past decade. Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, the new president, is a wealthy businessman but a political lightweight, and he will struggle to disassociate his government from its powerful Pinochetista supporters. The Uni\u00f3n Dem\u00f3crata Independiente, the current representative of the long-established fascist current in Chilean political life, is the largest party in the lower house of Congress, whereas the now-opposition Concertaci\u00f3n appears to have a majority of one in the Senate. Pi\u00f1era will have similar problems to those of the outgoing, nominally socialist president Michelle Bachelet, in securing support for his conservative programme. Bachelet was probably the most popular president in Chilean history, but her legislative achievements have been negligible. She was unable to transfer her own personal popularity to the Concertaci\u00f3n's losing candidate, the lacklustre former president Eduardo Frei.Pi\u00f1era's problem, aside from his congressional difficulties, is that he is an old-fashioned, not to say antediluvian supporter of the neoliberal economic model, in a world that is rapidly becoming aware of its limitations. Chile is often perceived by outsiders as an example of just how positive that model could be, yet in practice the growing discontent of large swaths of the population, reflected in the election result, is similar to that experienced in other Latin American countries \u2013 leading to popular explosions of rage that have brought about serious political change.Chile likes to think of itself as an exception in the Latin American context, but its underlying problems are not dissimilar: millions still in irreducible poverty amid gross scenes of capitalist excess, active and angry students who see their dreams of the future frustrated, enraged indigenous peoples whose lands and forests have been plundered, endemic and seemingly ineradicable corruption, and the survival of an ultra-conservative constitution, the poisoned legacy of General Pinochet.There is little in President Pi\u00f1era's background, nor in that of the ultra-rightwing political forces upon whom he will be forced to rely, to lead one to suppose that he will successfully tackle all, or indeed any of these problems. The progressive groups that make up the Concertaci\u00f3n, meanwhile, have four years in which to rethink, re-organise, and reconsider what the future holds. Faced with the resurgence of the implacable right, they may find that the Concertaci\u00f3n itself, which has served the country reasonably well in the post-Pinochet era, is no longer an adequate instrument for the 21st century. Something else will be needed.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "What next for Chile? | Richard Gott"},{"date": "2010-03-03T20:34:42Z", "country": "chile", "content": "With the death toll unchanged at about 800 and aid flowing to southern cities, Chile today began to assess the industrial and economic cost of its earthquake.After meeting business leaders, President Michelle Bachelet announced a grim summary of damaged industrial plants, ports and destroyed bridges. The cost could be as high as $30bn.The earthquake on Saturday destroyed major parts of Chile's central valley, home to many of the country's exports, ranging from fish meal to merlot. All major fishmeal and paper production operations were halted while plants were inspected.Southern ports were closed and inside dozens of bodegas, or wine stores, a river of wine soaked into the soil, raising concerns about damage to the industry. Initial estimates put the quantity of lost wine at 100m bottles, or roughly a sixth of the country's annual export. Antonio Larrain, general manager of the Chilean Wine Corporation, estimated that 20% of Chile's stored wine may have been lost. He calculated the value at $300m, which did not include the widespread damage to infrastructure ranging from underground irrigation tubing to warehouses.Wines of Chile, an industry group, held an emergency meeting today and announced that 12% of the country's wine production had been lost. Reports from individual wineries suggest that does not represent the true scale of the disaster. \"Many wineries that lost 80% of their production are publicly saying just 15% was lost,\" said one wine executive who asked not be named, citing the fear that distributors would terminate distribution contracts with wineries most heavily damaged. \"This is an incredibly touchy subject,\" he said.Grant Phelps, chief winemaker at the Casas del Bosque winery, said: \"The vineyards still have no electricity in Maule so they have not watered their vines since Saturday, so already we are talking five days. It is a hot time of year ... the fruit is going to raisin.\"Casas del Bosque, in the Casablanca Valley, close to Santiago, was not severely damaged and lost only an estimated 5,000 litres. Phelps said wineries further south were much worse off. \"These guys could not do anything as they had no [electrical] pumps [so] they had to watch it go down the drain.\"[On 5 March, after this story appeared, the UK director of Wines of Chile, Michael Cox, contacted the guardian to say that the figures of 125m litres lost, representing about 12.5% of stock, \"is an accurate assessment of the situation. The data was collated and assessed in a very robust way with contact being made with all the major wineries and companies\".]Chile's fruit industry is an important source of employment for the central valley: thousands of pickers flood into the region every March. With tonnes of apples shaken to the ground, roads and workers' housing destroyed, the fate of this year's harvest is unclear.Much of the damage in the wine industry came when big storage tanks \u2013 stainless steel vats 5m high \u2013 toppled over. Wine stored in barrels was also lost as they rolled off the racks, cracked open or popped their seals, flooding bodegas with merlots, carmeneres and cabernet sauvignon.\"These big stainless steel tanks crashed to the ground. Wine was on the floor, it was very hard to look at,\" said Pablo Morande Jr, of Morande wines. An estimated 2.5m litres of wine was lost, representing 10% of production, he said.With the harvest just under way, Chile's wineries are scrambling to find electrical generators to keep drip irrigation systems running. Centuries old irrigation canals that bring fresh water from the mountains have collapsed, with water spilling down the hillsides.A scramble to buy grapes is expected as top producers seek to guarantee enough raw material to fulfil future orders. Exporters in central Chile are looking at shipping produce over the Andes and using the port of Buenos Aires.\u2022 This article was amended on 5 March 2010 to include a response from Wines of Chile.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Chile earthquake hits wine industry"},{"date": "2010-02-27T22:25:56Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A huge earthquake has shaken Chile, killing more than 200 people, causing buildings to collapse, starting fires and unleashing a tsunami across the Pacific. With a magnitude of 8.8, it opened cracks in the earth, flipped cars and devastated the city of Concepci\u00f3n, 70 miles from the epicentre.The number of dead quickly rose to 214, and is expected to increase. David Miliband, the foreign secretary, last night said there was no information yet on British casualties.The Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, declared a \"state of catastrophe\" as emergency teams scrambled over rubble looking for survivors. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre issued an alert for countries in Latin America as well as Japan, Russia, the Philippines, Indonesia and French Polynesia. A massive wave hit Robinson Crusoe island, the largest of the Juan Fern\u00e1ndez archipelago, where at least three people were killed. Residents were evacuated from the coastal areas of Easter Island.Sirens sounded across Hawaii at 6am local time (4pm GMT)on Saturday . The island's beaches were cleared as people retreated to higher ground, and tourists were moved to the upper storeys of hotels. Residents rushed to buy supplies before driving inland.The US Geological Survey said the quake struck at a depth of 22\u00a0miles in the early hours of Saturday. It was much more powerful than the quake that devastated Haiti in January, but because it was deeper, and Chile's buildings are sturdier, there were fewer casualties.President Bachelet said: \"People should remain calm. We're doing everything we can with all the forces we have. Any information [we have] we will share immediately.\"The disaster was the strongest earthquake to hit Chile in 50 years and one of the strongest ever measured. The quake shook buildings in Buenos Aires, Argentina, and was felt as far away as S\u00e3o Paulo in Brazil \u2013 1,800 miles to the east.The historic town centre of Talca, just 65 miles from the epicentre, largely collapsed. The weakest buildings, made of adobe mud and straw, were mostly commercial premises and were not inhabited at the time. Neighbours pulled at least five people from the rubble.Collapsed roads and bridges complicated travel across the country. Electricity, water and phone lines were cut to many areas, so there was little word of casualties or damage from more remote areas. In Santiago, the capital, 200 miles north-east of the epicentre, a car dangled from a collapsed overpass; the national Fine Arts Museum was badly damaged, and an apartment building's two-storey parking lot had pancaked, smashing about 50 cars.Bachelet said that she had no information on the number of people injured. Chile had not asked for assistance from other countries. \"The system is functioning. People should remain calm. We're doing everything we can with all the forces we have,\" said the president.Powerful aftershocks shook the country's coastline. There were 29 of magnitude 5 or greater, and one reaching 6.9, the US Geological Survey reported.Modern buildings in Santiago have been built to withstand earthquakes, but many older ones were heavily damaged, including the Nuestra Se\u00f1ora de la Providencia church, where the bell tower had collapsed. A bridge just outside the capital also collapsed, and at least one car was turned upside down. Several hospitals were evacuated after being damaged, Bachelet said.Santiago's airport will remain closed for at least 24 hours after the passenger terminal suffered major damage, airport director Eduardo del Canto told Chilean television. Television images showed smashed windows, partially collapsed ceilings and deserted pedestrian walkways at the airport. Santiago's subway network was closed, and hundreds of buses were trapped at a terminal by a damaged bridge.In Concepci\u00f3n, Chile's second largest city, which lies 70 miles from the epicentre, nurses and residents pushed the injured through the streets on stretchers. Others walked around in a daze wrapped in blankets, some carrying infants in their arms. A 15-storey building collapsed, leaving only a few floors intact.\"I was on the eighth floor and all of a sudden I was down here,\" said Fernando Abarzua, marvelling that he had escaped with no major injuries. He said a relative was still trapped in the rubble six hours after the quake, \"but he keeps shouting, saying he's OK\", he said.Marco Vidal, a tour director for Grand Circle Travel, who was travelling with a group of 34 Americans, was on the 19th floor of the Crowne Plaza hotel in Santiago when the quake struck. \"All the things started to fall. The lamps, everything, was going on the floor,\" he said. \"I felt terrified.\"Cynthia Iocono, from Linwood, Pennsylvania, first thought the quake was a train. \"But then I thought: 'Oh, there's no train here.' And then the lamps flew off the dresser and my TV flew off on to the floor and crashed.\"The earthquake struck after concert-goers had left South America's leading music festival in the coastal city of Vi\u00f1a del Mar, but it caught party-goers leaving a club. \"It was very bad. People were screaming. Some people were running, others appeared paralysed. I was one of them,\" said one witness.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Tsunami alert after Chile earthquake"},{"date": "2010-02-27T14:37:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A massive earthquake with a magnitude of 8.8 has struck central Chile, killing at least 85 people and triggering a tsunami.The tremor shook the capital, Santiago, for a minute and a half early this morning, bringing down telephone and power lines. The Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, said there were more than 85 deaths just in the Maule region at the quake's epicentre, and that more were possible.Declaring a \"state of catastrophe\" in central Chile, Bachelet said: \"We have had a huge earthquake with some aftershocks. We're doing everything we can with all the forces we have. Any information we will share immediately. Without a doubt, with an earthquake of this magnitude, there will be more deaths.\"Chile's interior minister, Edmundo Perez Yoma, said: \"It has been a devastating earthquake. The death toll will continue rising.\"Santiago's international airport was forced to close, a highway bridge collapsed and rubble from damaged buildings fell on to the streets. Speaking to a local television station in Temuco, one witness said: \"Never in my life have I experienced a quake like this, it's like the end of the world.\"A huge wave reached a populated area in the Robinson Crusoe Islands, off the Chilean coast, and warnings of tidal waves were issued in 53 other countries. The Pacific tsunami warning centre said the quake generated a wave that could cause destruction along nearby shores \"and could also be a threat to more distant coasts\". It issued a tsunami warning for Chile, Peru and Hawaii, while Ecuador, Colombia, Panama, Costa Rica and Antarctica are also on alert.The centre warned that waves up to 4.8 metres high could hit the coasts of all the Hawaiian islands, with the first reaching Hawaii at 9pm GMT. \"Urgent action should be taken to protect lives and property,\" the centre said in a bulletin. \"All shores are at risk no matter which direction they face.\"The centre said the first waves after a quake were not necessarily the largest, and wave heights were difficult to predict because they can vary significantly along a coast due to the local topography.Chile's navy said officials had lifted the tsunami warning in southern Chile, local radio reported. The Joint Australian tsunami warning centre warned of a \"potential tsunami threat\" to the states of New South Wales and Queensland, Lord Howe Island and Norfolk Island.The quake was centred 200 miles south-west of Santiago at a depth of 22 miles, according to the US Geological Survey. It reported 11 aftershocks, five of them measuring 6.0 or above, in the two and a half hours following the quake.It warned that an earthquake of magnitude 8 or above could cause \"tremendous damage\". The quake that devastated Haiti's capital, Port-au-Prince, in January was magnitude 7.0.The quake shook buildings as far away as Argentina. A series of strong aftershocks rocked Chile's coast, from Valdivia in the south to Valparaiso 500 miles to the north. The epicentre was 70 miles from Concepcion, Chile's second largest city, with a population of about 670,000.Chile is at a high risk of earthquakes because it lies on the boundary between the Pacific and South American tectonic plates. According to seismologists, there is usually about one quake of magnitude eight or more a year, and one reaching 8.8 would be expected only every few years.Dr David Rothery, senior lecturer at the Open University's department of earth and environmental sciences, said the tsunami was \"now radiating away from the epicentre and travelling at several hundred km per hour across the Pacific ocean\".Dr Brian Baptie, of the British Geological Survey, said: \"In global terms this is a very rare quake. Chile has experienced some very big quakes in the past. It was about 124 miles north-east of the largest earthquake ever recorded \u2013 9.5, in 1960 \u2013 which resulted in a destructive tsunami that killed many thousands of people around the Pacific.\"He said a 1.3-metre tsunami wave was observed at Valparaiso about 20 minutes after the earthquake. \"Tsunami waves in the deep ocean travel about the same speed as a jet plane and would take about 15 hours to reach Hawaii and about 20 hours to reach the other side of the Pacific,\" he said.The largest earthquake ever recorded struck the same area of Chile on 22 May 1960. The magnitude-9.5 quake killed 1,655 people and left 2 million homeless, and caused a tsunami that killed people in Hawaii, Japan and the Philippines.That tsunami was about one to four metres in height, according to Japan's meteorological agency. It said the tsunami from today's quake was likely to be much smaller.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Deadly earthquake hits central Chile"},{"date": "2010-03-08T08:05:53Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Looters who stripped houses and shops after the earthquake in Chile have scrambled to get rid of the goods in the wake of a police crackdown and nationwide revulsion at their opportunism.Streets in Concepci\u00f3n, one of the towns hit hardest by the 27 February quake, filled over the weekend with fridges, televisions, toys, bicycles, mattresses and sofas during a brief amnesty.Some analysts said it was because a \"psychosis\" that afflicted pillagers had lifted, while others attributed it to the arrest of 20 looters and warnings of further police sweeps, with those convicted facing from two to five years in jail.It took 35 lorries to recover the looted goods, which police estimated was worth nearly $2m (\u00a31.3m). The president, Michelle Bachelet, who yesterday toured a police gymnasium full of recovered goods, called the plundering one of \"the other aftershocks of this tragic earthquake\".Those responsible would be prosecuted, she said.\"These are items that have nothing to do with survival. They reflect the moral damage of the people, some of whom came just to find things they could make money from.\"Traders who raised prices to exploit desperation in the disaster area also faced prosecution.The 8.8-magnitude quake was one of the most powerful recorded, devastating parts of central Chile and sending tsunamis crashing into coastal villages, killing more than 450 people.Amid the chaos, power cuts, and food and water shortages some communities started ransacking shops for emergency supplies. That snowballed into a scramble for all types of goods, in houses as well as shops. Homeowners armed themselves with clubs and swords and burned tyres to protect their property.Scenes of entire families \u2013 from children to grandparents \u2013 hauling away loot shocked a country that considered itself South America's most orderly, sophisticated nation.\"It was a collective psychosis. They didn't intend to do harm,\" Humberto Cifuentes, 53, a heavy machinery repairman, told Reuters news agency as police officers collected items left on the street in front of his home. \"One person went out to steal, and then everyone followed. This was not done out of necessity. I can't explain it. It was unjustified.\"Explanations that extreme inequality made the disaster an irresistible opportunity for the poor failed to impress most Chileans: a poll found 85% wanted the looters prosecuted.Aran Fuentes, a city worker, lamented the damage to Chile's reputation. \"After all we have done for other countries, to present ourselves to the rest of the world as looters really hurts.\"A telethon for quake victims on Saturday restored a measure of pride and sense of solidarity by raising $58m, double the target sum. Reconstruction will cost an estimated $12bn to $30bn.A poll by el Mercurio newspaper found 72% believed the government had responded late and inefficiently. Almost half of respondents said Bachelet, a moderate leftist who suffered under Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship, had waited too long to deploy troops because she did not want soldiers patrolling streets for the first time in two decades.Some emergency response veterans, by contrast, praise the government for swiftly patching up crucial infrastructure and delivering huge quantities of aid to many \u2013 though not all \u2013 stricken areas.Ban Ki-moon, the UN secretary-general, visited Concepci\u00f3n, where doctors warned of disease and health hazards from debris and lack of clean water. \"Remember that we are with you ... our hearts are with you,\" Ban said.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Chile looters rush to dump stolen goods"},{"date": "2010-09-11T11:00:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Of the many military coups faced by the republics of Latin America, it is the coup of 11 September 1973 that has engraved itself most permanently on the collective memory. The images of the bombing of the Moneda Palace, of the despair on the face of Salvador Allende shortly before his suicide, of the defiant expression worn by Pinochet behind his dark glasses and of the public burning of books that circulated around the world and became the symbol of military brutality.The dispersal into exile of 200,000 Chileans, most of them to Europe, added to the media images of men and women who had seen their lives destroyed by the death or disappearance of friends and relatives. The murder of thousands of political opponents and the detention and torture of people who were identified with the constitutional government isolated the military regime internationally.The coup was supported by the US government of Richard Nixon. But after 1977, the Carter administration distanced itself from Pinochet because of his repeated violation of human rights. The regime remained in power for 16 years, becoming one of the longest lasting military dictatorships in Latin America, and it almost certainly introduced more changes than in any other country. Economic policy took a radical neoliberal turn under the influence of Milton Friedman. Allende's nationalisations were reversed and a programme of privatisations was introduced, together with the elimination of tariff barriers; this, alongside the banning of trade unions, produced a dramatic fall in real wages and an equally dramatic increase in business profits.During Pinochet's time there was a massive influx of foreign capital, which produced both significant economic growth and widening inequalities, most notably during the crisis of 1983 when unemployment reached 30% and 55% of the population fell below the poverty line. Despite all this, it could be said that the dictatorship was successful in economic terms, reversing the balance of social forces in favour of a business sector that enjoyed the unequivocal support of the state, for example in the forestry sector.Although it defended the neoliberal ideas of the Chicago School, the military government did not privatise the copper mines. In 1976 it created the National Copper Corporation (Codelco), which merged the nationalised mining companies and became the world's largest copper producer. In 1987 it drove through a copper law, which diverted 10% of copper exports to the armed forces budget.The armed forces thus became a powerful force with a capacity to exert pressure on society and the state. None of the governments that were elected after the restoration of democracy in 1990 were able to change that legislation, which made Chile's armed forces the second most powerful in the region after Brazil, with the highest military spending as a proportion of GDP (according to the Military Power Review).The legacy of 11 September 1973 goes far beyond the economy and the armed forces. The dictatorship's most devastating long-term effects are in education and the question of the Mapuches, Chile's southern indigenous people. Pinochet pushed through the education law just four days before leaving power; it placed the responsibility for education in the hands of the private sector at the same time as allowing complete freedom to create educational centres. The result was the deterioration of the quality of education, while making it prohibitively expensive. Working class people now struggle to get into university and have to make do with municipal secondary colleges \u2013 in other words, a second class education. In 2006 the so-called Penguins movement (thus named because of their school uniform) mobilised half a million school students in support of the de-privatisation of education and the rescinding of the law.The case of the Mapuches is even more serious, since it affects a population of over a million people who have lost their land and whose civic rights are restricted. When the Mapuches have in the past taken collective action, the anti-terrorist laws sanctioned by Pinochet have been used against them.Young Chileans are not interested in politics in the way their parents and grandparents were: 95% of 20-year-olds do not vote. They know they cannot change the world by taking up arms or achieving victories at the polls and they have no faith in professional politicians. Yet neither are they happy with the current situation. Perhaps that explains why there are in Chile hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of small groups devoted to cultural and social activities that can affect the immediate situation. It is, now, politics in a different form.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Chile: the other 9/11 anniversary | Ra\u00fal Zibechi"},{"date": "2010-09-11T11:00:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Of the many military coups faced by the republics of Latin America, it is the coup of 11 September 1973 that has engraved itself most permanently on the collective memory. The images of the bombing of the Moneda Palace, of the despair on the face of Salvador Allende shortly before his suicide, of the defiant expression worn by Pinochet behind his dark glasses and of the public burning of books that circulated around the world and became the symbol of military brutality.The dispersal into exile of 200,000 Chileans, most of them to Europe, added to the media images of men and women who had seen their lives destroyed by the death or disappearance of friends and relatives. The murder of thousands of political opponents and the detention and torture of people who were identified with the constitutional government isolated the military regime internationally.The coup was supported by the US government of Richard Nixon. But after 1977, the Carter administration distanced itself from Pinochet because of his repeated violation of human rights. The regime remained in power for 16 years, becoming one of the longest lasting military dictatorships in Latin America, and it almost certainly introduced more changes than in any other country. Economic policy took a radical neoliberal turn under the influence of Milton Friedman. Allende's nationalisations were reversed and a programme of privatisations was introduced, together with the elimination of tariff barriers; this, alongside the banning of trade unions, produced a dramatic fall in real wages and an equally dramatic increase in business profits.During Pinochet's time there was a massive influx of foreign capital, which produced both significant economic growth and widening inequalities, most notably during the crisis of 1983 when unemployment reached 30% and 55% of the population fell below the poverty line. Despite all this, it could be said that the dictatorship was successful in economic terms, reversing the balance of social forces in favour of a business sector that enjoyed the unequivocal support of the state, for example in the forestry sector.Although it defended the neoliberal ideas of the Chicago School, the military government did not privatise the copper mines. In 1976 it created the National Copper Corporation (Codelco), which merged the nationalised mining companies and became the world's largest copper producer. In 1987 it drove through a copper law, which diverted 10% of copper exports to the armed forces budget.The armed forces thus became a powerful force with a capacity to exert pressure on society and the state. None of the governments that were elected after the restoration of democracy in 1990 were able to change that legislation, which made Chile's armed forces the second most powerful in the region after Brazil, with the highest military spending as a proportion of GDP (according to the Military Power Review).The legacy of 11 September 1973 goes far beyond the economy and the armed forces. The dictatorship's most devastating long-term effects are in education and the question of the Mapuches, Chile's southern indigenous people. Pinochet pushed through the education law just four days before leaving power; it placed the responsibility for education in the hands of the private sector at the same time as allowing complete freedom to create educational centres. The result was the deterioration of the quality of education, while making it prohibitively expensive. Working class people now struggle to get into university and have to make do with municipal secondary colleges \u2013 in other words, a second class education. In 2006 the so-called Penguins movement (thus named because of their school uniform) mobilised half a million school students in support of the de-privatisation of education and the rescinding of the law.The case of the Mapuches is even more serious, since it affects a population of over a million people who have lost their land and whose civic rights are restricted. When the Mapuches have in the past taken collective action, the anti-terrorist laws sanctioned by Pinochet have been used against them.Young Chileans are not interested in politics in the way their parents and grandparents were: 95% of 20-year-olds do not vote. They know they cannot change the world by taking up arms or achieving victories at the polls and they have no faith in professional politicians. Yet neither are they happy with the current situation. Perhaps that explains why there are in Chile hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of small groups devoted to cultural and social activities that can affect the immediate situation. It is, now, politics in a different form.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Chile: the other 9/11 anniversary | Ra\u00fal Zibechi"},{"date": "2010-07-09T23:05:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "]The horse I hired was knackered and nameless, the chicha apple brew knocked me sideways, and I caught scabies in a cheap hotel. But I remember my week in Chilo\u00e9 as one of the happiest of my life. After the buzz of the South American mainland, I found on these Pacific islands a temperate wilderness of misty pastures, 3,000-year-old alerce forest, and a very particular people who cherish their geographical isolation.Two-thirds of the way down Chile's long, rugged coastline, the 40 or so small islands of Chilo\u00e9 are seldom visited by the mainland population. The archipelago is celebrated for its damp climate and high rainfall (residents of the capital Santiago make jokes about Chilot\u00e9s having webbed feet). But I was lucky. The sun shone for seven days. One afternoon, on the north coast of Isla Grande de Chilo\u00e9, the largest island in the group, the horse and I stopped at Ancud Bay. He stamped his arthritic legs while I watched flocks of oyster catchers and silvery grebe skimming the shallows. On the Patagonian horizon to the east, Andean volcanoes stood flat against an enamelled sky.\"We are not Chilean,\" a farmer's wife told me at Ancud market. \"Estamos Chilote, no mas.\" There was no nod to the Americanised cuisine of Santiago. For the entire week I lived off milcao, grated potato patties cooked in pork fat. Heaven.I didn't do much \u2013 just rode between flophouses of the $1-a-night variety, and drank chicha, the robust cider much loved in the interior. (It took my mind off the itching.) The plots of subsistence farmers harlequinned the land. Single churns were left to be collected at the end of lanes. The peaty light of fuchsia thickets and woodland held a stillness that had vanished from the mainland.Mountains wall off the exposed west coast of Isla Grande, a re-emergence of the coastal cordillera of Chile which sinks into the ocean somewhere south of Santiago. At Duhatoa, the last beach before the road ran out, the horse and I trekked along the dromedary line of the dunes, beyond bamboo-like quila stands where nature outdid itself in elaborate fructification. But down in the unpeopled south-west, industrial logging was making deadly inroads into old-growth forest.For 200 years, Chilo\u00e9 marked the southern frontier of Catholicism. When the first conquistadores canoed across from the South American mainland in the third quarter of the 16th century, 400 horses swam alongside them. Their legacy (the Spaniards', not the horses') survives in 100 wooden churches carved by the golden hands of Chilot\u00e9 craftsmen. The best carpenters were boat-builders, with the result that many churches look like upturned boats. At Colo, a village of three families, I sat on the low church wall to eat another chunk of pork fat. A pair of oxen swayed past drawing a sledge piled with timber. They were heading to the boat-building yard at Montmar. The ox driver sat next to me on the wall. He was 83.\"I suppose you've seen a lot of changes,\" I said, after we had chatted for a few minutes.He thought for a while. \"No tanto,\" he said \u2013 not so many.\u2022 Last Frontiers (01296 653000) offers a seven-day trip to Chilo\u00e9 from \u00a32,147 per person. The price includes internal and international flights, a night in Santiago, a visit to a penguin colony, a boat/kayak trip through a \"sunken forest\", accommodation in a family farmhouse and a stilt village hotel, all activities and most meals Sara Wheeler's latest book, The Magnetic North: Travels in the Arctic (Vintage, \u00a38.99), is out now", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "My travels: Sara Wheeler in Chile"},{"date": "2010-09-11T11:00:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Of the many military coups faced by the republics of Latin America, it is the coup of 11 September 1973 that has engraved itself most permanently on the collective memory. The images of the bombing of the Moneda Palace, of the despair on the face of Salvador Allende shortly before his suicide, of the defiant expression worn by Pinochet behind his dark glasses and of the public burning of books that circulated around the world and became the symbol of military brutality.The dispersal into exile of 200,000 Chileans, most of them to Europe, added to the media images of men and women who had seen their lives destroyed by the death or disappearance of friends and relatives. The murder of thousands of political opponents and the detention and torture of people who were identified with the constitutional government isolated the military regime internationally.The coup was supported by the US government of Richard Nixon. But after 1977, the Carter administration distanced itself from Pinochet because of his repeated violation of human rights. The regime remained in power for 16 years, becoming one of the longest lasting military dictatorships in Latin America, and it almost certainly introduced more changes than in any other country. Economic policy took a radical neoliberal turn under the influence of Milton Friedman. Allende's nationalisations were reversed and a programme of privatisations was introduced, together with the elimination of tariff barriers; this, alongside the banning of trade unions, produced a dramatic fall in real wages and an equally dramatic increase in business profits.During Pinochet's time there was a massive influx of foreign capital, which produced both significant economic growth and widening inequalities, most notably during the crisis of 1983 when unemployment reached 30% and 55% of the population fell below the poverty line. Despite all this, it could be said that the dictatorship was successful in economic terms, reversing the balance of social forces in favour of a business sector that enjoyed the unequivocal support of the state, for example in the forestry sector.Although it defended the neoliberal ideas of the Chicago School, the military government did not privatise the copper mines. In 1976 it created the National Copper Corporation (Codelco), which merged the nationalised mining companies and became the world's largest copper producer. In 1987 it drove through a copper law, which diverted 10% of copper exports to the armed forces budget.The armed forces thus became a powerful force with a capacity to exert pressure on society and the state. None of the governments that were elected after the restoration of democracy in 1990 were able to change that legislation, which made Chile's armed forces the second most powerful in the region after Brazil, with the highest military spending as a proportion of GDP (according to the Military Power Review).The legacy of 11 September 1973 goes far beyond the economy and the armed forces. The dictatorship's most devastating long-term effects are in education and the question of the Mapuches, Chile's southern indigenous people. Pinochet pushed through the education law just four days before leaving power; it placed the responsibility for education in the hands of the private sector at the same time as allowing complete freedom to create educational centres. The result was the deterioration of the quality of education, while making it prohibitively expensive. Working class people now struggle to get into university and have to make do with municipal secondary colleges \u2013 in other words, a second class education. In 2006 the so-called Penguins movement (thus named because of their school uniform) mobilised half a million school students in support of the de-privatisation of education and the rescinding of the law.The case of the Mapuches is even more serious, since it affects a population of over a million people who have lost their land and whose civic rights are restricted. When the Mapuches have in the past taken collective action, the anti-terrorist laws sanctioned by Pinochet have been used against them.Young Chileans are not interested in politics in the way their parents and grandparents were: 95% of 20-year-olds do not vote. They know they cannot change the world by taking up arms or achieving victories at the polls and they have no faith in professional politicians. Yet neither are they happy with the current situation. Perhaps that explains why there are in Chile hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of small groups devoted to cultural and social activities that can affect the immediate situation. It is, now, politics in a different form.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Chile: the other 9/11 anniversary | Ra\u00fal Zibechi"},{"date": "2010-07-09T23:05:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "]The horse I hired was knackered and nameless, the chicha apple brew knocked me sideways, and I caught scabies in a cheap hotel. But I remember my week in Chilo\u00e9 as one of the happiest of my life. After the buzz of the South American mainland, I found on these Pacific islands a temperate wilderness of misty pastures, 3,000-year-old alerce forest, and a very particular people who cherish their geographical isolation.Two-thirds of the way down Chile's long, rugged coastline, the 40 or so small islands of Chilo\u00e9 are seldom visited by the mainland population. The archipelago is celebrated for its damp climate and high rainfall (residents of the capital Santiago make jokes about Chilot\u00e9s having webbed feet). But I was lucky. The sun shone for seven days. One afternoon, on the north coast of Isla Grande de Chilo\u00e9, the largest island in the group, the horse and I stopped at Ancud Bay. He stamped his arthritic legs while I watched flocks of oyster catchers and silvery grebe skimming the shallows. On the Patagonian horizon to the east, Andean volcanoes stood flat against an enamelled sky.\"We are not Chilean,\" a farmer's wife told me at Ancud market. \"Estamos Chilote, no mas.\" There was no nod to the Americanised cuisine of Santiago. For the entire week I lived off milcao, grated potato patties cooked in pork fat. Heaven.I didn't do much \u2013 just rode between flophouses of the $1-a-night variety, and drank chicha, the robust cider much loved in the interior. (It took my mind off the itching.) The plots of subsistence farmers harlequinned the land. Single churns were left to be collected at the end of lanes. The peaty light of fuchsia thickets and woodland held a stillness that had vanished from the mainland.Mountains wall off the exposed west coast of Isla Grande, a re-emergence of the coastal cordillera of Chile which sinks into the ocean somewhere south of Santiago. At Duhatoa, the last beach before the road ran out, the horse and I trekked along the dromedary line of the dunes, beyond bamboo-like quila stands where nature outdid itself in elaborate fructification. But down in the unpeopled south-west, industrial logging was making deadly inroads into old-growth forest.For 200 years, Chilo\u00e9 marked the southern frontier of Catholicism. When the first conquistadores canoed across from the South American mainland in the third quarter of the 16th century, 400 horses swam alongside them. Their legacy (the Spaniards', not the horses') survives in 100 wooden churches carved by the golden hands of Chilot\u00e9 craftsmen. The best carpenters were boat-builders, with the result that many churches look like upturned boats. At Colo, a village of three families, I sat on the low church wall to eat another chunk of pork fat. A pair of oxen swayed past drawing a sledge piled with timber. They were heading to the boat-building yard at Montmar. The ox driver sat next to me on the wall. He was 83.\"I suppose you've seen a lot of changes,\" I said, after we had chatted for a few minutes.He thought for a while. \"No tanto,\" he said \u2013 not so many.\u2022 Last Frontiers (01296 653000) offers a seven-day trip to Chilo\u00e9 from \u00a32,147 per person. The price includes internal and international flights, a night in Santiago, a visit to a penguin colony, a boat/kayak trip through a \"sunken forest\", accommodation in a family farmhouse and a stilt village hotel, all activities and most meals Sara Wheeler's latest book, The Magnetic North: Travels in the Arctic (Vintage, \u00a38.99), is out now", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "My travels: Sara Wheeler in Chile"},{"date": "2010-09-01T19:54:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The 33 trapped Chilean miners were today delivered their first hot meals in nearly a month, as a debate broke out over how much information should be shared with the men before they are rescued.The first delivery of hot food \u2013 rice with meatballs \u2013 and cheese sandwiches was a sign that efforts to improve the men's living conditions 700 metres inside the San Jose mine are gradually bearing fruit.Rescue crews have promised that the trapped men will remain on a daily diet of about 2,500 calories, but at the rescue headquarters at the mine head, a fierce debate has begun over communication between the men and the outside world.Government psychologists are helping family members craft letters to the men in an effort to avoid upsetting them with any bad news from home. Newspapers sent to the men are allegedly censored, with disturbing crime stories removed.Government health officials are undecided over what movies the men should be shown on a video projector which was lowered into the shelter last week.\"They have told us to not ask any questions to the men in our letters,\" said Carolina Lobos, 26, daughter of trapped miner Franklin Lobos. \"We are supposed to write in a positive way that will bring them up.\"But Professor Nick Kanas, who has studied for over a decade the impact distance and isolation has on astronauts, and is co-author of Space Psychology and Psychiatry, warned that censoring the men's letters could create a climate of mistrust and suspicion between them and their rescuers: \"I would not screen anything; if you start to do that you are setting up a base for mistrust. The miners will then ask, 'What else are they hiding from me?'\"As Chile nears its national bicentennial, aides to President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era are looking for ways to include the miners in the national celebration. \"The whole nation will sing the national anthem at noon on the [September] 18th,\" said Ena Von Baer, a spokeswoman for the president. Asked whether that included the trapped miners, Van Baer said, \"When I say all Chileans, I mean every Chilean.\"\"That sounds tricky,\" said Kanas. \"It would be good in that it will link the miners to the surface and they will feel they are part of a celebration. But care should be given that the miners do not feel used by anyone else for their own advantage, that will not work very well.\"A poll released on Wednesday showed Pi\u00f1era's approval rating has jumped 10 points to 56% since the mining drama began nearly a month ago. Throughout the rescue operation, Pi\u00f1era has taken centre stage, positioning himself as the hard-nosed executive who will spare no cost to save the lives of his countrymen.Information about the miners' health has been released to the public, including a controversial statement by Jaime Manalich, the Chilean minister of health, who diagnosed five of the men as suffering from depression, then the next day announced they had been cured.\"That is probably not such a good idea,\" said Lawrence Palinkas, a medical anthropologist and professor of social policy and health at the University of Southern California, when asked about making the depression diagnosis public. \"These diagnoses carry a certain stigma \u2026 and the miners have no control over the conditions which caused this \u2013 which makes it all the more important that the government protect confidentiality.\"The selective release of video footage of the men has raised the question of how the Chilean government seeks to both help the miners while also shaping the perceptions of a worldwide audience.The latest video of the miners, a brief take with no audio released, showing the men in clean red shirts, many having had a fresh shave, was in stark contrast to the dirty and tired faces seen last week.", "tags": ["Chile", "Mining", "Business", "World news", "Environment", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile rescuers divided over how much to tell trapped miners"},{"date": "2010-09-11T11:00:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Of the many military coups faced by the republics of Latin America, it is the coup of 11 September 1973 that has engraved itself most permanently on the collective memory. The images of the bombing of the Moneda Palace, of the despair on the face of Salvador Allende shortly before his suicide, of the defiant expression worn by Pinochet behind his dark glasses and of the public burning of books that circulated around the world and became the symbol of military brutality.The dispersal into exile of 200,000 Chileans, most of them to Europe, added to the media images of men and women who had seen their lives destroyed by the death or disappearance of friends and relatives. The murder of thousands of political opponents and the detention and torture of people who were identified with the constitutional government isolated the military regime internationally.The coup was supported by the US government of Richard Nixon. But after 1977, the Carter administration distanced itself from Pinochet because of his repeated violation of human rights. The regime remained in power for 16 years, becoming one of the longest lasting military dictatorships in Latin America, and it almost certainly introduced more changes than in any other country. Economic policy took a radical neoliberal turn under the influence of Milton Friedman. Allende's nationalisations were reversed and a programme of privatisations was introduced, together with the elimination of tariff barriers; this, alongside the banning of trade unions, produced a dramatic fall in real wages and an equally dramatic increase in business profits.During Pinochet's time there was a massive influx of foreign capital, which produced both significant economic growth and widening inequalities, most notably during the crisis of 1983 when unemployment reached 30% and 55% of the population fell below the poverty line. Despite all this, it could be said that the dictatorship was successful in economic terms, reversing the balance of social forces in favour of a business sector that enjoyed the unequivocal support of the state, for example in the forestry sector.Although it defended the neoliberal ideas of the Chicago School, the military government did not privatise the copper mines. In 1976 it created the National Copper Corporation (Codelco), which merged the nationalised mining companies and became the world's largest copper producer. In 1987 it drove through a copper law, which diverted 10% of copper exports to the armed forces budget.The armed forces thus became a powerful force with a capacity to exert pressure on society and the state. None of the governments that were elected after the restoration of democracy in 1990 were able to change that legislation, which made Chile's armed forces the second most powerful in the region after Brazil, with the highest military spending as a proportion of GDP (according to the Military Power Review).The legacy of 11 September 1973 goes far beyond the economy and the armed forces. The dictatorship's most devastating long-term effects are in education and the question of the Mapuches, Chile's southern indigenous people. Pinochet pushed through the education law just four days before leaving power; it placed the responsibility for education in the hands of the private sector at the same time as allowing complete freedom to create educational centres. The result was the deterioration of the quality of education, while making it prohibitively expensive. Working class people now struggle to get into university and have to make do with municipal secondary colleges \u2013 in other words, a second class education. In 2006 the so-called Penguins movement (thus named because of their school uniform) mobilised half a million school students in support of the de-privatisation of education and the rescinding of the law.The case of the Mapuches is even more serious, since it affects a population of over a million people who have lost their land and whose civic rights are restricted. When the Mapuches have in the past taken collective action, the anti-terrorist laws sanctioned by Pinochet have been used against them.Young Chileans are not interested in politics in the way their parents and grandparents were: 95% of 20-year-olds do not vote. They know they cannot change the world by taking up arms or achieving victories at the polls and they have no faith in professional politicians. Yet neither are they happy with the current situation. Perhaps that explains why there are in Chile hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of small groups devoted to cultural and social activities that can affect the immediate situation. It is, now, politics in a different form.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Chile: the other 9/11 anniversary | Ra\u00fal Zibechi"},{"date": "2010-07-09T23:05:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "]The horse I hired was knackered and nameless, the chicha apple brew knocked me sideways, and I caught scabies in a cheap hotel. But I remember my week in Chilo\u00e9 as one of the happiest of my life. After the buzz of the South American mainland, I found on these Pacific islands a temperate wilderness of misty pastures, 3,000-year-old alerce forest, and a very particular people who cherish their geographical isolation.Two-thirds of the way down Chile's long, rugged coastline, the 40 or so small islands of Chilo\u00e9 are seldom visited by the mainland population. The archipelago is celebrated for its damp climate and high rainfall (residents of the capital Santiago make jokes about Chilot\u00e9s having webbed feet). But I was lucky. The sun shone for seven days. One afternoon, on the north coast of Isla Grande de Chilo\u00e9, the largest island in the group, the horse and I stopped at Ancud Bay. He stamped his arthritic legs while I watched flocks of oyster catchers and silvery grebe skimming the shallows. On the Patagonian horizon to the east, Andean volcanoes stood flat against an enamelled sky.\"We are not Chilean,\" a farmer's wife told me at Ancud market. \"Estamos Chilote, no mas.\" There was no nod to the Americanised cuisine of Santiago. For the entire week I lived off milcao, grated potato patties cooked in pork fat. Heaven.I didn't do much \u2013 just rode between flophouses of the $1-a-night variety, and drank chicha, the robust cider much loved in the interior. (It took my mind off the itching.) The plots of subsistence farmers harlequinned the land. Single churns were left to be collected at the end of lanes. The peaty light of fuchsia thickets and woodland held a stillness that had vanished from the mainland.Mountains wall off the exposed west coast of Isla Grande, a re-emergence of the coastal cordillera of Chile which sinks into the ocean somewhere south of Santiago. At Duhatoa, the last beach before the road ran out, the horse and I trekked along the dromedary line of the dunes, beyond bamboo-like quila stands where nature outdid itself in elaborate fructification. But down in the unpeopled south-west, industrial logging was making deadly inroads into old-growth forest.For 200 years, Chilo\u00e9 marked the southern frontier of Catholicism. When the first conquistadores canoed across from the South American mainland in the third quarter of the 16th century, 400 horses swam alongside them. Their legacy (the Spaniards', not the horses') survives in 100 wooden churches carved by the golden hands of Chilot\u00e9 craftsmen. The best carpenters were boat-builders, with the result that many churches look like upturned boats. At Colo, a village of three families, I sat on the low church wall to eat another chunk of pork fat. A pair of oxen swayed past drawing a sledge piled with timber. They were heading to the boat-building yard at Montmar. The ox driver sat next to me on the wall. He was 83.\"I suppose you've seen a lot of changes,\" I said, after we had chatted for a few minutes.He thought for a while. \"No tanto,\" he said \u2013 not so many.\u2022 Last Frontiers (01296 653000) offers a seven-day trip to Chilo\u00e9 from \u00a32,147 per person. The price includes internal and international flights, a night in Santiago, a visit to a penguin colony, a boat/kayak trip through a \"sunken forest\", accommodation in a family farmhouse and a stilt village hotel, all activities and most meals Sara Wheeler's latest book, The Magnetic North: Travels in the Arctic (Vintage, \u00a38.99), is out now", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "My travels: Sara Wheeler in Chile"},{"date": "2010-09-01T19:54:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The 33 trapped Chilean miners were today delivered their first hot meals in nearly a month, as a debate broke out over how much information should be shared with the men before they are rescued.The first delivery of hot food \u2013 rice with meatballs \u2013 and cheese sandwiches was a sign that efforts to improve the men's living conditions 700 metres inside the San Jose mine are gradually bearing fruit.Rescue crews have promised that the trapped men will remain on a daily diet of about 2,500 calories, but at the rescue headquarters at the mine head, a fierce debate has begun over communication between the men and the outside world.Government psychologists are helping family members craft letters to the men in an effort to avoid upsetting them with any bad news from home. Newspapers sent to the men are allegedly censored, with disturbing crime stories removed.Government health officials are undecided over what movies the men should be shown on a video projector which was lowered into the shelter last week.\"They have told us to not ask any questions to the men in our letters,\" said Carolina Lobos, 26, daughter of trapped miner Franklin Lobos. \"We are supposed to write in a positive way that will bring them up.\"But Professor Nick Kanas, who has studied for over a decade the impact distance and isolation has on astronauts, and is co-author of Space Psychology and Psychiatry, warned that censoring the men's letters could create a climate of mistrust and suspicion between them and their rescuers: \"I would not screen anything; if you start to do that you are setting up a base for mistrust. The miners will then ask, 'What else are they hiding from me?'\"As Chile nears its national bicentennial, aides to President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era are looking for ways to include the miners in the national celebration. \"The whole nation will sing the national anthem at noon on the [September] 18th,\" said Ena Von Baer, a spokeswoman for the president. Asked whether that included the trapped miners, Van Baer said, \"When I say all Chileans, I mean every Chilean.\"\"That sounds tricky,\" said Kanas. \"It would be good in that it will link the miners to the surface and they will feel they are part of a celebration. But care should be given that the miners do not feel used by anyone else for their own advantage, that will not work very well.\"A poll released on Wednesday showed Pi\u00f1era's approval rating has jumped 10 points to 56% since the mining drama began nearly a month ago. Throughout the rescue operation, Pi\u00f1era has taken centre stage, positioning himself as the hard-nosed executive who will spare no cost to save the lives of his countrymen.Information about the miners' health has been released to the public, including a controversial statement by Jaime Manalich, the Chilean minister of health, who diagnosed five of the men as suffering from depression, then the next day announced they had been cured.\"That is probably not such a good idea,\" said Lawrence Palinkas, a medical anthropologist and professor of social policy and health at the University of Southern California, when asked about making the depression diagnosis public. \"These diagnoses carry a certain stigma \u2026 and the miners have no control over the conditions which caused this \u2013 which makes it all the more important that the government protect confidentiality.\"The selective release of video footage of the men has raised the question of how the Chilean government seeks to both help the miners while also shaping the perceptions of a worldwide audience.The latest video of the miners, a brief take with no audio released, showing the men in clean red shirts, many having had a fresh shave, was in stark contrast to the dirty and tired faces seen last week.", "tags": ["Chile", "Mining", "Business", "World news", "Environment", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile rescuers divided over how much to tell trapped miners"},{"date": "2010-09-01T10:40:52Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Owners of the Chilean mine where 33 workers face months awaiting rescue have appealed to the trapped men for forgiveness.Alejandro Bohn, a co-owner of the San Esteban mining company, which owns the San Jose mine, faced questioning from a government committee investigating safety failures that led to the accident.Speaking about those presently underground, Bohn said: \"The pain caused by this unwanted, unforeseen situation warrants we ask they forgive us for the anxiety they have suffered these days. It has been a terrible situation and we hope it ends very soon.\"His remarks came as Nasa medical advisers told the miners they should not be given any alcohol, for now, to help make their plight less uncomfortable. Cigarettes seem likely to be banned for the duration of the rescue.The Nasa team, who recently arrived in Chile and have studied videos of the men, said celebrities and even astronauts might be called in to help boost their spirits. Food, dry clothes, sleeping mats, medical supplies, projectors, videos and games have all been sent down narrow boreholes since the men were found alive 10 days ago.The priority is to nourish the miners, who have lost an estimated 10kg (22lbs) each during the 17 days they lay undiscovered after a tunnel collapse. High-calorie, high-protein nourishment is needed, as the men will have to move thousands of tonnes of rock to help their own rescue before they can be lifted back to the surface.\"From the alcohol standpoint, we need to first get their nutrition up before we make any considerations there,\" said James Michael Duncan, Nasa's deputy chief doctor, according to Reuters news agency.Some of the men have also asked for cigarettes, and health officials have sent them nicotine patches and gum as substitutes. \"It's an environment that's pretty enclosed and we don't want to contribute to any of the problems within the atmosphere of the mine,\" he said at a press conference in Santiago.There was a need to increase the miners' calorific intake, get them on a regular sleep schedule and ensure they remained optimistic. Duncan said: \"These miners showed us tremendous strength in surviving as long as they did without any contact with the surface. What we want to try to avoid is any kind of situation of hopelessness on the part of the miners.\"The men have moved to a drier spot 200 metres down a tunnel from their previous camp. Constant humidity has made sleeping difficult and led to severe skin infections. With signs that they are susceptible to ailments ranging from depression to extreme weight loss, the ministry of health has established a strict daily routine.\"We provide medication, we do tests \u2013 measure their blood pressure, temperature and waistline every day,\" said the health minister, Jaime Ma\u00f1alich. \"We vaccinated them, and established an adequate daily supply of water and food so they can begin to recover.\"In what he called an end to a period of \"stabilisation\", Ma\u00f1alich announced the priority was now to keep the men under constant medical supervision during their estimated three-month wait for rescue.The machine used for drilling the escape tunnel is expected to advance six metres a day. The Chilean president, Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, has named the rescue mission Operation San Lorenzo, in honour of the patron saint of miners.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Mining", "Environment", "Business", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile mine owners ask for forgiveness from trapped men"},{"date": "2010-09-11T11:00:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Of the many military coups faced by the republics of Latin America, it is the coup of 11 September 1973 that has engraved itself most permanently on the collective memory. The images of the bombing of the Moneda Palace, of the despair on the face of Salvador Allende shortly before his suicide, of the defiant expression worn by Pinochet behind his dark glasses and of the public burning of books that circulated around the world and became the symbol of military brutality.The dispersal into exile of 200,000 Chileans, most of them to Europe, added to the media images of men and women who had seen their lives destroyed by the death or disappearance of friends and relatives. The murder of thousands of political opponents and the detention and torture of people who were identified with the constitutional government isolated the military regime internationally.The coup was supported by the US government of Richard Nixon. But after 1977, the Carter administration distanced itself from Pinochet because of his repeated violation of human rights. The regime remained in power for 16 years, becoming one of the longest lasting military dictatorships in Latin America, and it almost certainly introduced more changes than in any other country. Economic policy took a radical neoliberal turn under the influence of Milton Friedman. Allende's nationalisations were reversed and a programme of privatisations was introduced, together with the elimination of tariff barriers; this, alongside the banning of trade unions, produced a dramatic fall in real wages and an equally dramatic increase in business profits.During Pinochet's time there was a massive influx of foreign capital, which produced both significant economic growth and widening inequalities, most notably during the crisis of 1983 when unemployment reached 30% and 55% of the population fell below the poverty line. Despite all this, it could be said that the dictatorship was successful in economic terms, reversing the balance of social forces in favour of a business sector that enjoyed the unequivocal support of the state, for example in the forestry sector.Although it defended the neoliberal ideas of the Chicago School, the military government did not privatise the copper mines. In 1976 it created the National Copper Corporation (Codelco), which merged the nationalised mining companies and became the world's largest copper producer. In 1987 it drove through a copper law, which diverted 10% of copper exports to the armed forces budget.The armed forces thus became a powerful force with a capacity to exert pressure on society and the state. None of the governments that were elected after the restoration of democracy in 1990 were able to change that legislation, which made Chile's armed forces the second most powerful in the region after Brazil, with the highest military spending as a proportion of GDP (according to the Military Power Review).The legacy of 11 September 1973 goes far beyond the economy and the armed forces. The dictatorship's most devastating long-term effects are in education and the question of the Mapuches, Chile's southern indigenous people. Pinochet pushed through the education law just four days before leaving power; it placed the responsibility for education in the hands of the private sector at the same time as allowing complete freedom to create educational centres. The result was the deterioration of the quality of education, while making it prohibitively expensive. Working class people now struggle to get into university and have to make do with municipal secondary colleges \u2013 in other words, a second class education. In 2006 the so-called Penguins movement (thus named because of their school uniform) mobilised half a million school students in support of the de-privatisation of education and the rescinding of the law.The case of the Mapuches is even more serious, since it affects a population of over a million people who have lost their land and whose civic rights are restricted. When the Mapuches have in the past taken collective action, the anti-terrorist laws sanctioned by Pinochet have been used against them.Young Chileans are not interested in politics in the way their parents and grandparents were: 95% of 20-year-olds do not vote. They know they cannot change the world by taking up arms or achieving victories at the polls and they have no faith in professional politicians. Yet neither are they happy with the current situation. Perhaps that explains why there are in Chile hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of small groups devoted to cultural and social activities that can affect the immediate situation. It is, now, politics in a different form.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Chile: the other 9/11 anniversary | Ra\u00fal Zibechi"},{"date": "2010-07-09T23:05:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "]The horse I hired was knackered and nameless, the chicha apple brew knocked me sideways, and I caught scabies in a cheap hotel. But I remember my week in Chilo\u00e9 as one of the happiest of my life. After the buzz of the South American mainland, I found on these Pacific islands a temperate wilderness of misty pastures, 3,000-year-old alerce forest, and a very particular people who cherish their geographical isolation.Two-thirds of the way down Chile's long, rugged coastline, the 40 or so small islands of Chilo\u00e9 are seldom visited by the mainland population. The archipelago is celebrated for its damp climate and high rainfall (residents of the capital Santiago make jokes about Chilot\u00e9s having webbed feet). But I was lucky. The sun shone for seven days. One afternoon, on the north coast of Isla Grande de Chilo\u00e9, the largest island in the group, the horse and I stopped at Ancud Bay. He stamped his arthritic legs while I watched flocks of oyster catchers and silvery grebe skimming the shallows. On the Patagonian horizon to the east, Andean volcanoes stood flat against an enamelled sky.\"We are not Chilean,\" a farmer's wife told me at Ancud market. \"Estamos Chilote, no mas.\" There was no nod to the Americanised cuisine of Santiago. For the entire week I lived off milcao, grated potato patties cooked in pork fat. Heaven.I didn't do much \u2013 just rode between flophouses of the $1-a-night variety, and drank chicha, the robust cider much loved in the interior. (It took my mind off the itching.) The plots of subsistence farmers harlequinned the land. Single churns were left to be collected at the end of lanes. The peaty light of fuchsia thickets and woodland held a stillness that had vanished from the mainland.Mountains wall off the exposed west coast of Isla Grande, a re-emergence of the coastal cordillera of Chile which sinks into the ocean somewhere south of Santiago. At Duhatoa, the last beach before the road ran out, the horse and I trekked along the dromedary line of the dunes, beyond bamboo-like quila stands where nature outdid itself in elaborate fructification. But down in the unpeopled south-west, industrial logging was making deadly inroads into old-growth forest.For 200 years, Chilo\u00e9 marked the southern frontier of Catholicism. When the first conquistadores canoed across from the South American mainland in the third quarter of the 16th century, 400 horses swam alongside them. Their legacy (the Spaniards', not the horses') survives in 100 wooden churches carved by the golden hands of Chilot\u00e9 craftsmen. The best carpenters were boat-builders, with the result that many churches look like upturned boats. At Colo, a village of three families, I sat on the low church wall to eat another chunk of pork fat. A pair of oxen swayed past drawing a sledge piled with timber. They were heading to the boat-building yard at Montmar. The ox driver sat next to me on the wall. He was 83.\"I suppose you've seen a lot of changes,\" I said, after we had chatted for a few minutes.He thought for a while. \"No tanto,\" he said \u2013 not so many.\u2022 Last Frontiers (01296 653000) offers a seven-day trip to Chilo\u00e9 from \u00a32,147 per person. The price includes internal and international flights, a night in Santiago, a visit to a penguin colony, a boat/kayak trip through a \"sunken forest\", accommodation in a family farmhouse and a stilt village hotel, all activities and most meals Sara Wheeler's latest book, The Magnetic North: Travels in the Arctic (Vintage, \u00a38.99), is out now", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "My travels: Sara Wheeler in Chile"},{"date": "2010-09-01T19:54:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The 33 trapped Chilean miners were today delivered their first hot meals in nearly a month, as a debate broke out over how much information should be shared with the men before they are rescued.The first delivery of hot food \u2013 rice with meatballs \u2013 and cheese sandwiches was a sign that efforts to improve the men's living conditions 700 metres inside the San Jose mine are gradually bearing fruit.Rescue crews have promised that the trapped men will remain on a daily diet of about 2,500 calories, but at the rescue headquarters at the mine head, a fierce debate has begun over communication between the men and the outside world.Government psychologists are helping family members craft letters to the men in an effort to avoid upsetting them with any bad news from home. Newspapers sent to the men are allegedly censored, with disturbing crime stories removed.Government health officials are undecided over what movies the men should be shown on a video projector which was lowered into the shelter last week.\"They have told us to not ask any questions to the men in our letters,\" said Carolina Lobos, 26, daughter of trapped miner Franklin Lobos. \"We are supposed to write in a positive way that will bring them up.\"But Professor Nick Kanas, who has studied for over a decade the impact distance and isolation has on astronauts, and is co-author of Space Psychology and Psychiatry, warned that censoring the men's letters could create a climate of mistrust and suspicion between them and their rescuers: \"I would not screen anything; if you start to do that you are setting up a base for mistrust. The miners will then ask, 'What else are they hiding from me?'\"As Chile nears its national bicentennial, aides to President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era are looking for ways to include the miners in the national celebration. \"The whole nation will sing the national anthem at noon on the [September] 18th,\" said Ena Von Baer, a spokeswoman for the president. Asked whether that included the trapped miners, Van Baer said, \"When I say all Chileans, I mean every Chilean.\"\"That sounds tricky,\" said Kanas. \"It would be good in that it will link the miners to the surface and they will feel they are part of a celebration. But care should be given that the miners do not feel used by anyone else for their own advantage, that will not work very well.\"A poll released on Wednesday showed Pi\u00f1era's approval rating has jumped 10 points to 56% since the mining drama began nearly a month ago. Throughout the rescue operation, Pi\u00f1era has taken centre stage, positioning himself as the hard-nosed executive who will spare no cost to save the lives of his countrymen.Information about the miners' health has been released to the public, including a controversial statement by Jaime Manalich, the Chilean minister of health, who diagnosed five of the men as suffering from depression, then the next day announced they had been cured.\"That is probably not such a good idea,\" said Lawrence Palinkas, a medical anthropologist and professor of social policy and health at the University of Southern California, when asked about making the depression diagnosis public. \"These diagnoses carry a certain stigma \u2026 and the miners have no control over the conditions which caused this \u2013 which makes it all the more important that the government protect confidentiality.\"The selective release of video footage of the men has raised the question of how the Chilean government seeks to both help the miners while also shaping the perceptions of a worldwide audience.The latest video of the miners, a brief take with no audio released, showing the men in clean red shirts, many having had a fresh shave, was in stark contrast to the dirty and tired faces seen last week.", "tags": ["Chile", "Mining", "Business", "World news", "Environment", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile rescuers divided over how much to tell trapped miners"},{"date": "2010-09-01T10:40:52Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Owners of the Chilean mine where 33 workers face months awaiting rescue have appealed to the trapped men for forgiveness.Alejandro Bohn, a co-owner of the San Esteban mining company, which owns the San Jose mine, faced questioning from a government committee investigating safety failures that led to the accident.Speaking about those presently underground, Bohn said: \"The pain caused by this unwanted, unforeseen situation warrants we ask they forgive us for the anxiety they have suffered these days. It has been a terrible situation and we hope it ends very soon.\"His remarks came as Nasa medical advisers told the miners they should not be given any alcohol, for now, to help make their plight less uncomfortable. Cigarettes seem likely to be banned for the duration of the rescue.The Nasa team, who recently arrived in Chile and have studied videos of the men, said celebrities and even astronauts might be called in to help boost their spirits. Food, dry clothes, sleeping mats, medical supplies, projectors, videos and games have all been sent down narrow boreholes since the men were found alive 10 days ago.The priority is to nourish the miners, who have lost an estimated 10kg (22lbs) each during the 17 days they lay undiscovered after a tunnel collapse. High-calorie, high-protein nourishment is needed, as the men will have to move thousands of tonnes of rock to help their own rescue before they can be lifted back to the surface.\"From the alcohol standpoint, we need to first get their nutrition up before we make any considerations there,\" said James Michael Duncan, Nasa's deputy chief doctor, according to Reuters news agency.Some of the men have also asked for cigarettes, and health officials have sent them nicotine patches and gum as substitutes. \"It's an environment that's pretty enclosed and we don't want to contribute to any of the problems within the atmosphere of the mine,\" he said at a press conference in Santiago.There was a need to increase the miners' calorific intake, get them on a regular sleep schedule and ensure they remained optimistic. Duncan said: \"These miners showed us tremendous strength in surviving as long as they did without any contact with the surface. What we want to try to avoid is any kind of situation of hopelessness on the part of the miners.\"The men have moved to a drier spot 200 metres down a tunnel from their previous camp. Constant humidity has made sleeping difficult and led to severe skin infections. With signs that they are susceptible to ailments ranging from depression to extreme weight loss, the ministry of health has established a strict daily routine.\"We provide medication, we do tests \u2013 measure their blood pressure, temperature and waistline every day,\" said the health minister, Jaime Ma\u00f1alich. \"We vaccinated them, and established an adequate daily supply of water and food so they can begin to recover.\"In what he called an end to a period of \"stabilisation\", Ma\u00f1alich announced the priority was now to keep the men under constant medical supervision during their estimated three-month wait for rescue.The machine used for drilling the escape tunnel is expected to advance six metres a day. The Chilean president, Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, has named the rescue mission Operation San Lorenzo, in honour of the patron saint of miners.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Mining", "Environment", "Business", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile mine owners ask for forgiveness from trapped men"},{"date": "2010-08-23T14:30:38Z", "country": "chile", "content": "For Todd Russell, the plight of the 33 Chilean miners trapped in the San Jose mine has brought memories of the ordeal he went through in 2006. Russell, 34, and Brant Webb, 37, were caught in a safety cage almost a kilometre below the surface when an earthquake triggered a rockfall in the Beaconsfield gold mine in northern Tasmania. The two men were feared dead until emergency crews using a thermal imaging camera located them five days later. Here he describes to Alison Rourke the two weeks they spent trapped underground.\"We were stuck underground for 14 days in a small pocket of air. We couldn't stand up or even sit up. We had to lie down on our backs. If one of us was on our back, the other had to lie on his side for 14 days. We were tossing and turning on sharp rocks and being cut to pieces. We were really worried about the cuts getting infected.\"We had no food or water for the first six days. The only thing Brant had was a muesli bar which we shared between us for that first six days. We were really worried about dehydrating because it was 29 degrees down in the mine day and night. We had to urinate into our helmets so we could collect something to drink.\"We were never confident that they were going to get us out alive. We just had to rely on each other and keep positive. That's probably the best thing those miners in Chile can do to keep themselves alive. They should think of their families and loved ones and rely on their mates around them to get them through.\"Brant and I relied on each other's strengths. We bounced off each other and relied on each other for the whole 14 days. We made up stories and sang songs just to take our mind off things and tried to put our minds into a positive state.\"It was very dark down there of course but we did have some reserve lighting. It was also very hot and humid down there but, because of the flow through of air from fans that were blowing through into the level we were on, we were also suffering from hypothermia (because of the cold air blowing on our sweat). We had to cuddle each other to keep our body cores warm. We didn't have any communication with anyone for the first six days. We just tried to remain positive and hoped that what they did on the outside wouldn't kill us. We knew that the guys were working their way towards us. We could hear everything that was happening outside us and we could hear the underground machinery operating. We knew that they were coming but whether they thought we were alive or whether they thought they were coming to do a body recovery was another thing. We weren't found alive until day six.\"I personally don't think the miners in Chile will recover from this. We will never recover from our experience either. Life for us now is easier than it was four years ago but you've always got the constant memory with you for the whole of your life. It's going to be very hard for those guys and also their families because the families don't know from day to day whether their loved ones are going to survive the four months or whether they're going to perish where they are.\"That's the same sort of thing that happened with our families. For Brant and me the first four to six days were OK because we knew we were alive but for the families on the outside they didn't have any idea whether we were alive or not.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Chilean miners rescue", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Chile mine disaster brings back memories for Tasmanian miner"},{"date": "2010-09-11T11:00:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Of the many military coups faced by the republics of Latin America, it is the coup of 11 September 1973 that has engraved itself most permanently on the collective memory. The images of the bombing of the Moneda Palace, of the despair on the face of Salvador Allende shortly before his suicide, of the defiant expression worn by Pinochet behind his dark glasses and of the public burning of books that circulated around the world and became the symbol of military brutality.The dispersal into exile of 200,000 Chileans, most of them to Europe, added to the media images of men and women who had seen their lives destroyed by the death or disappearance of friends and relatives. The murder of thousands of political opponents and the detention and torture of people who were identified with the constitutional government isolated the military regime internationally.The coup was supported by the US government of Richard Nixon. But after 1977, the Carter administration distanced itself from Pinochet because of his repeated violation of human rights. The regime remained in power for 16 years, becoming one of the longest lasting military dictatorships in Latin America, and it almost certainly introduced more changes than in any other country. Economic policy took a radical neoliberal turn under the influence of Milton Friedman. Allende's nationalisations were reversed and a programme of privatisations was introduced, together with the elimination of tariff barriers; this, alongside the banning of trade unions, produced a dramatic fall in real wages and an equally dramatic increase in business profits.During Pinochet's time there was a massive influx of foreign capital, which produced both significant economic growth and widening inequalities, most notably during the crisis of 1983 when unemployment reached 30% and 55% of the population fell below the poverty line. Despite all this, it could be said that the dictatorship was successful in economic terms, reversing the balance of social forces in favour of a business sector that enjoyed the unequivocal support of the state, for example in the forestry sector.Although it defended the neoliberal ideas of the Chicago School, the military government did not privatise the copper mines. In 1976 it created the National Copper Corporation (Codelco), which merged the nationalised mining companies and became the world's largest copper producer. In 1987 it drove through a copper law, which diverted 10% of copper exports to the armed forces budget.The armed forces thus became a powerful force with a capacity to exert pressure on society and the state. None of the governments that were elected after the restoration of democracy in 1990 were able to change that legislation, which made Chile's armed forces the second most powerful in the region after Brazil, with the highest military spending as a proportion of GDP (according to the Military Power Review).The legacy of 11 September 1973 goes far beyond the economy and the armed forces. The dictatorship's most devastating long-term effects are in education and the question of the Mapuches, Chile's southern indigenous people. Pinochet pushed through the education law just four days before leaving power; it placed the responsibility for education in the hands of the private sector at the same time as allowing complete freedom to create educational centres. The result was the deterioration of the quality of education, while making it prohibitively expensive. Working class people now struggle to get into university and have to make do with municipal secondary colleges \u2013 in other words, a second class education. In 2006 the so-called Penguins movement (thus named because of their school uniform) mobilised half a million school students in support of the de-privatisation of education and the rescinding of the law.The case of the Mapuches is even more serious, since it affects a population of over a million people who have lost their land and whose civic rights are restricted. When the Mapuches have in the past taken collective action, the anti-terrorist laws sanctioned by Pinochet have been used against them.Young Chileans are not interested in politics in the way their parents and grandparents were: 95% of 20-year-olds do not vote. They know they cannot change the world by taking up arms or achieving victories at the polls and they have no faith in professional politicians. Yet neither are they happy with the current situation. Perhaps that explains why there are in Chile hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of small groups devoted to cultural and social activities that can affect the immediate situation. It is, now, politics in a different form.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Chile: the other 9/11 anniversary | Ra\u00fal Zibechi"},{"date": "2010-07-09T23:05:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "]The horse I hired was knackered and nameless, the chicha apple brew knocked me sideways, and I caught scabies in a cheap hotel. But I remember my week in Chilo\u00e9 as one of the happiest of my life. After the buzz of the South American mainland, I found on these Pacific islands a temperate wilderness of misty pastures, 3,000-year-old alerce forest, and a very particular people who cherish their geographical isolation.Two-thirds of the way down Chile's long, rugged coastline, the 40 or so small islands of Chilo\u00e9 are seldom visited by the mainland population. The archipelago is celebrated for its damp climate and high rainfall (residents of the capital Santiago make jokes about Chilot\u00e9s having webbed feet). But I was lucky. The sun shone for seven days. One afternoon, on the north coast of Isla Grande de Chilo\u00e9, the largest island in the group, the horse and I stopped at Ancud Bay. He stamped his arthritic legs while I watched flocks of oyster catchers and silvery grebe skimming the shallows. On the Patagonian horizon to the east, Andean volcanoes stood flat against an enamelled sky.\"We are not Chilean,\" a farmer's wife told me at Ancud market. \"Estamos Chilote, no mas.\" There was no nod to the Americanised cuisine of Santiago. For the entire week I lived off milcao, grated potato patties cooked in pork fat. Heaven.I didn't do much \u2013 just rode between flophouses of the $1-a-night variety, and drank chicha, the robust cider much loved in the interior. (It took my mind off the itching.) The plots of subsistence farmers harlequinned the land. Single churns were left to be collected at the end of lanes. The peaty light of fuchsia thickets and woodland held a stillness that had vanished from the mainland.Mountains wall off the exposed west coast of Isla Grande, a re-emergence of the coastal cordillera of Chile which sinks into the ocean somewhere south of Santiago. At Duhatoa, the last beach before the road ran out, the horse and I trekked along the dromedary line of the dunes, beyond bamboo-like quila stands where nature outdid itself in elaborate fructification. But down in the unpeopled south-west, industrial logging was making deadly inroads into old-growth forest.For 200 years, Chilo\u00e9 marked the southern frontier of Catholicism. When the first conquistadores canoed across from the South American mainland in the third quarter of the 16th century, 400 horses swam alongside them. Their legacy (the Spaniards', not the horses') survives in 100 wooden churches carved by the golden hands of Chilot\u00e9 craftsmen. The best carpenters were boat-builders, with the result that many churches look like upturned boats. At Colo, a village of three families, I sat on the low church wall to eat another chunk of pork fat. A pair of oxen swayed past drawing a sledge piled with timber. They were heading to the boat-building yard at Montmar. The ox driver sat next to me on the wall. He was 83.\"I suppose you've seen a lot of changes,\" I said, after we had chatted for a few minutes.He thought for a while. \"No tanto,\" he said \u2013 not so many.\u2022 Last Frontiers (01296 653000) offers a seven-day trip to Chilo\u00e9 from \u00a32,147 per person. The price includes internal and international flights, a night in Santiago, a visit to a penguin colony, a boat/kayak trip through a \"sunken forest\", accommodation in a family farmhouse and a stilt village hotel, all activities and most meals Sara Wheeler's latest book, The Magnetic North: Travels in the Arctic (Vintage, \u00a38.99), is out now", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "My travels: Sara Wheeler in Chile"},{"date": "2010-09-01T19:54:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The 33 trapped Chilean miners were today delivered their first hot meals in nearly a month, as a debate broke out over how much information should be shared with the men before they are rescued.The first delivery of hot food \u2013 rice with meatballs \u2013 and cheese sandwiches was a sign that efforts to improve the men's living conditions 700 metres inside the San Jose mine are gradually bearing fruit.Rescue crews have promised that the trapped men will remain on a daily diet of about 2,500 calories, but at the rescue headquarters at the mine head, a fierce debate has begun over communication between the men and the outside world.Government psychologists are helping family members craft letters to the men in an effort to avoid upsetting them with any bad news from home. Newspapers sent to the men are allegedly censored, with disturbing crime stories removed.Government health officials are undecided over what movies the men should be shown on a video projector which was lowered into the shelter last week.\"They have told us to not ask any questions to the men in our letters,\" said Carolina Lobos, 26, daughter of trapped miner Franklin Lobos. \"We are supposed to write in a positive way that will bring them up.\"But Professor Nick Kanas, who has studied for over a decade the impact distance and isolation has on astronauts, and is co-author of Space Psychology and Psychiatry, warned that censoring the men's letters could create a climate of mistrust and suspicion between them and their rescuers: \"I would not screen anything; if you start to do that you are setting up a base for mistrust. The miners will then ask, 'What else are they hiding from me?'\"As Chile nears its national bicentennial, aides to President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era are looking for ways to include the miners in the national celebration. \"The whole nation will sing the national anthem at noon on the [September] 18th,\" said Ena Von Baer, a spokeswoman for the president. Asked whether that included the trapped miners, Van Baer said, \"When I say all Chileans, I mean every Chilean.\"\"That sounds tricky,\" said Kanas. \"It would be good in that it will link the miners to the surface and they will feel they are part of a celebration. But care should be given that the miners do not feel used by anyone else for their own advantage, that will not work very well.\"A poll released on Wednesday showed Pi\u00f1era's approval rating has jumped 10 points to 56% since the mining drama began nearly a month ago. Throughout the rescue operation, Pi\u00f1era has taken centre stage, positioning himself as the hard-nosed executive who will spare no cost to save the lives of his countrymen.Information about the miners' health has been released to the public, including a controversial statement by Jaime Manalich, the Chilean minister of health, who diagnosed five of the men as suffering from depression, then the next day announced they had been cured.\"That is probably not such a good idea,\" said Lawrence Palinkas, a medical anthropologist and professor of social policy and health at the University of Southern California, when asked about making the depression diagnosis public. \"These diagnoses carry a certain stigma \u2026 and the miners have no control over the conditions which caused this \u2013 which makes it all the more important that the government protect confidentiality.\"The selective release of video footage of the men has raised the question of how the Chilean government seeks to both help the miners while also shaping the perceptions of a worldwide audience.The latest video of the miners, a brief take with no audio released, showing the men in clean red shirts, many having had a fresh shave, was in stark contrast to the dirty and tired faces seen last week.", "tags": ["Chile", "Mining", "Business", "World news", "Environment", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile rescuers divided over how much to tell trapped miners"},{"date": "2010-09-01T10:40:52Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Owners of the Chilean mine where 33 workers face months awaiting rescue have appealed to the trapped men for forgiveness.Alejandro Bohn, a co-owner of the San Esteban mining company, which owns the San Jose mine, faced questioning from a government committee investigating safety failures that led to the accident.Speaking about those presently underground, Bohn said: \"The pain caused by this unwanted, unforeseen situation warrants we ask they forgive us for the anxiety they have suffered these days. It has been a terrible situation and we hope it ends very soon.\"His remarks came as Nasa medical advisers told the miners they should not be given any alcohol, for now, to help make their plight less uncomfortable. Cigarettes seem likely to be banned for the duration of the rescue.The Nasa team, who recently arrived in Chile and have studied videos of the men, said celebrities and even astronauts might be called in to help boost their spirits. Food, dry clothes, sleeping mats, medical supplies, projectors, videos and games have all been sent down narrow boreholes since the men were found alive 10 days ago.The priority is to nourish the miners, who have lost an estimated 10kg (22lbs) each during the 17 days they lay undiscovered after a tunnel collapse. High-calorie, high-protein nourishment is needed, as the men will have to move thousands of tonnes of rock to help their own rescue before they can be lifted back to the surface.\"From the alcohol standpoint, we need to first get their nutrition up before we make any considerations there,\" said James Michael Duncan, Nasa's deputy chief doctor, according to Reuters news agency.Some of the men have also asked for cigarettes, and health officials have sent them nicotine patches and gum as substitutes. \"It's an environment that's pretty enclosed and we don't want to contribute to any of the problems within the atmosphere of the mine,\" he said at a press conference in Santiago.There was a need to increase the miners' calorific intake, get them on a regular sleep schedule and ensure they remained optimistic. Duncan said: \"These miners showed us tremendous strength in surviving as long as they did without any contact with the surface. What we want to try to avoid is any kind of situation of hopelessness on the part of the miners.\"The men have moved to a drier spot 200 metres down a tunnel from their previous camp. Constant humidity has made sleeping difficult and led to severe skin infections. With signs that they are susceptible to ailments ranging from depression to extreme weight loss, the ministry of health has established a strict daily routine.\"We provide medication, we do tests \u2013 measure their blood pressure, temperature and waistline every day,\" said the health minister, Jaime Ma\u00f1alich. \"We vaccinated them, and established an adequate daily supply of water and food so they can begin to recover.\"In what he called an end to a period of \"stabilisation\", Ma\u00f1alich announced the priority was now to keep the men under constant medical supervision during their estimated three-month wait for rescue.The machine used for drilling the escape tunnel is expected to advance six metres a day. The Chilean president, Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, has named the rescue mission Operation San Lorenzo, in honour of the patron saint of miners.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Mining", "Environment", "Business", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile mine owners ask for forgiveness from trapped men"},{"date": "2010-08-23T14:30:38Z", "country": "chile", "content": "For Todd Russell, the plight of the 33 Chilean miners trapped in the San Jose mine has brought memories of the ordeal he went through in 2006. Russell, 34, and Brant Webb, 37, were caught in a safety cage almost a kilometre below the surface when an earthquake triggered a rockfall in the Beaconsfield gold mine in northern Tasmania. The two men were feared dead until emergency crews using a thermal imaging camera located them five days later. Here he describes to Alison Rourke the two weeks they spent trapped underground.\"We were stuck underground for 14 days in a small pocket of air. We couldn't stand up or even sit up. We had to lie down on our backs. If one of us was on our back, the other had to lie on his side for 14 days. We were tossing and turning on sharp rocks and being cut to pieces. We were really worried about the cuts getting infected.\"We had no food or water for the first six days. The only thing Brant had was a muesli bar which we shared between us for that first six days. We were really worried about dehydrating because it was 29 degrees down in the mine day and night. We had to urinate into our helmets so we could collect something to drink.\"We were never confident that they were going to get us out alive. We just had to rely on each other and keep positive. That's probably the best thing those miners in Chile can do to keep themselves alive. They should think of their families and loved ones and rely on their mates around them to get them through.\"Brant and I relied on each other's strengths. We bounced off each other and relied on each other for the whole 14 days. We made up stories and sang songs just to take our mind off things and tried to put our minds into a positive state.\"It was very dark down there of course but we did have some reserve lighting. It was also very hot and humid down there but, because of the flow through of air from fans that were blowing through into the level we were on, we were also suffering from hypothermia (because of the cold air blowing on our sweat). We had to cuddle each other to keep our body cores warm. We didn't have any communication with anyone for the first six days. We just tried to remain positive and hoped that what they did on the outside wouldn't kill us. We knew that the guys were working their way towards us. We could hear everything that was happening outside us and we could hear the underground machinery operating. We knew that they were coming but whether they thought we were alive or whether they thought they were coming to do a body recovery was another thing. We weren't found alive until day six.\"I personally don't think the miners in Chile will recover from this. We will never recover from our experience either. Life for us now is easier than it was four years ago but you've always got the constant memory with you for the whole of your life. It's going to be very hard for those guys and also their families because the families don't know from day to day whether their loved ones are going to survive the four months or whether they're going to perish where they are.\"That's the same sort of thing that happened with our families. For Brant and me the first four to six days were OK because we knew we were alive but for the families on the outside they didn't have any idea whether we were alive or not.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Chilean miners rescue", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Chile mine disaster brings back memories for Tasmanian miner"},{"date": "2010-08-13T17:34:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Community leaders on Easter Island have threatened to secede from Chile and transfer allegiance to Polynesian states in a row over land rights and immigration.Prominent families from the indigenous Rapa Nui population have told the Pacific Islands Forum, an inter-governmental body, that they wish to renounce Chilean sovereignty and be considered part of Oceania rather than the Americas.Easter Island is a remote speck in the Pacific 2,300 miles west of Chile. It was annexed by Santiago in 1888 and made a province of the Valparaiso region but is considered a special territory, not least because giant statues known as moais make it a Unesco world heritage site.Leviante Araki, head of the Rapa Nui \"parliament\", an advocacy group for indigenous people who comprise half the 5,000 population, requested secession in a letter this week to the Pacific Island Forum and Chile's President Sebastian Pinera. The would-be separatists resent what they say is an uncontrolled influx of tourists and settlers and accuse the government of taking over ancestral land with state offices. Protesters occupied several state-owned buildings.The protests were sparked by Pinera's appointment of a governor, Pedro Edmunds Paoa, who was suspected of plotting land deals. Paoa offered to resign and the president dispatched a team of troubleshooters to address locals' concerns. Government officials played down the threat of secession. Alberto Hotus, the octogenarian head of the island's elders' council, said the territory could not survive without mainland support.\"This island would be a disaster,\" he told the BBC. \"I remember when there was nothing more than muddy trails here. Thanks to the Chilean government it is different now, we owe them everything we have.\"Ethnically the islanders were Polynesian and American, he said. \"Chile is part of the American continent and we are part of Chile.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "Easter Island's indigenous leaders want to sever link with Chile"},{"date": "2010-09-11T11:00:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Of the many military coups faced by the republics of Latin America, it is the coup of 11 September 1973 that has engraved itself most permanently on the collective memory. The images of the bombing of the Moneda Palace, of the despair on the face of Salvador Allende shortly before his suicide, of the defiant expression worn by Pinochet behind his dark glasses and of the public burning of books that circulated around the world and became the symbol of military brutality.The dispersal into exile of 200,000 Chileans, most of them to Europe, added to the media images of men and women who had seen their lives destroyed by the death or disappearance of friends and relatives. The murder of thousands of political opponents and the detention and torture of people who were identified with the constitutional government isolated the military regime internationally.The coup was supported by the US government of Richard Nixon. But after 1977, the Carter administration distanced itself from Pinochet because of his repeated violation of human rights. The regime remained in power for 16 years, becoming one of the longest lasting military dictatorships in Latin America, and it almost certainly introduced more changes than in any other country. Economic policy took a radical neoliberal turn under the influence of Milton Friedman. Allende's nationalisations were reversed and a programme of privatisations was introduced, together with the elimination of tariff barriers; this, alongside the banning of trade unions, produced a dramatic fall in real wages and an equally dramatic increase in business profits.During Pinochet's time there was a massive influx of foreign capital, which produced both significant economic growth and widening inequalities, most notably during the crisis of 1983 when unemployment reached 30% and 55% of the population fell below the poverty line. Despite all this, it could be said that the dictatorship was successful in economic terms, reversing the balance of social forces in favour of a business sector that enjoyed the unequivocal support of the state, for example in the forestry sector.Although it defended the neoliberal ideas of the Chicago School, the military government did not privatise the copper mines. In 1976 it created the National Copper Corporation (Codelco), which merged the nationalised mining companies and became the world's largest copper producer. In 1987 it drove through a copper law, which diverted 10% of copper exports to the armed forces budget.The armed forces thus became a powerful force with a capacity to exert pressure on society and the state. None of the governments that were elected after the restoration of democracy in 1990 were able to change that legislation, which made Chile's armed forces the second most powerful in the region after Brazil, with the highest military spending as a proportion of GDP (according to the Military Power Review).The legacy of 11 September 1973 goes far beyond the economy and the armed forces. The dictatorship's most devastating long-term effects are in education and the question of the Mapuches, Chile's southern indigenous people. Pinochet pushed through the education law just four days before leaving power; it placed the responsibility for education in the hands of the private sector at the same time as allowing complete freedom to create educational centres. The result was the deterioration of the quality of education, while making it prohibitively expensive. Working class people now struggle to get into university and have to make do with municipal secondary colleges \u2013 in other words, a second class education. In 2006 the so-called Penguins movement (thus named because of their school uniform) mobilised half a million school students in support of the de-privatisation of education and the rescinding of the law.The case of the Mapuches is even more serious, since it affects a population of over a million people who have lost their land and whose civic rights are restricted. When the Mapuches have in the past taken collective action, the anti-terrorist laws sanctioned by Pinochet have been used against them.Young Chileans are not interested in politics in the way their parents and grandparents were: 95% of 20-year-olds do not vote. They know they cannot change the world by taking up arms or achieving victories at the polls and they have no faith in professional politicians. Yet neither are they happy with the current situation. Perhaps that explains why there are in Chile hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of small groups devoted to cultural and social activities that can affect the immediate situation. It is, now, politics in a different form.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Chile: the other 9/11 anniversary | Ra\u00fal Zibechi"},{"date": "2010-07-09T23:05:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "]The horse I hired was knackered and nameless, the chicha apple brew knocked me sideways, and I caught scabies in a cheap hotel. But I remember my week in Chilo\u00e9 as one of the happiest of my life. After the buzz of the South American mainland, I found on these Pacific islands a temperate wilderness of misty pastures, 3,000-year-old alerce forest, and a very particular people who cherish their geographical isolation.Two-thirds of the way down Chile's long, rugged coastline, the 40 or so small islands of Chilo\u00e9 are seldom visited by the mainland population. The archipelago is celebrated for its damp climate and high rainfall (residents of the capital Santiago make jokes about Chilot\u00e9s having webbed feet). But I was lucky. The sun shone for seven days. One afternoon, on the north coast of Isla Grande de Chilo\u00e9, the largest island in the group, the horse and I stopped at Ancud Bay. He stamped his arthritic legs while I watched flocks of oyster catchers and silvery grebe skimming the shallows. On the Patagonian horizon to the east, Andean volcanoes stood flat against an enamelled sky.\"We are not Chilean,\" a farmer's wife told me at Ancud market. \"Estamos Chilote, no mas.\" There was no nod to the Americanised cuisine of Santiago. For the entire week I lived off milcao, grated potato patties cooked in pork fat. Heaven.I didn't do much \u2013 just rode between flophouses of the $1-a-night variety, and drank chicha, the robust cider much loved in the interior. (It took my mind off the itching.) The plots of subsistence farmers harlequinned the land. Single churns were left to be collected at the end of lanes. The peaty light of fuchsia thickets and woodland held a stillness that had vanished from the mainland.Mountains wall off the exposed west coast of Isla Grande, a re-emergence of the coastal cordillera of Chile which sinks into the ocean somewhere south of Santiago. At Duhatoa, the last beach before the road ran out, the horse and I trekked along the dromedary line of the dunes, beyond bamboo-like quila stands where nature outdid itself in elaborate fructification. But down in the unpeopled south-west, industrial logging was making deadly inroads into old-growth forest.For 200 years, Chilo\u00e9 marked the southern frontier of Catholicism. When the first conquistadores canoed across from the South American mainland in the third quarter of the 16th century, 400 horses swam alongside them. Their legacy (the Spaniards', not the horses') survives in 100 wooden churches carved by the golden hands of Chilot\u00e9 craftsmen. The best carpenters were boat-builders, with the result that many churches look like upturned boats. At Colo, a village of three families, I sat on the low church wall to eat another chunk of pork fat. A pair of oxen swayed past drawing a sledge piled with timber. They were heading to the boat-building yard at Montmar. The ox driver sat next to me on the wall. He was 83.\"I suppose you've seen a lot of changes,\" I said, after we had chatted for a few minutes.He thought for a while. \"No tanto,\" he said \u2013 not so many.\u2022 Last Frontiers (01296 653000) offers a seven-day trip to Chilo\u00e9 from \u00a32,147 per person. The price includes internal and international flights, a night in Santiago, a visit to a penguin colony, a boat/kayak trip through a \"sunken forest\", accommodation in a family farmhouse and a stilt village hotel, all activities and most meals Sara Wheeler's latest book, The Magnetic North: Travels in the Arctic (Vintage, \u00a38.99), is out now", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "My travels: Sara Wheeler in Chile"},{"date": "2010-09-01T19:54:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The 33 trapped Chilean miners were today delivered their first hot meals in nearly a month, as a debate broke out over how much information should be shared with the men before they are rescued.The first delivery of hot food \u2013 rice with meatballs \u2013 and cheese sandwiches was a sign that efforts to improve the men's living conditions 700 metres inside the San Jose mine are gradually bearing fruit.Rescue crews have promised that the trapped men will remain on a daily diet of about 2,500 calories, but at the rescue headquarters at the mine head, a fierce debate has begun over communication between the men and the outside world.Government psychologists are helping family members craft letters to the men in an effort to avoid upsetting them with any bad news from home. Newspapers sent to the men are allegedly censored, with disturbing crime stories removed.Government health officials are undecided over what movies the men should be shown on a video projector which was lowered into the shelter last week.\"They have told us to not ask any questions to the men in our letters,\" said Carolina Lobos, 26, daughter of trapped miner Franklin Lobos. \"We are supposed to write in a positive way that will bring them up.\"But Professor Nick Kanas, who has studied for over a decade the impact distance and isolation has on astronauts, and is co-author of Space Psychology and Psychiatry, warned that censoring the men's letters could create a climate of mistrust and suspicion between them and their rescuers: \"I would not screen anything; if you start to do that you are setting up a base for mistrust. The miners will then ask, 'What else are they hiding from me?'\"As Chile nears its national bicentennial, aides to President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era are looking for ways to include the miners in the national celebration. \"The whole nation will sing the national anthem at noon on the [September] 18th,\" said Ena Von Baer, a spokeswoman for the president. Asked whether that included the trapped miners, Van Baer said, \"When I say all Chileans, I mean every Chilean.\"\"That sounds tricky,\" said Kanas. \"It would be good in that it will link the miners to the surface and they will feel they are part of a celebration. But care should be given that the miners do not feel used by anyone else for their own advantage, that will not work very well.\"A poll released on Wednesday showed Pi\u00f1era's approval rating has jumped 10 points to 56% since the mining drama began nearly a month ago. Throughout the rescue operation, Pi\u00f1era has taken centre stage, positioning himself as the hard-nosed executive who will spare no cost to save the lives of his countrymen.Information about the miners' health has been released to the public, including a controversial statement by Jaime Manalich, the Chilean minister of health, who diagnosed five of the men as suffering from depression, then the next day announced they had been cured.\"That is probably not such a good idea,\" said Lawrence Palinkas, a medical anthropologist and professor of social policy and health at the University of Southern California, when asked about making the depression diagnosis public. \"These diagnoses carry a certain stigma \u2026 and the miners have no control over the conditions which caused this \u2013 which makes it all the more important that the government protect confidentiality.\"The selective release of video footage of the men has raised the question of how the Chilean government seeks to both help the miners while also shaping the perceptions of a worldwide audience.The latest video of the miners, a brief take with no audio released, showing the men in clean red shirts, many having had a fresh shave, was in stark contrast to the dirty and tired faces seen last week.", "tags": ["Chile", "Mining", "Business", "World news", "Environment", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile rescuers divided over how much to tell trapped miners"},{"date": "2010-09-01T10:40:52Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Owners of the Chilean mine where 33 workers face months awaiting rescue have appealed to the trapped men for forgiveness.Alejandro Bohn, a co-owner of the San Esteban mining company, which owns the San Jose mine, faced questioning from a government committee investigating safety failures that led to the accident.Speaking about those presently underground, Bohn said: \"The pain caused by this unwanted, unforeseen situation warrants we ask they forgive us for the anxiety they have suffered these days. It has been a terrible situation and we hope it ends very soon.\"His remarks came as Nasa medical advisers told the miners they should not be given any alcohol, for now, to help make their plight less uncomfortable. Cigarettes seem likely to be banned for the duration of the rescue.The Nasa team, who recently arrived in Chile and have studied videos of the men, said celebrities and even astronauts might be called in to help boost their spirits. Food, dry clothes, sleeping mats, medical supplies, projectors, videos and games have all been sent down narrow boreholes since the men were found alive 10 days ago.The priority is to nourish the miners, who have lost an estimated 10kg (22lbs) each during the 17 days they lay undiscovered after a tunnel collapse. High-calorie, high-protein nourishment is needed, as the men will have to move thousands of tonnes of rock to help their own rescue before they can be lifted back to the surface.\"From the alcohol standpoint, we need to first get their nutrition up before we make any considerations there,\" said James Michael Duncan, Nasa's deputy chief doctor, according to Reuters news agency.Some of the men have also asked for cigarettes, and health officials have sent them nicotine patches and gum as substitutes. \"It's an environment that's pretty enclosed and we don't want to contribute to any of the problems within the atmosphere of the mine,\" he said at a press conference in Santiago.There was a need to increase the miners' calorific intake, get them on a regular sleep schedule and ensure they remained optimistic. Duncan said: \"These miners showed us tremendous strength in surviving as long as they did without any contact with the surface. What we want to try to avoid is any kind of situation of hopelessness on the part of the miners.\"The men have moved to a drier spot 200 metres down a tunnel from their previous camp. Constant humidity has made sleeping difficult and led to severe skin infections. With signs that they are susceptible to ailments ranging from depression to extreme weight loss, the ministry of health has established a strict daily routine.\"We provide medication, we do tests \u2013 measure their blood pressure, temperature and waistline every day,\" said the health minister, Jaime Ma\u00f1alich. \"We vaccinated them, and established an adequate daily supply of water and food so they can begin to recover.\"In what he called an end to a period of \"stabilisation\", Ma\u00f1alich announced the priority was now to keep the men under constant medical supervision during their estimated three-month wait for rescue.The machine used for drilling the escape tunnel is expected to advance six metres a day. The Chilean president, Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, has named the rescue mission Operation San Lorenzo, in honour of the patron saint of miners.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Mining", "Environment", "Business", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile mine owners ask for forgiveness from trapped men"},{"date": "2010-08-23T14:30:38Z", "country": "chile", "content": "For Todd Russell, the plight of the 33 Chilean miners trapped in the San Jose mine has brought memories of the ordeal he went through in 2006. Russell, 34, and Brant Webb, 37, were caught in a safety cage almost a kilometre below the surface when an earthquake triggered a rockfall in the Beaconsfield gold mine in northern Tasmania. The two men were feared dead until emergency crews using a thermal imaging camera located them five days later. Here he describes to Alison Rourke the two weeks they spent trapped underground.\"We were stuck underground for 14 days in a small pocket of air. We couldn't stand up or even sit up. We had to lie down on our backs. If one of us was on our back, the other had to lie on his side for 14 days. We were tossing and turning on sharp rocks and being cut to pieces. We were really worried about the cuts getting infected.\"We had no food or water for the first six days. The only thing Brant had was a muesli bar which we shared between us for that first six days. We were really worried about dehydrating because it was 29 degrees down in the mine day and night. We had to urinate into our helmets so we could collect something to drink.\"We were never confident that they were going to get us out alive. We just had to rely on each other and keep positive. That's probably the best thing those miners in Chile can do to keep themselves alive. They should think of their families and loved ones and rely on their mates around them to get them through.\"Brant and I relied on each other's strengths. We bounced off each other and relied on each other for the whole 14 days. We made up stories and sang songs just to take our mind off things and tried to put our minds into a positive state.\"It was very dark down there of course but we did have some reserve lighting. It was also very hot and humid down there but, because of the flow through of air from fans that were blowing through into the level we were on, we were also suffering from hypothermia (because of the cold air blowing on our sweat). We had to cuddle each other to keep our body cores warm. We didn't have any communication with anyone for the first six days. We just tried to remain positive and hoped that what they did on the outside wouldn't kill us. We knew that the guys were working their way towards us. We could hear everything that was happening outside us and we could hear the underground machinery operating. We knew that they were coming but whether they thought we were alive or whether they thought they were coming to do a body recovery was another thing. We weren't found alive until day six.\"I personally don't think the miners in Chile will recover from this. We will never recover from our experience either. Life for us now is easier than it was four years ago but you've always got the constant memory with you for the whole of your life. It's going to be very hard for those guys and also their families because the families don't know from day to day whether their loved ones are going to survive the four months or whether they're going to perish where they are.\"That's the same sort of thing that happened with our families. For Brant and me the first four to six days were OK because we knew we were alive but for the families on the outside they didn't have any idea whether we were alive or not.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Chilean miners rescue", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Chile mine disaster brings back memories for Tasmanian miner"},{"date": "2010-08-13T17:34:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Community leaders on Easter Island have threatened to secede from Chile and transfer allegiance to Polynesian states in a row over land rights and immigration.Prominent families from the indigenous Rapa Nui population have told the Pacific Islands Forum, an inter-governmental body, that they wish to renounce Chilean sovereignty and be considered part of Oceania rather than the Americas.Easter Island is a remote speck in the Pacific 2,300 miles west of Chile. It was annexed by Santiago in 1888 and made a province of the Valparaiso region but is considered a special territory, not least because giant statues known as moais make it a Unesco world heritage site.Leviante Araki, head of the Rapa Nui \"parliament\", an advocacy group for indigenous people who comprise half the 5,000 population, requested secession in a letter this week to the Pacific Island Forum and Chile's President Sebastian Pinera. The would-be separatists resent what they say is an uncontrolled influx of tourists and settlers and accuse the government of taking over ancestral land with state offices. Protesters occupied several state-owned buildings.The protests were sparked by Pinera's appointment of a governor, Pedro Edmunds Paoa, who was suspected of plotting land deals. Paoa offered to resign and the president dispatched a team of troubleshooters to address locals' concerns. Government officials played down the threat of secession. Alberto Hotus, the octogenarian head of the island's elders' council, said the territory could not survive without mainland support.\"This island would be a disaster,\" he told the BBC. \"I remember when there was nothing more than muddy trails here. Thanks to the Chilean government it is different now, we owe them everything we have.\"Ethnically the islanders were Polynesian and American, he said. \"Chile is part of the American continent and we are part of Chile.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "Easter Island's indigenous leaders want to sever link with Chile"},{"date": "2010-08-24T13:00:43Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Dionisia was waiting her turn in the crowded medical centre, her baby bundled up on her back with a manta, the traditional multicoloured Andean cloth. \"My son has got a problem with his lungs,\" explained the young mother, who believes that it is due to the cold spell that has hit Lima.Dionisia lives in Manchay to the east of the Peruvian capital, a sprawl of plywood houses with makeshift roofs of corrugated iron, plastic or cardboard that offer little protection from the winds that sweep over the hills.For the first time in 40 years, temperatures in Lima fell to 8.8C at the end of July. Since then they have hovered around 13-15C. Houses are poorly insulated in Lima, and according to Percy Mosca of the Peruvian department of meteorology and hydrology, \"the cold is made worse by the unusually strong winds in the region, as well as high humidity of more than 80% and sometimes even 95%\".\"It's so cold your bones ache,\" said Dionisia. The whole of Peru is having an unusual cold spell as a result of La Ni\u00f1a, a cyclical climatic phenomenon leading to a cooling of the Pacific Ocean. But the drop in temperatures is also due to a mass of cold air from the south pole, which has also affected Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and southern Brazil.Unusually low temperatures of 10C have even reached the Amazonian forest, which is more used to recording figures of 20-30C.The Peruvian government is particularly concerned about the extent and duration of this bout of cold weather, which has hit 13 regions, about half the country. \"We have sent reinforcements to the medical centres and launched vaccination programmes, not only in the Andes where we do them every year, but in Amazonia as well,\" said Aquiles Vilchez, who is in charge of epidemiology at the ministry of health.There has also been an increase in the number of cases of pneumonia. \"However, the number of deaths due to such respiratory diseases is lower than last year,\" he stressed.Vilchez believes this shows that past experience has helped the country deal with the cold spell. Nevertheless, 250 children aged under five have died in Peru from cold-related respiratory diseases, mostly pneumonia, since the beginning of the year. Of these 64 came from the high Andes region of Puno, where temperatures sometimes fall below -20C.This article was first published in Le Monde", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Peru", "Lima", "Americas"], "title": "Extreme La Ni\u00f1a brings illness and misery to Peru"},{"date": "2010-09-11T11:00:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Of the many military coups faced by the republics of Latin America, it is the coup of 11 September 1973 that has engraved itself most permanently on the collective memory. The images of the bombing of the Moneda Palace, of the despair on the face of Salvador Allende shortly before his suicide, of the defiant expression worn by Pinochet behind his dark glasses and of the public burning of books that circulated around the world and became the symbol of military brutality.The dispersal into exile of 200,000 Chileans, most of them to Europe, added to the media images of men and women who had seen their lives destroyed by the death or disappearance of friends and relatives. The murder of thousands of political opponents and the detention and torture of people who were identified with the constitutional government isolated the military regime internationally.The coup was supported by the US government of Richard Nixon. But after 1977, the Carter administration distanced itself from Pinochet because of his repeated violation of human rights. The regime remained in power for 16 years, becoming one of the longest lasting military dictatorships in Latin America, and it almost certainly introduced more changes than in any other country. Economic policy took a radical neoliberal turn under the influence of Milton Friedman. Allende's nationalisations were reversed and a programme of privatisations was introduced, together with the elimination of tariff barriers; this, alongside the banning of trade unions, produced a dramatic fall in real wages and an equally dramatic increase in business profits.During Pinochet's time there was a massive influx of foreign capital, which produced both significant economic growth and widening inequalities, most notably during the crisis of 1983 when unemployment reached 30% and 55% of the population fell below the poverty line. Despite all this, it could be said that the dictatorship was successful in economic terms, reversing the balance of social forces in favour of a business sector that enjoyed the unequivocal support of the state, for example in the forestry sector.Although it defended the neoliberal ideas of the Chicago School, the military government did not privatise the copper mines. In 1976 it created the National Copper Corporation (Codelco), which merged the nationalised mining companies and became the world's largest copper producer. In 1987 it drove through a copper law, which diverted 10% of copper exports to the armed forces budget.The armed forces thus became a powerful force with a capacity to exert pressure on society and the state. None of the governments that were elected after the restoration of democracy in 1990 were able to change that legislation, which made Chile's armed forces the second most powerful in the region after Brazil, with the highest military spending as a proportion of GDP (according to the Military Power Review).The legacy of 11 September 1973 goes far beyond the economy and the armed forces. The dictatorship's most devastating long-term effects are in education and the question of the Mapuches, Chile's southern indigenous people. Pinochet pushed through the education law just four days before leaving power; it placed the responsibility for education in the hands of the private sector at the same time as allowing complete freedom to create educational centres. The result was the deterioration of the quality of education, while making it prohibitively expensive. Working class people now struggle to get into university and have to make do with municipal secondary colleges \u2013 in other words, a second class education. In 2006 the so-called Penguins movement (thus named because of their school uniform) mobilised half a million school students in support of the de-privatisation of education and the rescinding of the law.The case of the Mapuches is even more serious, since it affects a population of over a million people who have lost their land and whose civic rights are restricted. When the Mapuches have in the past taken collective action, the anti-terrorist laws sanctioned by Pinochet have been used against them.Young Chileans are not interested in politics in the way their parents and grandparents were: 95% of 20-year-olds do not vote. They know they cannot change the world by taking up arms or achieving victories at the polls and they have no faith in professional politicians. Yet neither are they happy with the current situation. Perhaps that explains why there are in Chile hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of small groups devoted to cultural and social activities that can affect the immediate situation. It is, now, politics in a different form.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Chile: the other 9/11 anniversary | Ra\u00fal Zibechi"},{"date": "2010-07-09T23:05:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "]The horse I hired was knackered and nameless, the chicha apple brew knocked me sideways, and I caught scabies in a cheap hotel. But I remember my week in Chilo\u00e9 as one of the happiest of my life. After the buzz of the South American mainland, I found on these Pacific islands a temperate wilderness of misty pastures, 3,000-year-old alerce forest, and a very particular people who cherish their geographical isolation.Two-thirds of the way down Chile's long, rugged coastline, the 40 or so small islands of Chilo\u00e9 are seldom visited by the mainland population. The archipelago is celebrated for its damp climate and high rainfall (residents of the capital Santiago make jokes about Chilot\u00e9s having webbed feet). But I was lucky. The sun shone for seven days. One afternoon, on the north coast of Isla Grande de Chilo\u00e9, the largest island in the group, the horse and I stopped at Ancud Bay. He stamped his arthritic legs while I watched flocks of oyster catchers and silvery grebe skimming the shallows. On the Patagonian horizon to the east, Andean volcanoes stood flat against an enamelled sky.\"We are not Chilean,\" a farmer's wife told me at Ancud market. \"Estamos Chilote, no mas.\" There was no nod to the Americanised cuisine of Santiago. For the entire week I lived off milcao, grated potato patties cooked in pork fat. Heaven.I didn't do much \u2013 just rode between flophouses of the $1-a-night variety, and drank chicha, the robust cider much loved in the interior. (It took my mind off the itching.) The plots of subsistence farmers harlequinned the land. Single churns were left to be collected at the end of lanes. The peaty light of fuchsia thickets and woodland held a stillness that had vanished from the mainland.Mountains wall off the exposed west coast of Isla Grande, a re-emergence of the coastal cordillera of Chile which sinks into the ocean somewhere south of Santiago. At Duhatoa, the last beach before the road ran out, the horse and I trekked along the dromedary line of the dunes, beyond bamboo-like quila stands where nature outdid itself in elaborate fructification. But down in the unpeopled south-west, industrial logging was making deadly inroads into old-growth forest.For 200 years, Chilo\u00e9 marked the southern frontier of Catholicism. When the first conquistadores canoed across from the South American mainland in the third quarter of the 16th century, 400 horses swam alongside them. Their legacy (the Spaniards', not the horses') survives in 100 wooden churches carved by the golden hands of Chilot\u00e9 craftsmen. The best carpenters were boat-builders, with the result that many churches look like upturned boats. At Colo, a village of three families, I sat on the low church wall to eat another chunk of pork fat. A pair of oxen swayed past drawing a sledge piled with timber. They were heading to the boat-building yard at Montmar. The ox driver sat next to me on the wall. He was 83.\"I suppose you've seen a lot of changes,\" I said, after we had chatted for a few minutes.He thought for a while. \"No tanto,\" he said \u2013 not so many.\u2022 Last Frontiers (01296 653000) offers a seven-day trip to Chilo\u00e9 from \u00a32,147 per person. The price includes internal and international flights, a night in Santiago, a visit to a penguin colony, a boat/kayak trip through a \"sunken forest\", accommodation in a family farmhouse and a stilt village hotel, all activities and most meals Sara Wheeler's latest book, The Magnetic North: Travels in the Arctic (Vintage, \u00a38.99), is out now", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "My travels: Sara Wheeler in Chile"},{"date": "2010-09-01T19:54:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The 33 trapped Chilean miners were today delivered their first hot meals in nearly a month, as a debate broke out over how much information should be shared with the men before they are rescued.The first delivery of hot food \u2013 rice with meatballs \u2013 and cheese sandwiches was a sign that efforts to improve the men's living conditions 700 metres inside the San Jose mine are gradually bearing fruit.Rescue crews have promised that the trapped men will remain on a daily diet of about 2,500 calories, but at the rescue headquarters at the mine head, a fierce debate has begun over communication between the men and the outside world.Government psychologists are helping family members craft letters to the men in an effort to avoid upsetting them with any bad news from home. Newspapers sent to the men are allegedly censored, with disturbing crime stories removed.Government health officials are undecided over what movies the men should be shown on a video projector which was lowered into the shelter last week.\"They have told us to not ask any questions to the men in our letters,\" said Carolina Lobos, 26, daughter of trapped miner Franklin Lobos. \"We are supposed to write in a positive way that will bring them up.\"But Professor Nick Kanas, who has studied for over a decade the impact distance and isolation has on astronauts, and is co-author of Space Psychology and Psychiatry, warned that censoring the men's letters could create a climate of mistrust and suspicion between them and their rescuers: \"I would not screen anything; if you start to do that you are setting up a base for mistrust. The miners will then ask, 'What else are they hiding from me?'\"As Chile nears its national bicentennial, aides to President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era are looking for ways to include the miners in the national celebration. \"The whole nation will sing the national anthem at noon on the [September] 18th,\" said Ena Von Baer, a spokeswoman for the president. Asked whether that included the trapped miners, Van Baer said, \"When I say all Chileans, I mean every Chilean.\"\"That sounds tricky,\" said Kanas. \"It would be good in that it will link the miners to the surface and they will feel they are part of a celebration. But care should be given that the miners do not feel used by anyone else for their own advantage, that will not work very well.\"A poll released on Wednesday showed Pi\u00f1era's approval rating has jumped 10 points to 56% since the mining drama began nearly a month ago. Throughout the rescue operation, Pi\u00f1era has taken centre stage, positioning himself as the hard-nosed executive who will spare no cost to save the lives of his countrymen.Information about the miners' health has been released to the public, including a controversial statement by Jaime Manalich, the Chilean minister of health, who diagnosed five of the men as suffering from depression, then the next day announced they had been cured.\"That is probably not such a good idea,\" said Lawrence Palinkas, a medical anthropologist and professor of social policy and health at the University of Southern California, when asked about making the depression diagnosis public. \"These diagnoses carry a certain stigma \u2026 and the miners have no control over the conditions which caused this \u2013 which makes it all the more important that the government protect confidentiality.\"The selective release of video footage of the men has raised the question of how the Chilean government seeks to both help the miners while also shaping the perceptions of a worldwide audience.The latest video of the miners, a brief take with no audio released, showing the men in clean red shirts, many having had a fresh shave, was in stark contrast to the dirty and tired faces seen last week.", "tags": ["Chile", "Mining", "Business", "World news", "Environment", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile rescuers divided over how much to tell trapped miners"},{"date": "2010-09-01T10:40:52Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Owners of the Chilean mine where 33 workers face months awaiting rescue have appealed to the trapped men for forgiveness.Alejandro Bohn, a co-owner of the San Esteban mining company, which owns the San Jose mine, faced questioning from a government committee investigating safety failures that led to the accident.Speaking about those presently underground, Bohn said: \"The pain caused by this unwanted, unforeseen situation warrants we ask they forgive us for the anxiety they have suffered these days. It has been a terrible situation and we hope it ends very soon.\"His remarks came as Nasa medical advisers told the miners they should not be given any alcohol, for now, to help make their plight less uncomfortable. Cigarettes seem likely to be banned for the duration of the rescue.The Nasa team, who recently arrived in Chile and have studied videos of the men, said celebrities and even astronauts might be called in to help boost their spirits. Food, dry clothes, sleeping mats, medical supplies, projectors, videos and games have all been sent down narrow boreholes since the men were found alive 10 days ago.The priority is to nourish the miners, who have lost an estimated 10kg (22lbs) each during the 17 days they lay undiscovered after a tunnel collapse. High-calorie, high-protein nourishment is needed, as the men will have to move thousands of tonnes of rock to help their own rescue before they can be lifted back to the surface.\"From the alcohol standpoint, we need to first get their nutrition up before we make any considerations there,\" said James Michael Duncan, Nasa's deputy chief doctor, according to Reuters news agency.Some of the men have also asked for cigarettes, and health officials have sent them nicotine patches and gum as substitutes. \"It's an environment that's pretty enclosed and we don't want to contribute to any of the problems within the atmosphere of the mine,\" he said at a press conference in Santiago.There was a need to increase the miners' calorific intake, get them on a regular sleep schedule and ensure they remained optimistic. Duncan said: \"These miners showed us tremendous strength in surviving as long as they did without any contact with the surface. What we want to try to avoid is any kind of situation of hopelessness on the part of the miners.\"The men have moved to a drier spot 200 metres down a tunnel from their previous camp. Constant humidity has made sleeping difficult and led to severe skin infections. With signs that they are susceptible to ailments ranging from depression to extreme weight loss, the ministry of health has established a strict daily routine.\"We provide medication, we do tests \u2013 measure their blood pressure, temperature and waistline every day,\" said the health minister, Jaime Ma\u00f1alich. \"We vaccinated them, and established an adequate daily supply of water and food so they can begin to recover.\"In what he called an end to a period of \"stabilisation\", Ma\u00f1alich announced the priority was now to keep the men under constant medical supervision during their estimated three-month wait for rescue.The machine used for drilling the escape tunnel is expected to advance six metres a day. The Chilean president, Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, has named the rescue mission Operation San Lorenzo, in honour of the patron saint of miners.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Mining", "Environment", "Business", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile mine owners ask for forgiveness from trapped men"},{"date": "2010-08-23T14:30:38Z", "country": "chile", "content": "For Todd Russell, the plight of the 33 Chilean miners trapped in the San Jose mine has brought memories of the ordeal he went through in 2006. Russell, 34, and Brant Webb, 37, were caught in a safety cage almost a kilometre below the surface when an earthquake triggered a rockfall in the Beaconsfield gold mine in northern Tasmania. The two men were feared dead until emergency crews using a thermal imaging camera located them five days later. Here he describes to Alison Rourke the two weeks they spent trapped underground.\"We were stuck underground for 14 days in a small pocket of air. We couldn't stand up or even sit up. We had to lie down on our backs. If one of us was on our back, the other had to lie on his side for 14 days. We were tossing and turning on sharp rocks and being cut to pieces. We were really worried about the cuts getting infected.\"We had no food or water for the first six days. The only thing Brant had was a muesli bar which we shared between us for that first six days. We were really worried about dehydrating because it was 29 degrees down in the mine day and night. We had to urinate into our helmets so we could collect something to drink.\"We were never confident that they were going to get us out alive. We just had to rely on each other and keep positive. That's probably the best thing those miners in Chile can do to keep themselves alive. They should think of their families and loved ones and rely on their mates around them to get them through.\"Brant and I relied on each other's strengths. We bounced off each other and relied on each other for the whole 14 days. We made up stories and sang songs just to take our mind off things and tried to put our minds into a positive state.\"It was very dark down there of course but we did have some reserve lighting. It was also very hot and humid down there but, because of the flow through of air from fans that were blowing through into the level we were on, we were also suffering from hypothermia (because of the cold air blowing on our sweat). We had to cuddle each other to keep our body cores warm. We didn't have any communication with anyone for the first six days. We just tried to remain positive and hoped that what they did on the outside wouldn't kill us. We knew that the guys were working their way towards us. We could hear everything that was happening outside us and we could hear the underground machinery operating. We knew that they were coming but whether they thought we were alive or whether they thought they were coming to do a body recovery was another thing. We weren't found alive until day six.\"I personally don't think the miners in Chile will recover from this. We will never recover from our experience either. Life for us now is easier than it was four years ago but you've always got the constant memory with you for the whole of your life. It's going to be very hard for those guys and also their families because the families don't know from day to day whether their loved ones are going to survive the four months or whether they're going to perish where they are.\"That's the same sort of thing that happened with our families. For Brant and me the first four to six days were OK because we knew we were alive but for the families on the outside they didn't have any idea whether we were alive or not.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Chilean miners rescue", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Chile mine disaster brings back memories for Tasmanian miner"},{"date": "2010-08-13T17:34:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Community leaders on Easter Island have threatened to secede from Chile and transfer allegiance to Polynesian states in a row over land rights and immigration.Prominent families from the indigenous Rapa Nui population have told the Pacific Islands Forum, an inter-governmental body, that they wish to renounce Chilean sovereignty and be considered part of Oceania rather than the Americas.Easter Island is a remote speck in the Pacific 2,300 miles west of Chile. It was annexed by Santiago in 1888 and made a province of the Valparaiso region but is considered a special territory, not least because giant statues known as moais make it a Unesco world heritage site.Leviante Araki, head of the Rapa Nui \"parliament\", an advocacy group for indigenous people who comprise half the 5,000 population, requested secession in a letter this week to the Pacific Island Forum and Chile's President Sebastian Pinera. The would-be separatists resent what they say is an uncontrolled influx of tourists and settlers and accuse the government of taking over ancestral land with state offices. Protesters occupied several state-owned buildings.The protests were sparked by Pinera's appointment of a governor, Pedro Edmunds Paoa, who was suspected of plotting land deals. Paoa offered to resign and the president dispatched a team of troubleshooters to address locals' concerns. Government officials played down the threat of secession. Alberto Hotus, the octogenarian head of the island's elders' council, said the territory could not survive without mainland support.\"This island would be a disaster,\" he told the BBC. \"I remember when there was nothing more than muddy trails here. Thanks to the Chilean government it is different now, we owe them everything we have.\"Ethnically the islanders were Polynesian and American, he said. \"Chile is part of the American continent and we are part of Chile.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "Easter Island's indigenous leaders want to sever link with Chile"},{"date": "2010-08-24T13:00:43Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Dionisia was waiting her turn in the crowded medical centre, her baby bundled up on her back with a manta, the traditional multicoloured Andean cloth. \"My son has got a problem with his lungs,\" explained the young mother, who believes that it is due to the cold spell that has hit Lima.Dionisia lives in Manchay to the east of the Peruvian capital, a sprawl of plywood houses with makeshift roofs of corrugated iron, plastic or cardboard that offer little protection from the winds that sweep over the hills.For the first time in 40 years, temperatures in Lima fell to 8.8C at the end of July. Since then they have hovered around 13-15C. Houses are poorly insulated in Lima, and according to Percy Mosca of the Peruvian department of meteorology and hydrology, \"the cold is made worse by the unusually strong winds in the region, as well as high humidity of more than 80% and sometimes even 95%\".\"It's so cold your bones ache,\" said Dionisia. The whole of Peru is having an unusual cold spell as a result of La Ni\u00f1a, a cyclical climatic phenomenon leading to a cooling of the Pacific Ocean. But the drop in temperatures is also due to a mass of cold air from the south pole, which has also affected Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and southern Brazil.Unusually low temperatures of 10C have even reached the Amazonian forest, which is more used to recording figures of 20-30C.The Peruvian government is particularly concerned about the extent and duration of this bout of cold weather, which has hit 13 regions, about half the country. \"We have sent reinforcements to the medical centres and launched vaccination programmes, not only in the Andes where we do them every year, but in Amazonia as well,\" said Aquiles Vilchez, who is in charge of epidemiology at the ministry of health.There has also been an increase in the number of cases of pneumonia. \"However, the number of deaths due to such respiratory diseases is lower than last year,\" he stressed.Vilchez believes this shows that past experience has helped the country deal with the cold spell. Nevertheless, 250 children aged under five have died in Peru from cold-related respiratory diseases, mostly pneumonia, since the beginning of the year. Of these 64 came from the high Andes region of Puno, where temperatures sometimes fall below -20C.This article was first published in Le Monde", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Peru", "Lima", "Americas"], "title": "Extreme La Ni\u00f1a brings illness and misery to Peru"},{"date": "2010-08-24T09:22:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean miners trapped more than 670 metres (2,200ft) underground have started receiving food, water and oxygen from rescuers who are working to reinforce the 8cm borehole that will be their lifeline for the next few months.The men have not yet been told how long it will take to free them, said Andres Souggaret, who is leading the rescue operation.Through a newly installed communications system, each of the men at the San Jos\u00e9 mine reported feeling hungry but well, except for one who had a stomach problem.The first man answered the call \"Shift foreman here,\" as if he were on from an ordinary day at work. The miners have survived for 19 days on cans of tuna, milk and biscuits stored in the shelter.Sergio Aguila, a doctor on the rescue team, said the miners had carefully rationed their supplies. \"They had two little spoonfuls of tuna, a sip of milk and a biscuit every 48 hours,\" he said. He did not say how long the supplies lasted.Asked what they needed, the men listed canned peaches, toothbrushes and a chela \u2013 a cold beer.Chile's president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, said the nation was \"crying with excitement and joy\" after engineers broke through to the refuge on Sunday. The miners broke out in applause on hearing that their colleagues at the mouth of the mine had also survived the 5 August cave-in.When told the entire nation was praying for their survival, the men began an apparently spontaneous rendition of the Chilean national anthem, an eerie and moving sound as it filtered up through nearly 700 metres of makeshift communications line, bringing tears to the eyes of rescuers at the surface.Amid the national euphoria, doctors and experts were trying to safeguard the miners' psychological wellbeing by keeping them informed and busy.\"They need to understand what we know up here at the surface, that it will take many weeks for them to reach the light,\" said the health minister, Jaime Manalich.The miners reported that a shift foreman named Luis Urz\u00faa had assumed leadership of the trapped men.Engineers worked to reinforce the borehole that broke through to the refuge, using a long hose to coat its walls with a metallic gel to decrease the risk of rock falling and blocking the passage.The lubricant makes it easier to pass capsules nicknamed palomas, Spanish for dove. The first of the packages, which are about 5ft long, held rehydration tablets and a high-energy glucose gel to help the miners begin to recover their digestive systems. It took an hour for the packages to reach the trapped men.Rescue teams also sent oxygen down after the miners suggested there was not enough air in the stretches of the mine beneath the cave-in of the main shaft. They plan to include letters as well.\"Can you imagine? After 30 years of marriage we will start sending each other love letters again,\" said Lilianett Ram\u00edrez, whose 63-year-old husband, Mario G\u00f3mez is one of the trapped men. Ram\u00edrez, who has been waiting at the minehead for nearly three weeks, said: \"I want to tell him that I love him so much. I want to tell him that things will be different, that we will have a new life. I will wait as long as I need to see my husband again.\"The shelter where the men are trapped, a living-room-sized chamber off one of the mine's lower passages, big enough for all 33 men, is far enough from the landslide to remain intact. The men can also walk around below where the rocks fell. Food will be sent down in several days' time, after the men's stomachs have had time to adjust.Rescuers sent down questionnaires to determine each man's condition, along with medicine and small microphones to enable them to speak with their families during their long wait.Sougarret, manager of the state copper giant Codelco's El Teniente mine, said engineers would drill two more shafts. One would be to ensure ventilation and communication in the coming months; another, wider one would bring the miners to surface using a pulley.Engineers are transporting a more powerful drill from another mine and must decide where to bore the larger hole without risking further cave-ins. Sougarret said it would take three to four months to drill the extraction hole.The men already have been trapped underground longer than all but a few miners rescued in recent history. Last year, three miners survived 25 days trapped in a flooded mine in southern China, and in 1983 two miners in north-eastern China were rescued after 23 days. Few other rescues have taken more than two weeks.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Trapped Chilean miners start receiving food and water"},{"date": "2010-09-11T11:00:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Of the many military coups faced by the republics of Latin America, it is the coup of 11 September 1973 that has engraved itself most permanently on the collective memory. The images of the bombing of the Moneda Palace, of the despair on the face of Salvador Allende shortly before his suicide, of the defiant expression worn by Pinochet behind his dark glasses and of the public burning of books that circulated around the world and became the symbol of military brutality.The dispersal into exile of 200,000 Chileans, most of them to Europe, added to the media images of men and women who had seen their lives destroyed by the death or disappearance of friends and relatives. The murder of thousands of political opponents and the detention and torture of people who were identified with the constitutional government isolated the military regime internationally.The coup was supported by the US government of Richard Nixon. But after 1977, the Carter administration distanced itself from Pinochet because of his repeated violation of human rights. The regime remained in power for 16 years, becoming one of the longest lasting military dictatorships in Latin America, and it almost certainly introduced more changes than in any other country. Economic policy took a radical neoliberal turn under the influence of Milton Friedman. Allende's nationalisations were reversed and a programme of privatisations was introduced, together with the elimination of tariff barriers; this, alongside the banning of trade unions, produced a dramatic fall in real wages and an equally dramatic increase in business profits.During Pinochet's time there was a massive influx of foreign capital, which produced both significant economic growth and widening inequalities, most notably during the crisis of 1983 when unemployment reached 30% and 55% of the population fell below the poverty line. Despite all this, it could be said that the dictatorship was successful in economic terms, reversing the balance of social forces in favour of a business sector that enjoyed the unequivocal support of the state, for example in the forestry sector.Although it defended the neoliberal ideas of the Chicago School, the military government did not privatise the copper mines. In 1976 it created the National Copper Corporation (Codelco), which merged the nationalised mining companies and became the world's largest copper producer. In 1987 it drove through a copper law, which diverted 10% of copper exports to the armed forces budget.The armed forces thus became a powerful force with a capacity to exert pressure on society and the state. None of the governments that were elected after the restoration of democracy in 1990 were able to change that legislation, which made Chile's armed forces the second most powerful in the region after Brazil, with the highest military spending as a proportion of GDP (according to the Military Power Review).The legacy of 11 September 1973 goes far beyond the economy and the armed forces. The dictatorship's most devastating long-term effects are in education and the question of the Mapuches, Chile's southern indigenous people. Pinochet pushed through the education law just four days before leaving power; it placed the responsibility for education in the hands of the private sector at the same time as allowing complete freedom to create educational centres. The result was the deterioration of the quality of education, while making it prohibitively expensive. Working class people now struggle to get into university and have to make do with municipal secondary colleges \u2013 in other words, a second class education. In 2006 the so-called Penguins movement (thus named because of their school uniform) mobilised half a million school students in support of the de-privatisation of education and the rescinding of the law.The case of the Mapuches is even more serious, since it affects a population of over a million people who have lost their land and whose civic rights are restricted. When the Mapuches have in the past taken collective action, the anti-terrorist laws sanctioned by Pinochet have been used against them.Young Chileans are not interested in politics in the way their parents and grandparents were: 95% of 20-year-olds do not vote. They know they cannot change the world by taking up arms or achieving victories at the polls and they have no faith in professional politicians. Yet neither are they happy with the current situation. Perhaps that explains why there are in Chile hundreds, perhaps even thousands, of small groups devoted to cultural and social activities that can affect the immediate situation. It is, now, politics in a different form.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Chile: the other 9/11 anniversary | Ra\u00fal Zibechi"},{"date": "2010-07-09T23:05:03Z", "country": "chile", "content": "]The horse I hired was knackered and nameless, the chicha apple brew knocked me sideways, and I caught scabies in a cheap hotel. But I remember my week in Chilo\u00e9 as one of the happiest of my life. After the buzz of the South American mainland, I found on these Pacific islands a temperate wilderness of misty pastures, 3,000-year-old alerce forest, and a very particular people who cherish their geographical isolation.Two-thirds of the way down Chile's long, rugged coastline, the 40 or so small islands of Chilo\u00e9 are seldom visited by the mainland population. The archipelago is celebrated for its damp climate and high rainfall (residents of the capital Santiago make jokes about Chilot\u00e9s having webbed feet). But I was lucky. The sun shone for seven days. One afternoon, on the north coast of Isla Grande de Chilo\u00e9, the largest island in the group, the horse and I stopped at Ancud Bay. He stamped his arthritic legs while I watched flocks of oyster catchers and silvery grebe skimming the shallows. On the Patagonian horizon to the east, Andean volcanoes stood flat against an enamelled sky.\"We are not Chilean,\" a farmer's wife told me at Ancud market. \"Estamos Chilote, no mas.\" There was no nod to the Americanised cuisine of Santiago. For the entire week I lived off milcao, grated potato patties cooked in pork fat. Heaven.I didn't do much \u2013 just rode between flophouses of the $1-a-night variety, and drank chicha, the robust cider much loved in the interior. (It took my mind off the itching.) The plots of subsistence farmers harlequinned the land. Single churns were left to be collected at the end of lanes. The peaty light of fuchsia thickets and woodland held a stillness that had vanished from the mainland.Mountains wall off the exposed west coast of Isla Grande, a re-emergence of the coastal cordillera of Chile which sinks into the ocean somewhere south of Santiago. At Duhatoa, the last beach before the road ran out, the horse and I trekked along the dromedary line of the dunes, beyond bamboo-like quila stands where nature outdid itself in elaborate fructification. But down in the unpeopled south-west, industrial logging was making deadly inroads into old-growth forest.For 200 years, Chilo\u00e9 marked the southern frontier of Catholicism. When the first conquistadores canoed across from the South American mainland in the third quarter of the 16th century, 400 horses swam alongside them. Their legacy (the Spaniards', not the horses') survives in 100 wooden churches carved by the golden hands of Chilot\u00e9 craftsmen. The best carpenters were boat-builders, with the result that many churches look like upturned boats. At Colo, a village of three families, I sat on the low church wall to eat another chunk of pork fat. A pair of oxen swayed past drawing a sledge piled with timber. They were heading to the boat-building yard at Montmar. The ox driver sat next to me on the wall. He was 83.\"I suppose you've seen a lot of changes,\" I said, after we had chatted for a few minutes.He thought for a while. \"No tanto,\" he said \u2013 not so many.\u2022 Last Frontiers (01296 653000) offers a seven-day trip to Chilo\u00e9 from \u00a32,147 per person. The price includes internal and international flights, a night in Santiago, a visit to a penguin colony, a boat/kayak trip through a \"sunken forest\", accommodation in a family farmhouse and a stilt village hotel, all activities and most meals Sara Wheeler's latest book, The Magnetic North: Travels in the Arctic (Vintage, \u00a38.99), is out now", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Horse riding holidays"], "title": "My travels: Sara Wheeler in Chile"},{"date": "2010-09-01T19:54:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The 33 trapped Chilean miners were today delivered their first hot meals in nearly a month, as a debate broke out over how much information should be shared with the men before they are rescued.The first delivery of hot food \u2013 rice with meatballs \u2013 and cheese sandwiches was a sign that efforts to improve the men's living conditions 700 metres inside the San Jose mine are gradually bearing fruit.Rescue crews have promised that the trapped men will remain on a daily diet of about 2,500 calories, but at the rescue headquarters at the mine head, a fierce debate has begun over communication between the men and the outside world.Government psychologists are helping family members craft letters to the men in an effort to avoid upsetting them with any bad news from home. Newspapers sent to the men are allegedly censored, with disturbing crime stories removed.Government health officials are undecided over what movies the men should be shown on a video projector which was lowered into the shelter last week.\"They have told us to not ask any questions to the men in our letters,\" said Carolina Lobos, 26, daughter of trapped miner Franklin Lobos. \"We are supposed to write in a positive way that will bring them up.\"But Professor Nick Kanas, who has studied for over a decade the impact distance and isolation has on astronauts, and is co-author of Space Psychology and Psychiatry, warned that censoring the men's letters could create a climate of mistrust and suspicion between them and their rescuers: \"I would not screen anything; if you start to do that you are setting up a base for mistrust. The miners will then ask, 'What else are they hiding from me?'\"As Chile nears its national bicentennial, aides to President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era are looking for ways to include the miners in the national celebration. \"The whole nation will sing the national anthem at noon on the [September] 18th,\" said Ena Von Baer, a spokeswoman for the president. Asked whether that included the trapped miners, Van Baer said, \"When I say all Chileans, I mean every Chilean.\"\"That sounds tricky,\" said Kanas. \"It would be good in that it will link the miners to the surface and they will feel they are part of a celebration. But care should be given that the miners do not feel used by anyone else for their own advantage, that will not work very well.\"A poll released on Wednesday showed Pi\u00f1era's approval rating has jumped 10 points to 56% since the mining drama began nearly a month ago. Throughout the rescue operation, Pi\u00f1era has taken centre stage, positioning himself as the hard-nosed executive who will spare no cost to save the lives of his countrymen.Information about the miners' health has been released to the public, including a controversial statement by Jaime Manalich, the Chilean minister of health, who diagnosed five of the men as suffering from depression, then the next day announced they had been cured.\"That is probably not such a good idea,\" said Lawrence Palinkas, a medical anthropologist and professor of social policy and health at the University of Southern California, when asked about making the depression diagnosis public. \"These diagnoses carry a certain stigma \u2026 and the miners have no control over the conditions which caused this \u2013 which makes it all the more important that the government protect confidentiality.\"The selective release of video footage of the men has raised the question of how the Chilean government seeks to both help the miners while also shaping the perceptions of a worldwide audience.The latest video of the miners, a brief take with no audio released, showing the men in clean red shirts, many having had a fresh shave, was in stark contrast to the dirty and tired faces seen last week.", "tags": ["Chile", "Mining", "Business", "World news", "Environment", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile rescuers divided over how much to tell trapped miners"},{"date": "2010-09-01T10:40:52Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Owners of the Chilean mine where 33 workers face months awaiting rescue have appealed to the trapped men for forgiveness.Alejandro Bohn, a co-owner of the San Esteban mining company, which owns the San Jose mine, faced questioning from a government committee investigating safety failures that led to the accident.Speaking about those presently underground, Bohn said: \"The pain caused by this unwanted, unforeseen situation warrants we ask they forgive us for the anxiety they have suffered these days. It has been a terrible situation and we hope it ends very soon.\"His remarks came as Nasa medical advisers told the miners they should not be given any alcohol, for now, to help make their plight less uncomfortable. Cigarettes seem likely to be banned for the duration of the rescue.The Nasa team, who recently arrived in Chile and have studied videos of the men, said celebrities and even astronauts might be called in to help boost their spirits. Food, dry clothes, sleeping mats, medical supplies, projectors, videos and games have all been sent down narrow boreholes since the men were found alive 10 days ago.The priority is to nourish the miners, who have lost an estimated 10kg (22lbs) each during the 17 days they lay undiscovered after a tunnel collapse. High-calorie, high-protein nourishment is needed, as the men will have to move thousands of tonnes of rock to help their own rescue before they can be lifted back to the surface.\"From the alcohol standpoint, we need to first get their nutrition up before we make any considerations there,\" said James Michael Duncan, Nasa's deputy chief doctor, according to Reuters news agency.Some of the men have also asked for cigarettes, and health officials have sent them nicotine patches and gum as substitutes. \"It's an environment that's pretty enclosed and we don't want to contribute to any of the problems within the atmosphere of the mine,\" he said at a press conference in Santiago.There was a need to increase the miners' calorific intake, get them on a regular sleep schedule and ensure they remained optimistic. Duncan said: \"These miners showed us tremendous strength in surviving as long as they did without any contact with the surface. What we want to try to avoid is any kind of situation of hopelessness on the part of the miners.\"The men have moved to a drier spot 200 metres down a tunnel from their previous camp. Constant humidity has made sleeping difficult and led to severe skin infections. With signs that they are susceptible to ailments ranging from depression to extreme weight loss, the ministry of health has established a strict daily routine.\"We provide medication, we do tests \u2013 measure their blood pressure, temperature and waistline every day,\" said the health minister, Jaime Ma\u00f1alich. \"We vaccinated them, and established an adequate daily supply of water and food so they can begin to recover.\"In what he called an end to a period of \"stabilisation\", Ma\u00f1alich announced the priority was now to keep the men under constant medical supervision during their estimated three-month wait for rescue.The machine used for drilling the escape tunnel is expected to advance six metres a day. The Chilean president, Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, has named the rescue mission Operation San Lorenzo, in honour of the patron saint of miners.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Mining", "Environment", "Business", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile mine owners ask for forgiveness from trapped men"},{"date": "2010-08-23T14:30:38Z", "country": "chile", "content": "For Todd Russell, the plight of the 33 Chilean miners trapped in the San Jose mine has brought memories of the ordeal he went through in 2006. Russell, 34, and Brant Webb, 37, were caught in a safety cage almost a kilometre below the surface when an earthquake triggered a rockfall in the Beaconsfield gold mine in northern Tasmania. The two men were feared dead until emergency crews using a thermal imaging camera located them five days later. Here he describes to Alison Rourke the two weeks they spent trapped underground.\"We were stuck underground for 14 days in a small pocket of air. We couldn't stand up or even sit up. We had to lie down on our backs. If one of us was on our back, the other had to lie on his side for 14 days. We were tossing and turning on sharp rocks and being cut to pieces. We were really worried about the cuts getting infected.\"We had no food or water for the first six days. The only thing Brant had was a muesli bar which we shared between us for that first six days. We were really worried about dehydrating because it was 29 degrees down in the mine day and night. We had to urinate into our helmets so we could collect something to drink.\"We were never confident that they were going to get us out alive. We just had to rely on each other and keep positive. That's probably the best thing those miners in Chile can do to keep themselves alive. They should think of their families and loved ones and rely on their mates around them to get them through.\"Brant and I relied on each other's strengths. We bounced off each other and relied on each other for the whole 14 days. We made up stories and sang songs just to take our mind off things and tried to put our minds into a positive state.\"It was very dark down there of course but we did have some reserve lighting. It was also very hot and humid down there but, because of the flow through of air from fans that were blowing through into the level we were on, we were also suffering from hypothermia (because of the cold air blowing on our sweat). We had to cuddle each other to keep our body cores warm. We didn't have any communication with anyone for the first six days. We just tried to remain positive and hoped that what they did on the outside wouldn't kill us. We knew that the guys were working their way towards us. We could hear everything that was happening outside us and we could hear the underground machinery operating. We knew that they were coming but whether they thought we were alive or whether they thought they were coming to do a body recovery was another thing. We weren't found alive until day six.\"I personally don't think the miners in Chile will recover from this. We will never recover from our experience either. Life for us now is easier than it was four years ago but you've always got the constant memory with you for the whole of your life. It's going to be very hard for those guys and also their families because the families don't know from day to day whether their loved ones are going to survive the four months or whether they're going to perish where they are.\"That's the same sort of thing that happened with our families. For Brant and me the first four to six days were OK because we knew we were alive but for the families on the outside they didn't have any idea whether we were alive or not.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Chilean miners rescue", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Chile mine disaster brings back memories for Tasmanian miner"},{"date": "2010-08-13T17:34:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Community leaders on Easter Island have threatened to secede from Chile and transfer allegiance to Polynesian states in a row over land rights and immigration.Prominent families from the indigenous Rapa Nui population have told the Pacific Islands Forum, an inter-governmental body, that they wish to renounce Chilean sovereignty and be considered part of Oceania rather than the Americas.Easter Island is a remote speck in the Pacific 2,300 miles west of Chile. It was annexed by Santiago in 1888 and made a province of the Valparaiso region but is considered a special territory, not least because giant statues known as moais make it a Unesco world heritage site.Leviante Araki, head of the Rapa Nui \"parliament\", an advocacy group for indigenous people who comprise half the 5,000 population, requested secession in a letter this week to the Pacific Island Forum and Chile's President Sebastian Pinera. The would-be separatists resent what they say is an uncontrolled influx of tourists and settlers and accuse the government of taking over ancestral land with state offices. Protesters occupied several state-owned buildings.The protests were sparked by Pinera's appointment of a governor, Pedro Edmunds Paoa, who was suspected of plotting land deals. Paoa offered to resign and the president dispatched a team of troubleshooters to address locals' concerns. Government officials played down the threat of secession. Alberto Hotus, the octogenarian head of the island's elders' council, said the territory could not survive without mainland support.\"This island would be a disaster,\" he told the BBC. \"I remember when there was nothing more than muddy trails here. Thanks to the Chilean government it is different now, we owe them everything we have.\"Ethnically the islanders were Polynesian and American, he said. \"Chile is part of the American continent and we are part of Chile.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news"], "title": "Easter Island's indigenous leaders want to sever link with Chile"},{"date": "2010-08-24T13:00:43Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Dionisia was waiting her turn in the crowded medical centre, her baby bundled up on her back with a manta, the traditional multicoloured Andean cloth. \"My son has got a problem with his lungs,\" explained the young mother, who believes that it is due to the cold spell that has hit Lima.Dionisia lives in Manchay to the east of the Peruvian capital, a sprawl of plywood houses with makeshift roofs of corrugated iron, plastic or cardboard that offer little protection from the winds that sweep over the hills.For the first time in 40 years, temperatures in Lima fell to 8.8C at the end of July. Since then they have hovered around 13-15C. Houses are poorly insulated in Lima, and according to Percy Mosca of the Peruvian department of meteorology and hydrology, \"the cold is made worse by the unusually strong winds in the region, as well as high humidity of more than 80% and sometimes even 95%\".\"It's so cold your bones ache,\" said Dionisia. The whole of Peru is having an unusual cold spell as a result of La Ni\u00f1a, a cyclical climatic phenomenon leading to a cooling of the Pacific Ocean. But the drop in temperatures is also due to a mass of cold air from the south pole, which has also affected Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay and southern Brazil.Unusually low temperatures of 10C have even reached the Amazonian forest, which is more used to recording figures of 20-30C.The Peruvian government is particularly concerned about the extent and duration of this bout of cold weather, which has hit 13 regions, about half the country. \"We have sent reinforcements to the medical centres and launched vaccination programmes, not only in the Andes where we do them every year, but in Amazonia as well,\" said Aquiles Vilchez, who is in charge of epidemiology at the ministry of health.There has also been an increase in the number of cases of pneumonia. \"However, the number of deaths due to such respiratory diseases is lower than last year,\" he stressed.Vilchez believes this shows that past experience has helped the country deal with the cold spell. Nevertheless, 250 children aged under five have died in Peru from cold-related respiratory diseases, mostly pneumonia, since the beginning of the year. Of these 64 came from the high Andes region of Puno, where temperatures sometimes fall below -20C.This article was first published in Le Monde", "tags": ["Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Peru", "Lima", "Americas"], "title": "Extreme La Ni\u00f1a brings illness and misery to Peru"},{"date": "2010-08-24T09:22:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean miners trapped more than 670 metres (2,200ft) underground have started receiving food, water and oxygen from rescuers who are working to reinforce the 8cm borehole that will be their lifeline for the next few months.The men have not yet been told how long it will take to free them, said Andres Souggaret, who is leading the rescue operation.Through a newly installed communications system, each of the men at the San Jos\u00e9 mine reported feeling hungry but well, except for one who had a stomach problem.The first man answered the call \"Shift foreman here,\" as if he were on from an ordinary day at work. The miners have survived for 19 days on cans of tuna, milk and biscuits stored in the shelter.Sergio Aguila, a doctor on the rescue team, said the miners had carefully rationed their supplies. \"They had two little spoonfuls of tuna, a sip of milk and a biscuit every 48 hours,\" he said. He did not say how long the supplies lasted.Asked what they needed, the men listed canned peaches, toothbrushes and a chela \u2013 a cold beer.Chile's president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, said the nation was \"crying with excitement and joy\" after engineers broke through to the refuge on Sunday. The miners broke out in applause on hearing that their colleagues at the mouth of the mine had also survived the 5 August cave-in.When told the entire nation was praying for their survival, the men began an apparently spontaneous rendition of the Chilean national anthem, an eerie and moving sound as it filtered up through nearly 700 metres of makeshift communications line, bringing tears to the eyes of rescuers at the surface.Amid the national euphoria, doctors and experts were trying to safeguard the miners' psychological wellbeing by keeping them informed and busy.\"They need to understand what we know up here at the surface, that it will take many weeks for them to reach the light,\" said the health minister, Jaime Manalich.The miners reported that a shift foreman named Luis Urz\u00faa had assumed leadership of the trapped men.Engineers worked to reinforce the borehole that broke through to the refuge, using a long hose to coat its walls with a metallic gel to decrease the risk of rock falling and blocking the passage.The lubricant makes it easier to pass capsules nicknamed palomas, Spanish for dove. The first of the packages, which are about 5ft long, held rehydration tablets and a high-energy glucose gel to help the miners begin to recover their digestive systems. It took an hour for the packages to reach the trapped men.Rescue teams also sent oxygen down after the miners suggested there was not enough air in the stretches of the mine beneath the cave-in of the main shaft. They plan to include letters as well.\"Can you imagine? After 30 years of marriage we will start sending each other love letters again,\" said Lilianett Ram\u00edrez, whose 63-year-old husband, Mario G\u00f3mez is one of the trapped men. Ram\u00edrez, who has been waiting at the minehead for nearly three weeks, said: \"I want to tell him that I love him so much. I want to tell him that things will be different, that we will have a new life. I will wait as long as I need to see my husband again.\"The shelter where the men are trapped, a living-room-sized chamber off one of the mine's lower passages, big enough for all 33 men, is far enough from the landslide to remain intact. The men can also walk around below where the rocks fell. Food will be sent down in several days' time, after the men's stomachs have had time to adjust.Rescuers sent down questionnaires to determine each man's condition, along with medicine and small microphones to enable them to speak with their families during their long wait.Sougarret, manager of the state copper giant Codelco's El Teniente mine, said engineers would drill two more shafts. One would be to ensure ventilation and communication in the coming months; another, wider one would bring the miners to surface using a pulley.Engineers are transporting a more powerful drill from another mine and must decide where to bore the larger hole without risking further cave-ins. Sougarret said it would take three to four months to drill the extraction hole.The men already have been trapped underground longer than all but a few miners rescued in recent history. Last year, three miners survived 25 days trapped in a flooded mine in southern China, and in 1983 two miners in north-eastern China were rescued after 23 days. Few other rescues have taken more than two weeks.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Trapped Chilean miners start receiving food and water"},{"date": "2010-08-02T16:42:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Israel In 2008, four suspects were charged with neo-Nazi activities. They were members of a gang called Patrol\u00a035 which targeted other minorities and desecrated synagogues. Some of the gang were Soviet immigrants who refused to accept their Jewish ancestry.Chile Patria Nueva Sociedad (New Fatherland Society) is a well-organised neo-Nazi group in Chile. Its leaders claim to adhere to Nazi economic and labour principles but say the group is against xenophobia, racism and discrimination.Russia Neo-Nazi gangs such as the White Wolves have resorted to lethal violence to get across their message of white supremacy. Gang members were jailed this year after several central Asian migrants were attacked and killed in Moscow's back streets.Taiwan In 2007 university students formed the National Socialism Association. The group claimed to have 800 members and a spokesperson said: \"We want to study Hitler's good points, not study his massacres.\"India A growing trend for Hitler memorabilia in India has caused shock. One publisher claims to have sold more than 100,000 copies of Mein Kampf (left) to Indians in the last 10 years. Some Indians have claimed to be inspired by Hitler's \"discipline and patriotism\".Jason Rodrigues", "tags": ["The far right", "World news", "Israel", "India", "Taiwan", "Russia", "Chile", "Europe", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The global reach of neo-Nazis"},{"date": "2010-10-21T19:23:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the Guardian on Monday, Peter Preston provocatively wondered \"whether a triumphant President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era of Chile would be in Britain\u2026 basking in praise for his mine rescue\u2026 if the Pinochet years hadn't happened.\" Preston didn't play down the brutality of the dictator's rule from 1973 to 1990 \u2013 this was the Guardian not the Daily Telegraph, after all \u2013 but he did suggest that Pinochet's \"malignity\" had acted as the main catalyst for the creation of the more benign, politically moderate, technologically sophisticated Chile, which the world's media are currently admiring.I'm not so sure. Ever since it gained independence from Spain in the early 19th century, Chile has, in fact, been periodically acclaimed abroad for its industriousness, democracy and stability. This praise has sometimes been a bit broad-brush, neglecting to mention the country's 1891 civil war or its intermittent periods of authoritarian rule \u2013 even before Pinochet seized power from Salvador Allende. But this characterisation of Chile, with the country sometimes called \"the England of the Pacific\", has always had a degree of truth to it.State-of-the-art mining enterprises \u2013 many of the original ones set up by English immigrants \u2013 have been making parts of Chile rich for two centuries. Mild Chilean statesmen are not a purely post-Pinochet phenomenon, either. Forty-five years ago, a predecessor of Pi\u00f1era's as president, the Christian Democrat Eduardo Frei, who was overseeing a cautious programme of nationalisation and land redistribution in Chile called the \"Revolution in Liberty\", made an official visit to London and was hailed in the British press as \"A Key Figure In Latin America\". For a few years in the mid 1960s, western governments alarmed by Fidel Castro's revolutionary regime in Cuba promoted Frei's reforms as an alternative model for the region. Today, with the South American left again wielding considerable power, the sudden western enthusiasm for the centre-right Pi\u00f1era is following a similar pattern.In Chile in 1970, famously, the Frei government was succeeded by the much more radical and controversial Allende administration. But even that had its middle-of-the-road and technocratic aspects. Allende was solidly bourgeois by background, a freemason and a former senior doctor, and often a political compromiser \u2013 too often, said his critics further to the left \u2013 rather than a dogmatic Castro-style leader. And the Allende government, despite its mounting troubles, oversaw projects as complex and daring as the recent mine rescue, such as the installation of an experimental but functioning \"socialist internet\", with the help of the British cybernetics pioneer Stafford Beer (an episode I described in the Guardian in 2003).Chile did not need to undergo the horrors of the Pinochet era that followed to get to where it is today. The Chile that foreign commentators are presently so impressed by is the one that has long been there.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "How Chile mines its past | Andy Beckett"},{"date": "2010-10-21T19:23:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the Guardian on Monday, Peter Preston provocatively wondered \"whether a triumphant President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era of Chile would be in Britain\u2026 basking in praise for his mine rescue\u2026 if the Pinochet years hadn't happened.\" Preston didn't play down the brutality of the dictator's rule from 1973 to 1990 \u2013 this was the Guardian not the Daily Telegraph, after all \u2013 but he did suggest that Pinochet's \"malignity\" had acted as the main catalyst for the creation of the more benign, politically moderate, technologically sophisticated Chile, which the world's media are currently admiring.I'm not so sure. Ever since it gained independence from Spain in the early 19th century, Chile has, in fact, been periodically acclaimed abroad for its industriousness, democracy and stability. This praise has sometimes been a bit broad-brush, neglecting to mention the country's 1891 civil war or its intermittent periods of authoritarian rule \u2013 even before Pinochet seized power from Salvador Allende. But this characterisation of Chile, with the country sometimes called \"the England of the Pacific\", has always had a degree of truth to it.State-of-the-art mining enterprises \u2013 many of the original ones set up by English immigrants \u2013 have been making parts of Chile rich for two centuries. Mild Chilean statesmen are not a purely post-Pinochet phenomenon, either. Forty-five years ago, a predecessor of Pi\u00f1era's as president, the Christian Democrat Eduardo Frei, who was overseeing a cautious programme of nationalisation and land redistribution in Chile called the \"Revolution in Liberty\", made an official visit to London and was hailed in the British press as \"A Key Figure In Latin America\". For a few years in the mid 1960s, western governments alarmed by Fidel Castro's revolutionary regime in Cuba promoted Frei's reforms as an alternative model for the region. Today, with the South American left again wielding considerable power, the sudden western enthusiasm for the centre-right Pi\u00f1era is following a similar pattern.In Chile in 1970, famously, the Frei government was succeeded by the much more radical and controversial Allende administration. But even that had its middle-of-the-road and technocratic aspects. Allende was solidly bourgeois by background, a freemason and a former senior doctor, and often a political compromiser \u2013 too often, said his critics further to the left \u2013 rather than a dogmatic Castro-style leader. And the Allende government, despite its mounting troubles, oversaw projects as complex and daring as the recent mine rescue, such as the installation of an experimental but functioning \"socialist internet\", with the help of the British cybernetics pioneer Stafford Beer (an episode I described in the Guardian in 2003).Chile did not need to undergo the horrors of the Pinochet era that followed to get to where it is today. The Chile that foreign commentators are presently so impressed by is the one that has long been there.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "How Chile mines its past | Andy Beckett"},{"date": "2010-11-10T03:29:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A dynamite explosion has killed two workers at an illegal mine near the site of Chile's famous rescue, underlining continued safety problems in the industry and prompting the mine owner to reportedly flee the country.Monday's accident killed Homero Aguirre, 40, and Daniel Lazcano, 26, on their first day at the mine in the Atacama desert, near another mine from which 33 men were rescued last month.Old detonators apparently reacted to the heat and humidity and exploded prematurely, killing the pair and causing a third man to lose an eye from a flying rock.Hours later the Mexican owner flew to Argentina, according to the newsagency Efe, citing sources close to the investigation.The incident in an area of the desert known as Los Reyes \u2013 The Kings \u2013 was a melancholy sequel to the euphoria which greeted the escape of \"los 33\" and highlighted the lax enforcement of safety regulations of the gold and copper mines which dot the Atacama.The National Geology and Mining Service said the mine was new, illegal and unregistered. \"We did not know it existed,\" an agency official, Mariano Garrido, told reporters.President Sebastian Pi\u00f1era vowed to improve mining safety after the drama of saving men trapped underground for 69 days. He said the mine would shut for ever and gave pieces of rock from the site \u2013 considered to have divine properties by some of the rescued men's families \u2013 to the Queen and other European dignitaries.The 33 men have accepted an Israeli invitation for a week-long, all expenses paid visit to the Holy Land for Christmas, Israel's foreign ministry said yesterday.As they tour the world, however, other miners continue to take risks in the Atacama desert.With copper prices at near record highs illicit operators stand to make lucrative profits by continuing to operate in the area. Some offer bonus salaries to compensate miners for the lack of safety measures.Low inventories and booming demand from China have pushed prices up to $8,882 (\u00a35,561) a tonne, just shy of the $8,940 record set in 2008. A strike at Chile's Collahuasi mine, one of the world's biggest, has also nudged up prices this week.", "tags": ["Chile", "Mining", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile mine explosion kills two men"},{"date": "2010-10-21T19:23:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the Guardian on Monday, Peter Preston provocatively wondered \"whether a triumphant President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era of Chile would be in Britain\u2026 basking in praise for his mine rescue\u2026 if the Pinochet years hadn't happened.\" Preston didn't play down the brutality of the dictator's rule from 1973 to 1990 \u2013 this was the Guardian not the Daily Telegraph, after all \u2013 but he did suggest that Pinochet's \"malignity\" had acted as the main catalyst for the creation of the more benign, politically moderate, technologically sophisticated Chile, which the world's media are currently admiring.I'm not so sure. Ever since it gained independence from Spain in the early 19th century, Chile has, in fact, been periodically acclaimed abroad for its industriousness, democracy and stability. This praise has sometimes been a bit broad-brush, neglecting to mention the country's 1891 civil war or its intermittent periods of authoritarian rule \u2013 even before Pinochet seized power from Salvador Allende. But this characterisation of Chile, with the country sometimes called \"the England of the Pacific\", has always had a degree of truth to it.State-of-the-art mining enterprises \u2013 many of the original ones set up by English immigrants \u2013 have been making parts of Chile rich for two centuries. Mild Chilean statesmen are not a purely post-Pinochet phenomenon, either. Forty-five years ago, a predecessor of Pi\u00f1era's as president, the Christian Democrat Eduardo Frei, who was overseeing a cautious programme of nationalisation and land redistribution in Chile called the \"Revolution in Liberty\", made an official visit to London and was hailed in the British press as \"A Key Figure In Latin America\". For a few years in the mid 1960s, western governments alarmed by Fidel Castro's revolutionary regime in Cuba promoted Frei's reforms as an alternative model for the region. Today, with the South American left again wielding considerable power, the sudden western enthusiasm for the centre-right Pi\u00f1era is following a similar pattern.In Chile in 1970, famously, the Frei government was succeeded by the much more radical and controversial Allende administration. But even that had its middle-of-the-road and technocratic aspects. Allende was solidly bourgeois by background, a freemason and a former senior doctor, and often a political compromiser \u2013 too often, said his critics further to the left \u2013 rather than a dogmatic Castro-style leader. And the Allende government, despite its mounting troubles, oversaw projects as complex and daring as the recent mine rescue, such as the installation of an experimental but functioning \"socialist internet\", with the help of the British cybernetics pioneer Stafford Beer (an episode I described in the Guardian in 2003).Chile did not need to undergo the horrors of the Pinochet era that followed to get to where it is today. The Chile that foreign commentators are presently so impressed by is the one that has long been there.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "How Chile mines its past | Andy Beckett"},{"date": "2010-11-10T03:29:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A dynamite explosion has killed two workers at an illegal mine near the site of Chile's famous rescue, underlining continued safety problems in the industry and prompting the mine owner to reportedly flee the country.Monday's accident killed Homero Aguirre, 40, and Daniel Lazcano, 26, on their first day at the mine in the Atacama desert, near another mine from which 33 men were rescued last month.Old detonators apparently reacted to the heat and humidity and exploded prematurely, killing the pair and causing a third man to lose an eye from a flying rock.Hours later the Mexican owner flew to Argentina, according to the newsagency Efe, citing sources close to the investigation.The incident in an area of the desert known as Los Reyes \u2013 The Kings \u2013 was a melancholy sequel to the euphoria which greeted the escape of \"los 33\" and highlighted the lax enforcement of safety regulations of the gold and copper mines which dot the Atacama.The National Geology and Mining Service said the mine was new, illegal and unregistered. \"We did not know it existed,\" an agency official, Mariano Garrido, told reporters.President Sebastian Pi\u00f1era vowed to improve mining safety after the drama of saving men trapped underground for 69 days. He said the mine would shut for ever and gave pieces of rock from the site \u2013 considered to have divine properties by some of the rescued men's families \u2013 to the Queen and other European dignitaries.The 33 men have accepted an Israeli invitation for a week-long, all expenses paid visit to the Holy Land for Christmas, Israel's foreign ministry said yesterday.As they tour the world, however, other miners continue to take risks in the Atacama desert.With copper prices at near record highs illicit operators stand to make lucrative profits by continuing to operate in the area. Some offer bonus salaries to compensate miners for the lack of safety measures.Low inventories and booming demand from China have pushed prices up to $8,882 (\u00a35,561) a tonne, just shy of the $8,940 record set in 2008. A strike at Chile's Collahuasi mine, one of the world's biggest, has also nudged up prices this week.", "tags": ["Chile", "Mining", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile mine explosion kills two men"},{"date": "2010-10-14T09:39:27Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The long ordeal of the 33 trapped Chilean miners is finally at an end \u2013 and the buzz about book deals and film rights to the men's dramatic story has already begun.The miners themselves are reported to have made a pact to collaborate on their own book, but in the UK the first book was signed up on Monday, before the rescue had even begun. Freelance journalist Jonathan Franklin, who has covered the dramatic story for the Guardian from day one, is to pen an account of the saga, provisionally titled 33 Men, for publisher Transworld.Franklin, who is an American but has lived in the Chile's capital Santiago for 15 years, spoke about the book on his mobile phone from Chile, after 48 sleepless hours covering the emotional scenes as the miners emerged.\"This is one of the great rescue stories of all time,\" he said, admitting he himself had wept as the first miners were released on Tuesday night. \"It's the reason we all want to be reporters: a remarkable story of the world coming together for a good reason. It taps into human altruism, the desire to work together, perseverance, faith that good things happen, never giving up.\" The early chapters of the book, he said, were already written.As a journalist, Franklin had had \"a backstage pass to the whole thing. I was allowed to tape record the psychologist talking to the [trapped] men, I spent last night in the hospital talking to the [newly freed] miners.\" He intends his book to reveal the characters of the miners themselves (\"You could probably do a book on every one of them\") and reflect their black humour: one of the men played dead, for a joke, during the first 17 days spent in the collapsed mine without food, while another attempted phone sex with the nurse who was attending to him 700m above.Transworld publisher Bill Scott-Kerr, who bought 33 Men at last week's Frankfurt Book Fair, said: \"As far as I'm aware, Franklin is the only print journalist in the inner circle at the mine, party to a lot of the strategy and to the stories of the relatives at the top, the wives and girlfriends.\" He added: \"What I think is really interesting, apart from the drama of the story itself, is the miners' lives in this isolated outpost in Chile, which is a bit like the Wild West. People seem to live by their own rules, and it's a very rugged existence - tough people living in a tough place.\"The publication date for the book is still to be confirmed. \"It'll be sooner rather than later, but I don't want Franklin to compromise the depth and breadth of the story by making it a rush job,\" Scott-Kerr said.Literary agent Annabel Merullo at Peters, Fraser and Dunlop, who is handling the book, said it had also sold to France and Germany, with film interest from the US.\"It's happened so quickly,\" she said. \"When the story broke, we talked about it at the agency and said, 'Is there a book in it?' We decided there only was if we could get someone really good to write it. Jonathan's coverage was so much better than everyone else's. He has incredible access at the mines and he's covered the story from day one.\"", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Chile miners' story signed up by publishers"},{"date": "2010-10-21T19:23:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the Guardian on Monday, Peter Preston provocatively wondered \"whether a triumphant President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era of Chile would be in Britain\u2026 basking in praise for his mine rescue\u2026 if the Pinochet years hadn't happened.\" Preston didn't play down the brutality of the dictator's rule from 1973 to 1990 \u2013 this was the Guardian not the Daily Telegraph, after all \u2013 but he did suggest that Pinochet's \"malignity\" had acted as the main catalyst for the creation of the more benign, politically moderate, technologically sophisticated Chile, which the world's media are currently admiring.I'm not so sure. Ever since it gained independence from Spain in the early 19th century, Chile has, in fact, been periodically acclaimed abroad for its industriousness, democracy and stability. This praise has sometimes been a bit broad-brush, neglecting to mention the country's 1891 civil war or its intermittent periods of authoritarian rule \u2013 even before Pinochet seized power from Salvador Allende. But this characterisation of Chile, with the country sometimes called \"the England of the Pacific\", has always had a degree of truth to it.State-of-the-art mining enterprises \u2013 many of the original ones set up by English immigrants \u2013 have been making parts of Chile rich for two centuries. Mild Chilean statesmen are not a purely post-Pinochet phenomenon, either. Forty-five years ago, a predecessor of Pi\u00f1era's as president, the Christian Democrat Eduardo Frei, who was overseeing a cautious programme of nationalisation and land redistribution in Chile called the \"Revolution in Liberty\", made an official visit to London and was hailed in the British press as \"A Key Figure In Latin America\". For a few years in the mid 1960s, western governments alarmed by Fidel Castro's revolutionary regime in Cuba promoted Frei's reforms as an alternative model for the region. Today, with the South American left again wielding considerable power, the sudden western enthusiasm for the centre-right Pi\u00f1era is following a similar pattern.In Chile in 1970, famously, the Frei government was succeeded by the much more radical and controversial Allende administration. But even that had its middle-of-the-road and technocratic aspects. Allende was solidly bourgeois by background, a freemason and a former senior doctor, and often a political compromiser \u2013 too often, said his critics further to the left \u2013 rather than a dogmatic Castro-style leader. And the Allende government, despite its mounting troubles, oversaw projects as complex and daring as the recent mine rescue, such as the installation of an experimental but functioning \"socialist internet\", with the help of the British cybernetics pioneer Stafford Beer (an episode I described in the Guardian in 2003).Chile did not need to undergo the horrors of the Pinochet era that followed to get to where it is today. The Chile that foreign commentators are presently so impressed by is the one that has long been there.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "How Chile mines its past | Andy Beckett"},{"date": "2010-11-10T03:29:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A dynamite explosion has killed two workers at an illegal mine near the site of Chile's famous rescue, underlining continued safety problems in the industry and prompting the mine owner to reportedly flee the country.Monday's accident killed Homero Aguirre, 40, and Daniel Lazcano, 26, on their first day at the mine in the Atacama desert, near another mine from which 33 men were rescued last month.Old detonators apparently reacted to the heat and humidity and exploded prematurely, killing the pair and causing a third man to lose an eye from a flying rock.Hours later the Mexican owner flew to Argentina, according to the newsagency Efe, citing sources close to the investigation.The incident in an area of the desert known as Los Reyes \u2013 The Kings \u2013 was a melancholy sequel to the euphoria which greeted the escape of \"los 33\" and highlighted the lax enforcement of safety regulations of the gold and copper mines which dot the Atacama.The National Geology and Mining Service said the mine was new, illegal and unregistered. \"We did not know it existed,\" an agency official, Mariano Garrido, told reporters.President Sebastian Pi\u00f1era vowed to improve mining safety after the drama of saving men trapped underground for 69 days. He said the mine would shut for ever and gave pieces of rock from the site \u2013 considered to have divine properties by some of the rescued men's families \u2013 to the Queen and other European dignitaries.The 33 men have accepted an Israeli invitation for a week-long, all expenses paid visit to the Holy Land for Christmas, Israel's foreign ministry said yesterday.As they tour the world, however, other miners continue to take risks in the Atacama desert.With copper prices at near record highs illicit operators stand to make lucrative profits by continuing to operate in the area. Some offer bonus salaries to compensate miners for the lack of safety measures.Low inventories and booming demand from China have pushed prices up to $8,882 (\u00a35,561) a tonne, just shy of the $8,940 record set in 2008. A strike at Chile's Collahuasi mine, one of the world's biggest, has also nudged up prices this week.", "tags": ["Chile", "Mining", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile mine explosion kills two men"},{"date": "2010-10-14T09:39:27Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The long ordeal of the 33 trapped Chilean miners is finally at an end \u2013 and the buzz about book deals and film rights to the men's dramatic story has already begun.The miners themselves are reported to have made a pact to collaborate on their own book, but in the UK the first book was signed up on Monday, before the rescue had even begun. Freelance journalist Jonathan Franklin, who has covered the dramatic story for the Guardian from day one, is to pen an account of the saga, provisionally titled 33 Men, for publisher Transworld.Franklin, who is an American but has lived in the Chile's capital Santiago for 15 years, spoke about the book on his mobile phone from Chile, after 48 sleepless hours covering the emotional scenes as the miners emerged.\"This is one of the great rescue stories of all time,\" he said, admitting he himself had wept as the first miners were released on Tuesday night. \"It's the reason we all want to be reporters: a remarkable story of the world coming together for a good reason. It taps into human altruism, the desire to work together, perseverance, faith that good things happen, never giving up.\" The early chapters of the book, he said, were already written.As a journalist, Franklin had had \"a backstage pass to the whole thing. I was allowed to tape record the psychologist talking to the [trapped] men, I spent last night in the hospital talking to the [newly freed] miners.\" He intends his book to reveal the characters of the miners themselves (\"You could probably do a book on every one of them\") and reflect their black humour: one of the men played dead, for a joke, during the first 17 days spent in the collapsed mine without food, while another attempted phone sex with the nurse who was attending to him 700m above.Transworld publisher Bill Scott-Kerr, who bought 33 Men at last week's Frankfurt Book Fair, said: \"As far as I'm aware, Franklin is the only print journalist in the inner circle at the mine, party to a lot of the strategy and to the stories of the relatives at the top, the wives and girlfriends.\" He added: \"What I think is really interesting, apart from the drama of the story itself, is the miners' lives in this isolated outpost in Chile, which is a bit like the Wild West. People seem to live by their own rules, and it's a very rugged existence - tough people living in a tough place.\"The publication date for the book is still to be confirmed. \"It'll be sooner rather than later, but I don't want Franklin to compromise the depth and breadth of the story by making it a rush job,\" Scott-Kerr said.Literary agent Annabel Merullo at Peters, Fraser and Dunlop, who is handling the book, said it had also sold to France and Germany, with film interest from the US.\"It's happened so quickly,\" she said. \"When the story broke, we talked about it at the agency and said, 'Is there a book in it?' We decided there only was if we could get someone really good to write it. Jonathan's coverage was so much better than everyone else's. He has incredible access at the mines and he's covered the story from day one.\"", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Chile miners' story signed up by publishers"},{"date": "2010-10-15T20:27:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The 33 rescued Chilean miners have undergone extensive medical checks since being hauled to the surface, but doctors believe that most of them are in surprisingly good health after their two-month ordeal.At least one of the men is believed to have suffered a perforated eardrum in the catastrophic rockfall which sealed the San Jos\u00e9 mine, and may require surgery. Another is being treated for pneumonia, but the most common complaint among the men is toothache.One man, Osm\u00e1n Araya, was in so much pain from an infected tooth that, for the last few nights in the mine, he was told to sleep sitting up and take painkillers. For Araya, surgery is almost certainly necessary, according to a nurse who had access to his medical files.John Milne, chair of the General Dental Practice Committee of the British Dental Association, said the miners' dental problems probably stem from the first 17 days of their incarceration, during which they survived on sips of water and small amounts of tuna fish.\"If they couldn't brush their teeth properly for that length of time then they would have got a build up of plaque and bacteria,\" said Milne.\"And if they weren't eating fruit and vegetables, then they won't have been getting vitamin C. They would probably have had an acute infection of the gums, which is very painful.\"Minor dental problems can easily be treated, but the men's most enduring problems may be emotional.\"There should be concern about their psychological adjustment over time, particularly after the joy of the reunion period, which will last for a few days to a few weeks,\" said John Fairbank, a professor of psychiatry at Duke University medical centre.During the 10-week confinement, 19-year-old Jimmy S\u00e1nchez suffered repeated panic attacks and hallucinations.At times S\u00e1nchez was so disoriented that he saw visions of his mother who he thought had come to visit him in the mine, bringing him food and comfort.The youngest member of the 33 is expected to have extensive post-trauma counselling, and will be among the most closely monitored of the rescued men.By contrast the miner who survived in the best condition is Edison Pe\u00f1a, an exercise enthusiast who chopped down his mining boots to turn them into makeshift running shoes, bruising his feet yet still running up to six miles a day through the darkened tunnels.Pe\u00f1a's exercise regime was so extensive that medical authorities sought to slow him down by lowering his calorie intake \u2013 an unsuccessful effort to reign in the hyperactive man.One of the most visible effects of the 70-day subterranean saga has been the men's pale skin caused by prolonged time spent in the dark.Since emerging from the mine, most of them have worn sunglasses at all times. Geoff Roberson, a qualified optometrist and professional adviser to the Association of Optometrists, said the light outside the mine could be \"a thousand times brighter\" than what the men had experienced over the past two months.\"Ultraviolet light is a hazard as far as the eyes are concerned,\" he said. \"If they are very adapted to a dark environment then are going out into a place where UV light levels are quite high, then with very dilated pupils they could suffer longer term damage as a result of excessive ultraviolet light exposure.\"The good news for the miners is that Roberson would be \"very surprised\" if they suffered longer term damage as a result of their ordeal, and the men could expose their eyes to sunlight over the next few days.Exposure of a rather different kind has come sooner for Oakley, the manufacturer and donator of the sunglasses. Yesterday a US analytics company estimated the product placement could be worth $41m to the firm, given the global coverage of the miners' rescue.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Chilean miners rescue", "Americas"], "title": "Chile miners given clean bill of health"},{"date": "2010-10-21T19:23:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the Guardian on Monday, Peter Preston provocatively wondered \"whether a triumphant President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era of Chile would be in Britain\u2026 basking in praise for his mine rescue\u2026 if the Pinochet years hadn't happened.\" Preston didn't play down the brutality of the dictator's rule from 1973 to 1990 \u2013 this was the Guardian not the Daily Telegraph, after all \u2013 but he did suggest that Pinochet's \"malignity\" had acted as the main catalyst for the creation of the more benign, politically moderate, technologically sophisticated Chile, which the world's media are currently admiring.I'm not so sure. Ever since it gained independence from Spain in the early 19th century, Chile has, in fact, been periodically acclaimed abroad for its industriousness, democracy and stability. This praise has sometimes been a bit broad-brush, neglecting to mention the country's 1891 civil war or its intermittent periods of authoritarian rule \u2013 even before Pinochet seized power from Salvador Allende. But this characterisation of Chile, with the country sometimes called \"the England of the Pacific\", has always had a degree of truth to it.State-of-the-art mining enterprises \u2013 many of the original ones set up by English immigrants \u2013 have been making parts of Chile rich for two centuries. Mild Chilean statesmen are not a purely post-Pinochet phenomenon, either. Forty-five years ago, a predecessor of Pi\u00f1era's as president, the Christian Democrat Eduardo Frei, who was overseeing a cautious programme of nationalisation and land redistribution in Chile called the \"Revolution in Liberty\", made an official visit to London and was hailed in the British press as \"A Key Figure In Latin America\". For a few years in the mid 1960s, western governments alarmed by Fidel Castro's revolutionary regime in Cuba promoted Frei's reforms as an alternative model for the region. Today, with the South American left again wielding considerable power, the sudden western enthusiasm for the centre-right Pi\u00f1era is following a similar pattern.In Chile in 1970, famously, the Frei government was succeeded by the much more radical and controversial Allende administration. But even that had its middle-of-the-road and technocratic aspects. Allende was solidly bourgeois by background, a freemason and a former senior doctor, and often a political compromiser \u2013 too often, said his critics further to the left \u2013 rather than a dogmatic Castro-style leader. And the Allende government, despite its mounting troubles, oversaw projects as complex and daring as the recent mine rescue, such as the installation of an experimental but functioning \"socialist internet\", with the help of the British cybernetics pioneer Stafford Beer (an episode I described in the Guardian in 2003).Chile did not need to undergo the horrors of the Pinochet era that followed to get to where it is today. The Chile that foreign commentators are presently so impressed by is the one that has long been there.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "How Chile mines its past | Andy Beckett"},{"date": "2010-11-10T03:29:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A dynamite explosion has killed two workers at an illegal mine near the site of Chile's famous rescue, underlining continued safety problems in the industry and prompting the mine owner to reportedly flee the country.Monday's accident killed Homero Aguirre, 40, and Daniel Lazcano, 26, on their first day at the mine in the Atacama desert, near another mine from which 33 men were rescued last month.Old detonators apparently reacted to the heat and humidity and exploded prematurely, killing the pair and causing a third man to lose an eye from a flying rock.Hours later the Mexican owner flew to Argentina, according to the newsagency Efe, citing sources close to the investigation.The incident in an area of the desert known as Los Reyes \u2013 The Kings \u2013 was a melancholy sequel to the euphoria which greeted the escape of \"los 33\" and highlighted the lax enforcement of safety regulations of the gold and copper mines which dot the Atacama.The National Geology and Mining Service said the mine was new, illegal and unregistered. \"We did not know it existed,\" an agency official, Mariano Garrido, told reporters.President Sebastian Pi\u00f1era vowed to improve mining safety after the drama of saving men trapped underground for 69 days. He said the mine would shut for ever and gave pieces of rock from the site \u2013 considered to have divine properties by some of the rescued men's families \u2013 to the Queen and other European dignitaries.The 33 men have accepted an Israeli invitation for a week-long, all expenses paid visit to the Holy Land for Christmas, Israel's foreign ministry said yesterday.As they tour the world, however, other miners continue to take risks in the Atacama desert.With copper prices at near record highs illicit operators stand to make lucrative profits by continuing to operate in the area. Some offer bonus salaries to compensate miners for the lack of safety measures.Low inventories and booming demand from China have pushed prices up to $8,882 (\u00a35,561) a tonne, just shy of the $8,940 record set in 2008. A strike at Chile's Collahuasi mine, one of the world's biggest, has also nudged up prices this week.", "tags": ["Chile", "Mining", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile mine explosion kills two men"},{"date": "2010-10-14T09:39:27Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The long ordeal of the 33 trapped Chilean miners is finally at an end \u2013 and the buzz about book deals and film rights to the men's dramatic story has already begun.The miners themselves are reported to have made a pact to collaborate on their own book, but in the UK the first book was signed up on Monday, before the rescue had even begun. Freelance journalist Jonathan Franklin, who has covered the dramatic story for the Guardian from day one, is to pen an account of the saga, provisionally titled 33 Men, for publisher Transworld.Franklin, who is an American but has lived in the Chile's capital Santiago for 15 years, spoke about the book on his mobile phone from Chile, after 48 sleepless hours covering the emotional scenes as the miners emerged.\"This is one of the great rescue stories of all time,\" he said, admitting he himself had wept as the first miners were released on Tuesday night. \"It's the reason we all want to be reporters: a remarkable story of the world coming together for a good reason. It taps into human altruism, the desire to work together, perseverance, faith that good things happen, never giving up.\" The early chapters of the book, he said, were already written.As a journalist, Franklin had had \"a backstage pass to the whole thing. I was allowed to tape record the psychologist talking to the [trapped] men, I spent last night in the hospital talking to the [newly freed] miners.\" He intends his book to reveal the characters of the miners themselves (\"You could probably do a book on every one of them\") and reflect their black humour: one of the men played dead, for a joke, during the first 17 days spent in the collapsed mine without food, while another attempted phone sex with the nurse who was attending to him 700m above.Transworld publisher Bill Scott-Kerr, who bought 33 Men at last week's Frankfurt Book Fair, said: \"As far as I'm aware, Franklin is the only print journalist in the inner circle at the mine, party to a lot of the strategy and to the stories of the relatives at the top, the wives and girlfriends.\" He added: \"What I think is really interesting, apart from the drama of the story itself, is the miners' lives in this isolated outpost in Chile, which is a bit like the Wild West. People seem to live by their own rules, and it's a very rugged existence - tough people living in a tough place.\"The publication date for the book is still to be confirmed. \"It'll be sooner rather than later, but I don't want Franklin to compromise the depth and breadth of the story by making it a rush job,\" Scott-Kerr said.Literary agent Annabel Merullo at Peters, Fraser and Dunlop, who is handling the book, said it had also sold to France and Germany, with film interest from the US.\"It's happened so quickly,\" she said. \"When the story broke, we talked about it at the agency and said, 'Is there a book in it?' We decided there only was if we could get someone really good to write it. Jonathan's coverage was so much better than everyone else's. He has incredible access at the mines and he's covered the story from day one.\"", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Chile miners' story signed up by publishers"},{"date": "2010-10-15T20:27:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The 33 rescued Chilean miners have undergone extensive medical checks since being hauled to the surface, but doctors believe that most of them are in surprisingly good health after their two-month ordeal.At least one of the men is believed to have suffered a perforated eardrum in the catastrophic rockfall which sealed the San Jos\u00e9 mine, and may require surgery. Another is being treated for pneumonia, but the most common complaint among the men is toothache.One man, Osm\u00e1n Araya, was in so much pain from an infected tooth that, for the last few nights in the mine, he was told to sleep sitting up and take painkillers. For Araya, surgery is almost certainly necessary, according to a nurse who had access to his medical files.John Milne, chair of the General Dental Practice Committee of the British Dental Association, said the miners' dental problems probably stem from the first 17 days of their incarceration, during which they survived on sips of water and small amounts of tuna fish.\"If they couldn't brush their teeth properly for that length of time then they would have got a build up of plaque and bacteria,\" said Milne.\"And if they weren't eating fruit and vegetables, then they won't have been getting vitamin C. They would probably have had an acute infection of the gums, which is very painful.\"Minor dental problems can easily be treated, but the men's most enduring problems may be emotional.\"There should be concern about their psychological adjustment over time, particularly after the joy of the reunion period, which will last for a few days to a few weeks,\" said John Fairbank, a professor of psychiatry at Duke University medical centre.During the 10-week confinement, 19-year-old Jimmy S\u00e1nchez suffered repeated panic attacks and hallucinations.At times S\u00e1nchez was so disoriented that he saw visions of his mother who he thought had come to visit him in the mine, bringing him food and comfort.The youngest member of the 33 is expected to have extensive post-trauma counselling, and will be among the most closely monitored of the rescued men.By contrast the miner who survived in the best condition is Edison Pe\u00f1a, an exercise enthusiast who chopped down his mining boots to turn them into makeshift running shoes, bruising his feet yet still running up to six miles a day through the darkened tunnels.Pe\u00f1a's exercise regime was so extensive that medical authorities sought to slow him down by lowering his calorie intake \u2013 an unsuccessful effort to reign in the hyperactive man.One of the most visible effects of the 70-day subterranean saga has been the men's pale skin caused by prolonged time spent in the dark.Since emerging from the mine, most of them have worn sunglasses at all times. Geoff Roberson, a qualified optometrist and professional adviser to the Association of Optometrists, said the light outside the mine could be \"a thousand times brighter\" than what the men had experienced over the past two months.\"Ultraviolet light is a hazard as far as the eyes are concerned,\" he said. \"If they are very adapted to a dark environment then are going out into a place where UV light levels are quite high, then with very dilated pupils they could suffer longer term damage as a result of excessive ultraviolet light exposure.\"The good news for the miners is that Roberson would be \"very surprised\" if they suffered longer term damage as a result of their ordeal, and the men could expose their eyes to sunlight over the next few days.Exposure of a rather different kind has come sooner for Oakley, the manufacturer and donator of the sunglasses. Yesterday a US analytics company estimated the product placement could be worth $41m to the firm, given the global coverage of the miners' rescue.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Chilean miners rescue", "Americas"], "title": "Chile miners given clean bill of health"},{"date": "2010-10-04T12:49:43Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The 33 Chilean miners trapped in a collapsed mine for the past two months could be out within 10 days. In a dramatic acceleration of the rescue plans, a massive drill is now within 48 hours of reaching their refuge nearly 700 metres underground.Once the tunnel has been completed, a metal lining will be placed inside the tube to smooth the journey of a rescue capsule dubbed the Phoenix, which will haul the miners to the surface one by one. Given the unique nature of the rescue, every stage of the operation has been fraught with uncertainty and innovation. Engineers now estimate it will take two to six days to install the metal tubing.Once that is complete, a commando from the Chilean navy will be lowered into the mine to evaluate the miners' health and divide them into three groups: the able, the weak, the most able. The men will be evacuated in that order. Each man will be slowly winched from their underground prison in a harrowing ride that is expected to take five to 15 minutes. Sedatives will be given to the men if necessary to calm them for the journey.On Monday, construction workers scrambled to complete a helipad for the next stage of the rescue operation. Over the weekend, a caravan of trucks brought the first of the metal containers that will be used to house the miners during their first hours of freedom. Two family members will be allowed inside each container, which are designed to shelter the miners from sunlight and allow doctors to administer glucose and monitor health indicators. Once stabilised, the men will be transported by helicopter to a military base then housed in a public hospital in the city of Copiapo.There they will be kept under observation for two days, but given their families' anxiety to see them again, many are expected to head home sooner.Late yesterday, the trapped miners began to tightly roll up their belongings and ship any memorabilia to the surface inside hollow tubes known as \"pigeons\", which are then hauled up by rope from the depths of the mine .\"It's moving time,\" joked Alberto Iturra, the lead psychologist for the rescue operation as he surveyed a box of hastily wrapped posters, flags and even rocks that the men had shipped back to the rescuers.With the rescue date moving closer, the men are receiving workout classes, regular contact with their families and even training to deal with the media rush.\"We are providing media training classes,\" explained Alejandro Pino, a lead official with the Associaci\u00f3n Chilena de Seguridad, who said the men are being coached in how to prepare for interviews. With a massive worldwide audience expected to follow the rescue, Chilean officials are seeking to teach the men to both capitalise on the experience and to be prepared for an invasion of privacy.Thanks to a constant delivery of fresh air, water and food, the men are understood to be remarkably healthy. They are expected to receive a brief health evaluation once they are taken from the rescue capsule and then allowed to meet their families.\"This is now a logistical operation, not a health operation,\" said Jean Romagnoli, the personal trainer to the miners. As he downloaded music for one of the trapped miners' MP3 players, Romagnoli joked that he was now \"doctor, DJ and concierge\" to the trapped men.With the rescue now imminent, hundreds of family members have flocked to the mine in celebration and excited anticipation. The impromptu town now includes a daily school for children, hundreds of tents, squads of patrolling police and an air of excitement as the daily advances made by a series of drills on the hillside bring the rescue date closer.", "tags": ["Chile", "Environment", "Business", "World news", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile miners' rescue is imminent, say experts"},{"date": "2010-10-21T19:23:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In the Guardian on Monday, Peter Preston provocatively wondered \"whether a triumphant President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era of Chile would be in Britain\u2026 basking in praise for his mine rescue\u2026 if the Pinochet years hadn't happened.\" Preston didn't play down the brutality of the dictator's rule from 1973 to 1990 \u2013 this was the Guardian not the Daily Telegraph, after all \u2013 but he did suggest that Pinochet's \"malignity\" had acted as the main catalyst for the creation of the more benign, politically moderate, technologically sophisticated Chile, which the world's media are currently admiring.I'm not so sure. Ever since it gained independence from Spain in the early 19th century, Chile has, in fact, been periodically acclaimed abroad for its industriousness, democracy and stability. This praise has sometimes been a bit broad-brush, neglecting to mention the country's 1891 civil war or its intermittent periods of authoritarian rule \u2013 even before Pinochet seized power from Salvador Allende. But this characterisation of Chile, with the country sometimes called \"the England of the Pacific\", has always had a degree of truth to it.State-of-the-art mining enterprises \u2013 many of the original ones set up by English immigrants \u2013 have been making parts of Chile rich for two centuries. Mild Chilean statesmen are not a purely post-Pinochet phenomenon, either. Forty-five years ago, a predecessor of Pi\u00f1era's as president, the Christian Democrat Eduardo Frei, who was overseeing a cautious programme of nationalisation and land redistribution in Chile called the \"Revolution in Liberty\", made an official visit to London and was hailed in the British press as \"A Key Figure In Latin America\". For a few years in the mid 1960s, western governments alarmed by Fidel Castro's revolutionary regime in Cuba promoted Frei's reforms as an alternative model for the region. Today, with the South American left again wielding considerable power, the sudden western enthusiasm for the centre-right Pi\u00f1era is following a similar pattern.In Chile in 1970, famously, the Frei government was succeeded by the much more radical and controversial Allende administration. But even that had its middle-of-the-road and technocratic aspects. Allende was solidly bourgeois by background, a freemason and a former senior doctor, and often a political compromiser \u2013 too often, said his critics further to the left \u2013 rather than a dogmatic Castro-style leader. And the Allende government, despite its mounting troubles, oversaw projects as complex and daring as the recent mine rescue, such as the installation of an experimental but functioning \"socialist internet\", with the help of the British cybernetics pioneer Stafford Beer (an episode I described in the Guardian in 2003).Chile did not need to undergo the horrors of the Pinochet era that followed to get to where it is today. The Chile that foreign commentators are presently so impressed by is the one that has long been there.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "How Chile mines its past | Andy Beckett"},{"date": "2010-11-10T03:29:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A dynamite explosion has killed two workers at an illegal mine near the site of Chile's famous rescue, underlining continued safety problems in the industry and prompting the mine owner to reportedly flee the country.Monday's accident killed Homero Aguirre, 40, and Daniel Lazcano, 26, on their first day at the mine in the Atacama desert, near another mine from which 33 men were rescued last month.Old detonators apparently reacted to the heat and humidity and exploded prematurely, killing the pair and causing a third man to lose an eye from a flying rock.Hours later the Mexican owner flew to Argentina, according to the newsagency Efe, citing sources close to the investigation.The incident in an area of the desert known as Los Reyes \u2013 The Kings \u2013 was a melancholy sequel to the euphoria which greeted the escape of \"los 33\" and highlighted the lax enforcement of safety regulations of the gold and copper mines which dot the Atacama.The National Geology and Mining Service said the mine was new, illegal and unregistered. \"We did not know it existed,\" an agency official, Mariano Garrido, told reporters.President Sebastian Pi\u00f1era vowed to improve mining safety after the drama of saving men trapped underground for 69 days. He said the mine would shut for ever and gave pieces of rock from the site \u2013 considered to have divine properties by some of the rescued men's families \u2013 to the Queen and other European dignitaries.The 33 men have accepted an Israeli invitation for a week-long, all expenses paid visit to the Holy Land for Christmas, Israel's foreign ministry said yesterday.As they tour the world, however, other miners continue to take risks in the Atacama desert.With copper prices at near record highs illicit operators stand to make lucrative profits by continuing to operate in the area. Some offer bonus salaries to compensate miners for the lack of safety measures.Low inventories and booming demand from China have pushed prices up to $8,882 (\u00a35,561) a tonne, just shy of the $8,940 record set in 2008. A strike at Chile's Collahuasi mine, one of the world's biggest, has also nudged up prices this week.", "tags": ["Chile", "Mining", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile mine explosion kills two men"},{"date": "2010-10-14T09:39:27Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The long ordeal of the 33 trapped Chilean miners is finally at an end \u2013 and the buzz about book deals and film rights to the men's dramatic story has already begun.The miners themselves are reported to have made a pact to collaborate on their own book, but in the UK the first book was signed up on Monday, before the rescue had even begun. Freelance journalist Jonathan Franklin, who has covered the dramatic story for the Guardian from day one, is to pen an account of the saga, provisionally titled 33 Men, for publisher Transworld.Franklin, who is an American but has lived in the Chile's capital Santiago for 15 years, spoke about the book on his mobile phone from Chile, after 48 sleepless hours covering the emotional scenes as the miners emerged.\"This is one of the great rescue stories of all time,\" he said, admitting he himself had wept as the first miners were released on Tuesday night. \"It's the reason we all want to be reporters: a remarkable story of the world coming together for a good reason. It taps into human altruism, the desire to work together, perseverance, faith that good things happen, never giving up.\" The early chapters of the book, he said, were already written.As a journalist, Franklin had had \"a backstage pass to the whole thing. I was allowed to tape record the psychologist talking to the [trapped] men, I spent last night in the hospital talking to the [newly freed] miners.\" He intends his book to reveal the characters of the miners themselves (\"You could probably do a book on every one of them\") and reflect their black humour: one of the men played dead, for a joke, during the first 17 days spent in the collapsed mine without food, while another attempted phone sex with the nurse who was attending to him 700m above.Transworld publisher Bill Scott-Kerr, who bought 33 Men at last week's Frankfurt Book Fair, said: \"As far as I'm aware, Franklin is the only print journalist in the inner circle at the mine, party to a lot of the strategy and to the stories of the relatives at the top, the wives and girlfriends.\" He added: \"What I think is really interesting, apart from the drama of the story itself, is the miners' lives in this isolated outpost in Chile, which is a bit like the Wild West. People seem to live by their own rules, and it's a very rugged existence - tough people living in a tough place.\"The publication date for the book is still to be confirmed. \"It'll be sooner rather than later, but I don't want Franklin to compromise the depth and breadth of the story by making it a rush job,\" Scott-Kerr said.Literary agent Annabel Merullo at Peters, Fraser and Dunlop, who is handling the book, said it had also sold to France and Germany, with film interest from the US.\"It's happened so quickly,\" she said. \"When the story broke, we talked about it at the agency and said, 'Is there a book in it?' We decided there only was if we could get someone really good to write it. Jonathan's coverage was so much better than everyone else's. He has incredible access at the mines and he's covered the story from day one.\"", "tags": ["Publishing", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "Chile miners' story signed up by publishers"},{"date": "2010-10-15T20:27:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The 33 rescued Chilean miners have undergone extensive medical checks since being hauled to the surface, but doctors believe that most of them are in surprisingly good health after their two-month ordeal.At least one of the men is believed to have suffered a perforated eardrum in the catastrophic rockfall which sealed the San Jos\u00e9 mine, and may require surgery. Another is being treated for pneumonia, but the most common complaint among the men is toothache.One man, Osm\u00e1n Araya, was in so much pain from an infected tooth that, for the last few nights in the mine, he was told to sleep sitting up and take painkillers. For Araya, surgery is almost certainly necessary, according to a nurse who had access to his medical files.John Milne, chair of the General Dental Practice Committee of the British Dental Association, said the miners' dental problems probably stem from the first 17 days of their incarceration, during which they survived on sips of water and small amounts of tuna fish.\"If they couldn't brush their teeth properly for that length of time then they would have got a build up of plaque and bacteria,\" said Milne.\"And if they weren't eating fruit and vegetables, then they won't have been getting vitamin C. They would probably have had an acute infection of the gums, which is very painful.\"Minor dental problems can easily be treated, but the men's most enduring problems may be emotional.\"There should be concern about their psychological adjustment over time, particularly after the joy of the reunion period, which will last for a few days to a few weeks,\" said John Fairbank, a professor of psychiatry at Duke University medical centre.During the 10-week confinement, 19-year-old Jimmy S\u00e1nchez suffered repeated panic attacks and hallucinations.At times S\u00e1nchez was so disoriented that he saw visions of his mother who he thought had come to visit him in the mine, bringing him food and comfort.The youngest member of the 33 is expected to have extensive post-trauma counselling, and will be among the most closely monitored of the rescued men.By contrast the miner who survived in the best condition is Edison Pe\u00f1a, an exercise enthusiast who chopped down his mining boots to turn them into makeshift running shoes, bruising his feet yet still running up to six miles a day through the darkened tunnels.Pe\u00f1a's exercise regime was so extensive that medical authorities sought to slow him down by lowering his calorie intake \u2013 an unsuccessful effort to reign in the hyperactive man.One of the most visible effects of the 70-day subterranean saga has been the men's pale skin caused by prolonged time spent in the dark.Since emerging from the mine, most of them have worn sunglasses at all times. Geoff Roberson, a qualified optometrist and professional adviser to the Association of Optometrists, said the light outside the mine could be \"a thousand times brighter\" than what the men had experienced over the past two months.\"Ultraviolet light is a hazard as far as the eyes are concerned,\" he said. \"If they are very adapted to a dark environment then are going out into a place where UV light levels are quite high, then with very dilated pupils they could suffer longer term damage as a result of excessive ultraviolet light exposure.\"The good news for the miners is that Roberson would be \"very surprised\" if they suffered longer term damage as a result of their ordeal, and the men could expose their eyes to sunlight over the next few days.Exposure of a rather different kind has come sooner for Oakley, the manufacturer and donator of the sunglasses. Yesterday a US analytics company estimated the product placement could be worth $41m to the firm, given the global coverage of the miners' rescue.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Chilean miners rescue", "Americas"], "title": "Chile miners given clean bill of health"},{"date": "2010-10-04T12:49:43Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The 33 Chilean miners trapped in a collapsed mine for the past two months could be out within 10 days. In a dramatic acceleration of the rescue plans, a massive drill is now within 48 hours of reaching their refuge nearly 700 metres underground.Once the tunnel has been completed, a metal lining will be placed inside the tube to smooth the journey of a rescue capsule dubbed the Phoenix, which will haul the miners to the surface one by one. Given the unique nature of the rescue, every stage of the operation has been fraught with uncertainty and innovation. Engineers now estimate it will take two to six days to install the metal tubing.Once that is complete, a commando from the Chilean navy will be lowered into the mine to evaluate the miners' health and divide them into three groups: the able, the weak, the most able. The men will be evacuated in that order. Each man will be slowly winched from their underground prison in a harrowing ride that is expected to take five to 15 minutes. Sedatives will be given to the men if necessary to calm them for the journey.On Monday, construction workers scrambled to complete a helipad for the next stage of the rescue operation. Over the weekend, a caravan of trucks brought the first of the metal containers that will be used to house the miners during their first hours of freedom. Two family members will be allowed inside each container, which are designed to shelter the miners from sunlight and allow doctors to administer glucose and monitor health indicators. Once stabilised, the men will be transported by helicopter to a military base then housed in a public hospital in the city of Copiapo.There they will be kept under observation for two days, but given their families' anxiety to see them again, many are expected to head home sooner.Late yesterday, the trapped miners began to tightly roll up their belongings and ship any memorabilia to the surface inside hollow tubes known as \"pigeons\", which are then hauled up by rope from the depths of the mine .\"It's moving time,\" joked Alberto Iturra, the lead psychologist for the rescue operation as he surveyed a box of hastily wrapped posters, flags and even rocks that the men had shipped back to the rescuers.With the rescue date moving closer, the men are receiving workout classes, regular contact with their families and even training to deal with the media rush.\"We are providing media training classes,\" explained Alejandro Pino, a lead official with the Associaci\u00f3n Chilena de Seguridad, who said the men are being coached in how to prepare for interviews. With a massive worldwide audience expected to follow the rescue, Chilean officials are seeking to teach the men to both capitalise on the experience and to be prepared for an invasion of privacy.Thanks to a constant delivery of fresh air, water and food, the men are understood to be remarkably healthy. They are expected to receive a brief health evaluation once they are taken from the rescue capsule and then allowed to meet their families.\"This is now a logistical operation, not a health operation,\" said Jean Romagnoli, the personal trainer to the miners. As he downloaded music for one of the trapped miners' MP3 players, Romagnoli joked that he was now \"doctor, DJ and concierge\" to the trapped men.With the rescue now imminent, hundreds of family members have flocked to the mine in celebration and excited anticipation. The impromptu town now includes a daily school for children, hundreds of tents, squads of patrolling police and an air of excitement as the daily advances made by a series of drills on the hillside bring the rescue date closer.", "tags": ["Chile", "Environment", "Business", "World news", "Chilean miners rescue"], "title": "Chile miners' rescue is imminent, say experts"},{"date": "2010-12-23T14:36:23Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Two people were seriously hurt yesterday in postal bomb attacks on diplomatic missions in Rome.Italy's interior minister, Roberto Maroni, linked the blasts to a similar spate of bombings last month in Athens.The two victims were both working in embassy postrooms when packages blew up in their hands. Doctors who attended the two non-diplomatic employees said their injuries suggested that the explosive devices had been packed with metal.The first blast took place at the Swiss embassy. A couple of hours later, there was another at the Chilean mission.Last night an Italian anarchist group, the FAI or Informal Anarchist Federation, claimed responsibility for the blasts.One of the victims risked losing a hand, and the other an eye. Doctors said that neither was in danger of his life.Last night, the Swiss police said bomb disposal experts were examining a suspect package at the European Union's office in Berne. Some parts of the building had been evacuated, a spokesman said.In Rome, a packet reportedly similar to those that exploded was being examined at the Estonian embassy. There were also alerts at the Ukrainian and Slovenian embassies, but in both cases suspect packages were found to be harmless.Police in Rome said they had alerted all the city's embassies for them to take extra care with their post. The foreign minister, Franco Frattini, said that a message urging special attention had been dispatched to Italy's diplomatic missions overseas.The first victim was a 53-year-old Swiss national. Professor Nicolo Scuderi, who led a team at the Policlinico hospital operating on him, told the news agency AGI that the victim's worst injuries were to a hand which had \"practically exploded with the blast.\" Scuderi said the injured man also suffered wounds on the rest of his body from \"fragments of metal evidently put in the package\".The employee at the Chilean embassy, named in Santiago as Cesar Mella, lost two fingers and had injuries to his throat, face and an eye. The head of surgery at the Policlinico, Massimo Coletti, said a bolt had been removed from his throat.The Chilean ambassador, Oscar Godoy, said the packet bomb was addressed to the cultural attache. But, he added: \"We don't even know if the packet arrived by post or with a courier.\"Chilean and Swiss embassies were also targeted in postal bomb attacks last month on embassies in Athens and governments outside Greece. A Greek police official told Reuters news agency the authorities had stepped up checks of parcels at airports following the attacks in Italy. But he said that, contrary to an earlier report, they had not so far received a request for help from the Italian police.", "tags": ["Italy", "World news", "Switzerland", "Chile", "Ukraine", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Bombs explode at Switzerland and Chile embassies in Italy"},{"date": "2011-02-28T20:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In Chile, we understand how the people of Christchurch are feeling. Sunday was the first anniversary of the 8.8 magnitude earthquake that struck our country. We know about falling down and starting again every 25 years or so. There have been four devastating earthquakes over the last 100 years.On Sunday, the Chilean media published the numbers to remember that day last year: the energy of the earthquake was equivalent to 100,000 Hiroshima bombs; 524 people died, 25 disappeared and 800,000 were affected by it. The damage costs reached $30bn: 1,500 km of roads, 4,500 schools, two airports, 53 ports, 56 hospitals were damaged and 220,000 houses were destroyed.Just a couple of weeks after the quake, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, the first rightwing Chilean president since 1958, assumed his duties. The ceremony was marked by two strong tremors and a tsunami alert. Like that first day, his first year has been marked by the earthquake's effects and what we call \"the Reconstruction\". For this first anniversary, the government released a document with their evaluation of this process, highlighting its achievements \u2013\u00a0among others, 100% of students attending school 45 days after the earthquake, and all roads, airports and ports working \u2013 though not all of them are completely repaired.But the big problem is the one which affects people more directly: housing. On the document released by the government, it is claimed that 80,000 emergency houses have been constructed; 75,000 of them on the affected families' own plots of land. There are another 4,291 families that lost their houses in the earthquake, but don't own any land. They are the ones who have been having the worst time during this year. They are living in 106 emergency camps, in extremely bad conditions. The government has not given them access to public services because, they say, it doesn't want temporary camps becoming long-term villages. So these families, including some middle-class families used to live renting or in their own houses, have been living this whole year without access to drinking water and sharing chemical toilets with their neighbours, among other privations. The centre for investigative journalism, Ciper, has revealed further problems: nearly 2,000 families living in these emergency camps are not going to receive any kind of help, because the government judges they don't fulfill the official requirements. Among them are people who have not been able to prove they were actually affected by the earthquake, and people who live on their own \u2013 though why the government decided that one-person households don't apply for this benefit is a mystery.These people represent the 40% of the camps' population, yet the government says that 80% of this population has already been granted housing benefits. The numbers don't match. This is not the first time the government has been caught trying to make their work look better than it really is. Last Thursday, it released a set of before-and-after pictures showing how different places were damaged by the earthquake and how they look like after their reconstruction. It didn't take long for people to realise that two of those \"after\" pictures were taken before the earthquake.The government did a mea culpa and said it was a mistake. But people are angry, and there have been protests. If they are obliged to spend, as seems likely, at least another year living in these camps, things may start getting ugly. The government should take more seriously the responsibility of helping the reconstruction of these Chileans' lives. To have their own houses again would be just the minimum compensation for people who lost everything.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "US news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Chile and earthquake reconstruction | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-02-28T20:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In Chile, we understand how the people of Christchurch are feeling. Sunday was the first anniversary of the 8.8 magnitude earthquake that struck our country. We know about falling down and starting again every 25 years or so. There have been four devastating earthquakes over the last 100 years.On Sunday, the Chilean media published the numbers to remember that day last year: the energy of the earthquake was equivalent to 100,000 Hiroshima bombs; 524 people died, 25 disappeared and 800,000 were affected by it. The damage costs reached $30bn: 1,500 km of roads, 4,500 schools, two airports, 53 ports, 56 hospitals were damaged and 220,000 houses were destroyed.Just a couple of weeks after the quake, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, the first rightwing Chilean president since 1958, assumed his duties. The ceremony was marked by two strong tremors and a tsunami alert. Like that first day, his first year has been marked by the earthquake's effects and what we call \"the Reconstruction\". For this first anniversary, the government released a document with their evaluation of this process, highlighting its achievements \u2013\u00a0among others, 100% of students attending school 45 days after the earthquake, and all roads, airports and ports working \u2013 though not all of them are completely repaired.But the big problem is the one which affects people more directly: housing. On the document released by the government, it is claimed that 80,000 emergency houses have been constructed; 75,000 of them on the affected families' own plots of land. There are another 4,291 families that lost their houses in the earthquake, but don't own any land. They are the ones who have been having the worst time during this year. They are living in 106 emergency camps, in extremely bad conditions. The government has not given them access to public services because, they say, it doesn't want temporary camps becoming long-term villages. So these families, including some middle-class families used to live renting or in their own houses, have been living this whole year without access to drinking water and sharing chemical toilets with their neighbours, among other privations. The centre for investigative journalism, Ciper, has revealed further problems: nearly 2,000 families living in these emergency camps are not going to receive any kind of help, because the government judges they don't fulfill the official requirements. Among them are people who have not been able to prove they were actually affected by the earthquake, and people who live on their own \u2013 though why the government decided that one-person households don't apply for this benefit is a mystery.These people represent the 40% of the camps' population, yet the government says that 80% of this population has already been granted housing benefits. The numbers don't match. This is not the first time the government has been caught trying to make their work look better than it really is. Last Thursday, it released a set of before-and-after pictures showing how different places were damaged by the earthquake and how they look like after their reconstruction. It didn't take long for people to realise that two of those \"after\" pictures were taken before the earthquake.The government did a mea culpa and said it was a mistake. But people are angry, and there have been protests. If they are obliged to spend, as seems likely, at least another year living in these camps, things may start getting ugly. The government should take more seriously the responsibility of helping the reconstruction of these Chileans' lives. To have their own houses again would be just the minimum compensation for people who lost everything.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "US news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Chile and earthquake reconstruction | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-02-23T13:25:32Z", "country": "chile", "content": "While English society discusses the possibility of allowing women to carry out early medical abortions at home, in Chile the fate of reproductive justice is looking grim. There, therapeutic abortion \u2013 which is induced to preserve the health of the mother \u2013 is not even an option. Chile allowed therapeutic abortion from 1931 until 1989 \u2013 the last year of the military dictatorship that ruled the country for 17 years, leaving 3,000 dead and disappeared and 35,000 tortured. The devout Catholic generals banned abortions just before they left to protect, they said, the right to life of the unborn.A group of Chilean MPs has recently introduced a bill aiming to re-establish this right. To make a strong statement they introduced the case of Claudia Pizarro, a 28-year-old woman who had cancer and was also carrying an anencephalic baby. She was asking for a therapeutic abortion. The health minister accused her of being a setup, and the political discussion went nowhere. On 4 January Pizarro delivered a baby girl who died an hour and 15 minutes after being born.Despite being a secular state, the Catholic church is a powerful institution in Chile. Rightwing politicians are fervent believers and several of them are members of the ultra-conservative sects Opus Dei and Legionaries of Christ. They are the kind of Catholics who believe you have to accomplish the mission God gave you (in their cases: being rich, powerful and dictating everybody's lives).In 2006, the Chilean government led by socialist Michelle Bachelet, the first woman elected president, allowed the free distribution of the morning-after pill in public health centres for women over 14. Pro-life groups, the Catholic church and rightwing politicians protested, and 36 MPs requested that the constitutional tribunal protect the \"right to life\" established by the constitution. Keep in mind we're talking about the morning-after pill here, which solely prevents pregnancy and is not an abortifacient.The same people have been trying to prevent sex education and campaigns against HIV/Aids for years; abstinence is the only possible way for them. We had national campaigns against HIV/Aids that didn't talk about condoms \u2013 at all. The last one, released last December under Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's rightwing government, is especially unclear and confused with \"conceptual\" adverts, which don't give straightforward information and completely ignore the highest risk group: male homosexuals. Fifteen years ago those groups managed to cancel Jocas, the only serious sex-education policy tried in Chile, because it was revealed that some teachers were showing teenagers how to put on a condom using a banana. Granted, it might not be very elegant \u2013 but by making a scandal and calling it \"explicit and immoral\", they managed to strip Chile bare of any sex-education policy. Today, ignorance rules.In 2008, the constitutional tribunal banned the free distribution of the morning-after pill in public hospitals or health centres, but not its sale. So rich women and girls had access to the pill, but poor uneducated women did not. In 2010 the congress finally ruled by law that the morning-after pill had to be freely distributed by the public health system. But there is a catch: young girls who need the morning-after pill have to ask for it accompanied by one of their parents. Talk about a barrier: if you are young and having sex, the last people you want to know about it are your parents. Every year 30,000 teenagers become mothers; that is 13% of all births in Chile.This is our situation: women who know that their babies are going to die have to carry them for nine months and deliver them just to bury them; poor teenagers are having babies because they don't have access to sexual education or to emergency contraception, and the possibility of abortion being legal is just a dream \u2013 but meanwhile, every year, about 40,000 women risk their lives having illegal abortions in the worst conditions. What will it take for Chile to not take women's lives for granted?", "tags": ["Chile", "Abortion", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Sex education", "Women", "Health", "Religion", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile: where abortion isn't an option | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-02-28T20:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In Chile, we understand how the people of Christchurch are feeling. Sunday was the first anniversary of the 8.8 magnitude earthquake that struck our country. We know about falling down and starting again every 25 years or so. There have been four devastating earthquakes over the last 100 years.On Sunday, the Chilean media published the numbers to remember that day last year: the energy of the earthquake was equivalent to 100,000 Hiroshima bombs; 524 people died, 25 disappeared and 800,000 were affected by it. The damage costs reached $30bn: 1,500 km of roads, 4,500 schools, two airports, 53 ports, 56 hospitals were damaged and 220,000 houses were destroyed.Just a couple of weeks after the quake, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, the first rightwing Chilean president since 1958, assumed his duties. The ceremony was marked by two strong tremors and a tsunami alert. Like that first day, his first year has been marked by the earthquake's effects and what we call \"the Reconstruction\". For this first anniversary, the government released a document with their evaluation of this process, highlighting its achievements \u2013\u00a0among others, 100% of students attending school 45 days after the earthquake, and all roads, airports and ports working \u2013 though not all of them are completely repaired.But the big problem is the one which affects people more directly: housing. On the document released by the government, it is claimed that 80,000 emergency houses have been constructed; 75,000 of them on the affected families' own plots of land. There are another 4,291 families that lost their houses in the earthquake, but don't own any land. They are the ones who have been having the worst time during this year. They are living in 106 emergency camps, in extremely bad conditions. The government has not given them access to public services because, they say, it doesn't want temporary camps becoming long-term villages. So these families, including some middle-class families used to live renting or in their own houses, have been living this whole year without access to drinking water and sharing chemical toilets with their neighbours, among other privations. The centre for investigative journalism, Ciper, has revealed further problems: nearly 2,000 families living in these emergency camps are not going to receive any kind of help, because the government judges they don't fulfill the official requirements. Among them are people who have not been able to prove they were actually affected by the earthquake, and people who live on their own \u2013 though why the government decided that one-person households don't apply for this benefit is a mystery.These people represent the 40% of the camps' population, yet the government says that 80% of this population has already been granted housing benefits. The numbers don't match. This is not the first time the government has been caught trying to make their work look better than it really is. Last Thursday, it released a set of before-and-after pictures showing how different places were damaged by the earthquake and how they look like after their reconstruction. It didn't take long for people to realise that two of those \"after\" pictures were taken before the earthquake.The government did a mea culpa and said it was a mistake. But people are angry, and there have been protests. If they are obliged to spend, as seems likely, at least another year living in these camps, things may start getting ugly. The government should take more seriously the responsibility of helping the reconstruction of these Chileans' lives. To have their own houses again would be just the minimum compensation for people who lost everything.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "US news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Chile and earthquake reconstruction | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-02-23T13:25:32Z", "country": "chile", "content": "While English society discusses the possibility of allowing women to carry out early medical abortions at home, in Chile the fate of reproductive justice is looking grim. There, therapeutic abortion \u2013 which is induced to preserve the health of the mother \u2013 is not even an option. Chile allowed therapeutic abortion from 1931 until 1989 \u2013 the last year of the military dictatorship that ruled the country for 17 years, leaving 3,000 dead and disappeared and 35,000 tortured. The devout Catholic generals banned abortions just before they left to protect, they said, the right to life of the unborn.A group of Chilean MPs has recently introduced a bill aiming to re-establish this right. To make a strong statement they introduced the case of Claudia Pizarro, a 28-year-old woman who had cancer and was also carrying an anencephalic baby. She was asking for a therapeutic abortion. The health minister accused her of being a setup, and the political discussion went nowhere. On 4 January Pizarro delivered a baby girl who died an hour and 15 minutes after being born.Despite being a secular state, the Catholic church is a powerful institution in Chile. Rightwing politicians are fervent believers and several of them are members of the ultra-conservative sects Opus Dei and Legionaries of Christ. They are the kind of Catholics who believe you have to accomplish the mission God gave you (in their cases: being rich, powerful and dictating everybody's lives).In 2006, the Chilean government led by socialist Michelle Bachelet, the first woman elected president, allowed the free distribution of the morning-after pill in public health centres for women over 14. Pro-life groups, the Catholic church and rightwing politicians protested, and 36 MPs requested that the constitutional tribunal protect the \"right to life\" established by the constitution. Keep in mind we're talking about the morning-after pill here, which solely prevents pregnancy and is not an abortifacient.The same people have been trying to prevent sex education and campaigns against HIV/Aids for years; abstinence is the only possible way for them. We had national campaigns against HIV/Aids that didn't talk about condoms \u2013 at all. The last one, released last December under Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's rightwing government, is especially unclear and confused with \"conceptual\" adverts, which don't give straightforward information and completely ignore the highest risk group: male homosexuals. Fifteen years ago those groups managed to cancel Jocas, the only serious sex-education policy tried in Chile, because it was revealed that some teachers were showing teenagers how to put on a condom using a banana. Granted, it might not be very elegant \u2013 but by making a scandal and calling it \"explicit and immoral\", they managed to strip Chile bare of any sex-education policy. Today, ignorance rules.In 2008, the constitutional tribunal banned the free distribution of the morning-after pill in public hospitals or health centres, but not its sale. So rich women and girls had access to the pill, but poor uneducated women did not. In 2010 the congress finally ruled by law that the morning-after pill had to be freely distributed by the public health system. But there is a catch: young girls who need the morning-after pill have to ask for it accompanied by one of their parents. Talk about a barrier: if you are young and having sex, the last people you want to know about it are your parents. Every year 30,000 teenagers become mothers; that is 13% of all births in Chile.This is our situation: women who know that their babies are going to die have to carry them for nine months and deliver them just to bury them; poor teenagers are having babies because they don't have access to sexual education or to emergency contraception, and the possibility of abortion being legal is just a dream \u2013 but meanwhile, every year, about 40,000 women risk their lives having illegal abortions in the worst conditions. What will it take for Chile to not take women's lives for granted?", "tags": ["Chile", "Abortion", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Sex education", "Women", "Health", "Religion", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile: where abortion isn't an option | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-01-18T18:34:02Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Protesters in southern Chile have blocked roads and turned thousands of tourists into \"hostages\", prompting some to try to escape by trekking to the airport on foot.Tourists are dragging luggage for miles to and from Punta Arenas airport as roadblocks paralyse transport in a dispute with the government over fuel subsidies.Tourists, mostly from Argentina, Europe and North America, staged their own demonstration to complain about dwindling food, money and patience, with some saying they had been \"kidnapped\".Paul Sullivan, 22, a backpacker from Devon, started hiking yesterday from Punta Arenas \u2013 one of the world's most southern cities \u2013 to the airport 15 miles away. He passed five roadblocks where locals offered soup, rice and meat, but made no apology for marooning him and an estimated 2,000 visitors since last Tuesday. \"They were very friendly and gave me some coffee and apples to send me on my way,\" he told the Guardian.The civil engineering graduate hitched rides part of the way from vehicles which shuttled between roadblocks. In the opposite direction trudged people with suitcases \u2013 tourists who had just landed, unaware there was a general strike, and were trying to get to town.Sullivan made it out, as did a French couple, but hotels remained filled with holidaymakers desperate to leave but hesitant to do so on foot in cold, windy conditions. By coincidence this week was the 100th anniversary of Captain Scott's doomed Antarctic trek.Locals reneged on several promises to let tourists leave, hardening suspicion they wanted to keep them as bargaining chips, said Sullivan. \"People weren't happy. Some felt they were hostages but I didn't feel it was that extreme.\" A protest by tourists verbally clashed with local strikers, fuelling tension.The military evacuated a large group from Puerto Natales by air but others in Torres del Paine national park reportedly remained stranded. \"Tourists here are unable to leave unless they walk to the Argentina border, the nearest point being over 35km [22 miles] away, and end up the middle of nowhere in Argentina,\" said one visitor, Lee Schmidtchen, via email.\"Kidnapped was the word most repeated in various languages,\" reported El Mercurio newspaper. The Red Cross has set up a shelter in a school for tourists who have run out of money.Tourism industry chiefs said the Magallanes region had lost more than $4m and damaged its reputation.The dispute flared when President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's government announced a 17% rise in the price of natural gas as part of a plan to tackle Chile's energy deficit and to reduce subsidies paid by the state-owned National Petroleum Company.People in the frigid Magallanes, who use gas to heat homes and power vehicles and factories, complained that they would be unfairly hit. Protests radicalised after an unidentified trucker rammed a barricade and knocked two women into a bonfire, killing them. The interior ministry further alienated protesters by threatening to send soldiers to dismantle roadblocks.Pi\u00f1era, facing his worst crisis since 33 miners were trapped last year, gave the hero of that rescue, the mining minister Laurence Golborne, the energy portfolio to see if he can work his magic again. Golborne flew to Punta Arenas yesterday to try to defuse a crisis that analysts said could prove politically far trickier than extracting men from a collapsed copper and gold mine.", "tags": ["Chile", "Air transport", "Travel", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile tourists 'held hostage' by protesters"},{"date": "2011-02-28T20:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In Chile, we understand how the people of Christchurch are feeling. Sunday was the first anniversary of the 8.8 magnitude earthquake that struck our country. We know about falling down and starting again every 25 years or so. There have been four devastating earthquakes over the last 100 years.On Sunday, the Chilean media published the numbers to remember that day last year: the energy of the earthquake was equivalent to 100,000 Hiroshima bombs; 524 people died, 25 disappeared and 800,000 were affected by it. The damage costs reached $30bn: 1,500 km of roads, 4,500 schools, two airports, 53 ports, 56 hospitals were damaged and 220,000 houses were destroyed.Just a couple of weeks after the quake, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, the first rightwing Chilean president since 1958, assumed his duties. The ceremony was marked by two strong tremors and a tsunami alert. Like that first day, his first year has been marked by the earthquake's effects and what we call \"the Reconstruction\". For this first anniversary, the government released a document with their evaluation of this process, highlighting its achievements \u2013\u00a0among others, 100% of students attending school 45 days after the earthquake, and all roads, airports and ports working \u2013 though not all of them are completely repaired.But the big problem is the one which affects people more directly: housing. On the document released by the government, it is claimed that 80,000 emergency houses have been constructed; 75,000 of them on the affected families' own plots of land. There are another 4,291 families that lost their houses in the earthquake, but don't own any land. They are the ones who have been having the worst time during this year. They are living in 106 emergency camps, in extremely bad conditions. The government has not given them access to public services because, they say, it doesn't want temporary camps becoming long-term villages. So these families, including some middle-class families used to live renting or in their own houses, have been living this whole year without access to drinking water and sharing chemical toilets with their neighbours, among other privations. The centre for investigative journalism, Ciper, has revealed further problems: nearly 2,000 families living in these emergency camps are not going to receive any kind of help, because the government judges they don't fulfill the official requirements. Among them are people who have not been able to prove they were actually affected by the earthquake, and people who live on their own \u2013 though why the government decided that one-person households don't apply for this benefit is a mystery.These people represent the 40% of the camps' population, yet the government says that 80% of this population has already been granted housing benefits. The numbers don't match. This is not the first time the government has been caught trying to make their work look better than it really is. Last Thursday, it released a set of before-and-after pictures showing how different places were damaged by the earthquake and how they look like after their reconstruction. It didn't take long for people to realise that two of those \"after\" pictures were taken before the earthquake.The government did a mea culpa and said it was a mistake. But people are angry, and there have been protests. If they are obliged to spend, as seems likely, at least another year living in these camps, things may start getting ugly. The government should take more seriously the responsibility of helping the reconstruction of these Chileans' lives. To have their own houses again would be just the minimum compensation for people who lost everything.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "US news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Chile and earthquake reconstruction | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-02-23T13:25:32Z", "country": "chile", "content": "While English society discusses the possibility of allowing women to carry out early medical abortions at home, in Chile the fate of reproductive justice is looking grim. There, therapeutic abortion \u2013 which is induced to preserve the health of the mother \u2013 is not even an option. Chile allowed therapeutic abortion from 1931 until 1989 \u2013 the last year of the military dictatorship that ruled the country for 17 years, leaving 3,000 dead and disappeared and 35,000 tortured. The devout Catholic generals banned abortions just before they left to protect, they said, the right to life of the unborn.A group of Chilean MPs has recently introduced a bill aiming to re-establish this right. To make a strong statement they introduced the case of Claudia Pizarro, a 28-year-old woman who had cancer and was also carrying an anencephalic baby. She was asking for a therapeutic abortion. The health minister accused her of being a setup, and the political discussion went nowhere. On 4 January Pizarro delivered a baby girl who died an hour and 15 minutes after being born.Despite being a secular state, the Catholic church is a powerful institution in Chile. Rightwing politicians are fervent believers and several of them are members of the ultra-conservative sects Opus Dei and Legionaries of Christ. They are the kind of Catholics who believe you have to accomplish the mission God gave you (in their cases: being rich, powerful and dictating everybody's lives).In 2006, the Chilean government led by socialist Michelle Bachelet, the first woman elected president, allowed the free distribution of the morning-after pill in public health centres for women over 14. Pro-life groups, the Catholic church and rightwing politicians protested, and 36 MPs requested that the constitutional tribunal protect the \"right to life\" established by the constitution. Keep in mind we're talking about the morning-after pill here, which solely prevents pregnancy and is not an abortifacient.The same people have been trying to prevent sex education and campaigns against HIV/Aids for years; abstinence is the only possible way for them. We had national campaigns against HIV/Aids that didn't talk about condoms \u2013 at all. The last one, released last December under Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's rightwing government, is especially unclear and confused with \"conceptual\" adverts, which don't give straightforward information and completely ignore the highest risk group: male homosexuals. Fifteen years ago those groups managed to cancel Jocas, the only serious sex-education policy tried in Chile, because it was revealed that some teachers were showing teenagers how to put on a condom using a banana. Granted, it might not be very elegant \u2013 but by making a scandal and calling it \"explicit and immoral\", they managed to strip Chile bare of any sex-education policy. Today, ignorance rules.In 2008, the constitutional tribunal banned the free distribution of the morning-after pill in public hospitals or health centres, but not its sale. So rich women and girls had access to the pill, but poor uneducated women did not. In 2010 the congress finally ruled by law that the morning-after pill had to be freely distributed by the public health system. But there is a catch: young girls who need the morning-after pill have to ask for it accompanied by one of their parents. Talk about a barrier: if you are young and having sex, the last people you want to know about it are your parents. Every year 30,000 teenagers become mothers; that is 13% of all births in Chile.This is our situation: women who know that their babies are going to die have to carry them for nine months and deliver them just to bury them; poor teenagers are having babies because they don't have access to sexual education or to emergency contraception, and the possibility of abortion being legal is just a dream \u2013 but meanwhile, every year, about 40,000 women risk their lives having illegal abortions in the worst conditions. What will it take for Chile to not take women's lives for granted?", "tags": ["Chile", "Abortion", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Sex education", "Women", "Health", "Religion", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile: where abortion isn't an option | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-01-18T18:34:02Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Protesters in southern Chile have blocked roads and turned thousands of tourists into \"hostages\", prompting some to try to escape by trekking to the airport on foot.Tourists are dragging luggage for miles to and from Punta Arenas airport as roadblocks paralyse transport in a dispute with the government over fuel subsidies.Tourists, mostly from Argentina, Europe and North America, staged their own demonstration to complain about dwindling food, money and patience, with some saying they had been \"kidnapped\".Paul Sullivan, 22, a backpacker from Devon, started hiking yesterday from Punta Arenas \u2013 one of the world's most southern cities \u2013 to the airport 15 miles away. He passed five roadblocks where locals offered soup, rice and meat, but made no apology for marooning him and an estimated 2,000 visitors since last Tuesday. \"They were very friendly and gave me some coffee and apples to send me on my way,\" he told the Guardian.The civil engineering graduate hitched rides part of the way from vehicles which shuttled between roadblocks. In the opposite direction trudged people with suitcases \u2013 tourists who had just landed, unaware there was a general strike, and were trying to get to town.Sullivan made it out, as did a French couple, but hotels remained filled with holidaymakers desperate to leave but hesitant to do so on foot in cold, windy conditions. By coincidence this week was the 100th anniversary of Captain Scott's doomed Antarctic trek.Locals reneged on several promises to let tourists leave, hardening suspicion they wanted to keep them as bargaining chips, said Sullivan. \"People weren't happy. Some felt they were hostages but I didn't feel it was that extreme.\" A protest by tourists verbally clashed with local strikers, fuelling tension.The military evacuated a large group from Puerto Natales by air but others in Torres del Paine national park reportedly remained stranded. \"Tourists here are unable to leave unless they walk to the Argentina border, the nearest point being over 35km [22 miles] away, and end up the middle of nowhere in Argentina,\" said one visitor, Lee Schmidtchen, via email.\"Kidnapped was the word most repeated in various languages,\" reported El Mercurio newspaper. The Red Cross has set up a shelter in a school for tourists who have run out of money.Tourism industry chiefs said the Magallanes region had lost more than $4m and damaged its reputation.The dispute flared when President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's government announced a 17% rise in the price of natural gas as part of a plan to tackle Chile's energy deficit and to reduce subsidies paid by the state-owned National Petroleum Company.People in the frigid Magallanes, who use gas to heat homes and power vehicles and factories, complained that they would be unfairly hit. Protests radicalised after an unidentified trucker rammed a barricade and knocked two women into a bonfire, killing them. The interior ministry further alienated protesters by threatening to send soldiers to dismantle roadblocks.Pi\u00f1era, facing his worst crisis since 33 miners were trapped last year, gave the hero of that rescue, the mining minister Laurence Golborne, the energy portfolio to see if he can work his magic again. Golborne flew to Punta Arenas yesterday to try to defuse a crisis that analysts said could prove politically far trickier than extracting men from a collapsed copper and gold mine.", "tags": ["Chile", "Air transport", "Travel", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile tourists 'held hostage' by protesters"},{"date": "2011-03-08T00:05:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Michelle Bachelet, former president of Chile, is used to being first. She was the first female president of the South American country after becoming its first female defence minister. Now aged 59, she is the first head of the newly created UN Women, the United Nations organisation dedicated to gender equality.The former paediatrician and epidemiologist is now promoting\u00a0female empowerment across the globe. On taking up the new role she said: \"We have a historic opportunity to accelerate the achievement of what champions of gender equality have worked towards for years.\"Her early life prepared her for such challenges. As a student, Bachelet survived torture after her father, an army general, opposed the coup that brought Augusto Pinochet to power. As a divorced, agnostic mother of three in a Catholic country, her 2005 election campaign focused on meeting the needs of the country's poor, reforming the pension system and promoting the rights of women and indigenous communities. As one panel member said, she is a sign of hope for women who suffered in Latin America's brutal politics: \"She talks to anyone who lost someone in the dirty war \u2013 and is an example of how you can turn your hatred to something positive.\"Once in office, Bachelet shattered the conservative image of Chilean politics, ensuring half her cabinet were women. She also introduced women-friendly policies such as tripling the number of free creches. Although she encountered criticism over her response to the 2010 tsunami in which more than 500 Chileans died, her handling of the impact of the global financial crisis \u2013 she had insisted on saving money during the country's boom years \u2013 meant she left office as one of the most popular presidents in Chilean history.", "tags": ["Women", "Chile", "Michelle Bachelet", "Americas"], "title": "Michelle Bachelet | Top 100 women"},{"date": "2011-02-28T20:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In Chile, we understand how the people of Christchurch are feeling. Sunday was the first anniversary of the 8.8 magnitude earthquake that struck our country. We know about falling down and starting again every 25 years or so. There have been four devastating earthquakes over the last 100 years.On Sunday, the Chilean media published the numbers to remember that day last year: the energy of the earthquake was equivalent to 100,000 Hiroshima bombs; 524 people died, 25 disappeared and 800,000 were affected by it. The damage costs reached $30bn: 1,500 km of roads, 4,500 schools, two airports, 53 ports, 56 hospitals were damaged and 220,000 houses were destroyed.Just a couple of weeks after the quake, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, the first rightwing Chilean president since 1958, assumed his duties. The ceremony was marked by two strong tremors and a tsunami alert. Like that first day, his first year has been marked by the earthquake's effects and what we call \"the Reconstruction\". For this first anniversary, the government released a document with their evaluation of this process, highlighting its achievements \u2013\u00a0among others, 100% of students attending school 45 days after the earthquake, and all roads, airports and ports working \u2013 though not all of them are completely repaired.But the big problem is the one which affects people more directly: housing. On the document released by the government, it is claimed that 80,000 emergency houses have been constructed; 75,000 of them on the affected families' own plots of land. There are another 4,291 families that lost their houses in the earthquake, but don't own any land. They are the ones who have been having the worst time during this year. They are living in 106 emergency camps, in extremely bad conditions. The government has not given them access to public services because, they say, it doesn't want temporary camps becoming long-term villages. So these families, including some middle-class families used to live renting or in their own houses, have been living this whole year without access to drinking water and sharing chemical toilets with their neighbours, among other privations. The centre for investigative journalism, Ciper, has revealed further problems: nearly 2,000 families living in these emergency camps are not going to receive any kind of help, because the government judges they don't fulfill the official requirements. Among them are people who have not been able to prove they were actually affected by the earthquake, and people who live on their own \u2013 though why the government decided that one-person households don't apply for this benefit is a mystery.These people represent the 40% of the camps' population, yet the government says that 80% of this population has already been granted housing benefits. The numbers don't match. This is not the first time the government has been caught trying to make their work look better than it really is. Last Thursday, it released a set of before-and-after pictures showing how different places were damaged by the earthquake and how they look like after their reconstruction. It didn't take long for people to realise that two of those \"after\" pictures were taken before the earthquake.The government did a mea culpa and said it was a mistake. But people are angry, and there have been protests. If they are obliged to spend, as seems likely, at least another year living in these camps, things may start getting ugly. The government should take more seriously the responsibility of helping the reconstruction of these Chileans' lives. To have their own houses again would be just the minimum compensation for people who lost everything.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "US news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Chile and earthquake reconstruction | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-02-23T13:25:32Z", "country": "chile", "content": "While English society discusses the possibility of allowing women to carry out early medical abortions at home, in Chile the fate of reproductive justice is looking grim. There, therapeutic abortion \u2013 which is induced to preserve the health of the mother \u2013 is not even an option. Chile allowed therapeutic abortion from 1931 until 1989 \u2013 the last year of the military dictatorship that ruled the country for 17 years, leaving 3,000 dead and disappeared and 35,000 tortured. The devout Catholic generals banned abortions just before they left to protect, they said, the right to life of the unborn.A group of Chilean MPs has recently introduced a bill aiming to re-establish this right. To make a strong statement they introduced the case of Claudia Pizarro, a 28-year-old woman who had cancer and was also carrying an anencephalic baby. She was asking for a therapeutic abortion. The health minister accused her of being a setup, and the political discussion went nowhere. On 4 January Pizarro delivered a baby girl who died an hour and 15 minutes after being born.Despite being a secular state, the Catholic church is a powerful institution in Chile. Rightwing politicians are fervent believers and several of them are members of the ultra-conservative sects Opus Dei and Legionaries of Christ. They are the kind of Catholics who believe you have to accomplish the mission God gave you (in their cases: being rich, powerful and dictating everybody's lives).In 2006, the Chilean government led by socialist Michelle Bachelet, the first woman elected president, allowed the free distribution of the morning-after pill in public health centres for women over 14. Pro-life groups, the Catholic church and rightwing politicians protested, and 36 MPs requested that the constitutional tribunal protect the \"right to life\" established by the constitution. Keep in mind we're talking about the morning-after pill here, which solely prevents pregnancy and is not an abortifacient.The same people have been trying to prevent sex education and campaigns against HIV/Aids for years; abstinence is the only possible way for them. We had national campaigns against HIV/Aids that didn't talk about condoms \u2013 at all. The last one, released last December under Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's rightwing government, is especially unclear and confused with \"conceptual\" adverts, which don't give straightforward information and completely ignore the highest risk group: male homosexuals. Fifteen years ago those groups managed to cancel Jocas, the only serious sex-education policy tried in Chile, because it was revealed that some teachers were showing teenagers how to put on a condom using a banana. Granted, it might not be very elegant \u2013 but by making a scandal and calling it \"explicit and immoral\", they managed to strip Chile bare of any sex-education policy. Today, ignorance rules.In 2008, the constitutional tribunal banned the free distribution of the morning-after pill in public hospitals or health centres, but not its sale. So rich women and girls had access to the pill, but poor uneducated women did not. In 2010 the congress finally ruled by law that the morning-after pill had to be freely distributed by the public health system. But there is a catch: young girls who need the morning-after pill have to ask for it accompanied by one of their parents. Talk about a barrier: if you are young and having sex, the last people you want to know about it are your parents. Every year 30,000 teenagers become mothers; that is 13% of all births in Chile.This is our situation: women who know that their babies are going to die have to carry them for nine months and deliver them just to bury them; poor teenagers are having babies because they don't have access to sexual education or to emergency contraception, and the possibility of abortion being legal is just a dream \u2013 but meanwhile, every year, about 40,000 women risk their lives having illegal abortions in the worst conditions. What will it take for Chile to not take women's lives for granted?", "tags": ["Chile", "Abortion", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Sex education", "Women", "Health", "Religion", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile: where abortion isn't an option | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-01-18T18:34:02Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Protesters in southern Chile have blocked roads and turned thousands of tourists into \"hostages\", prompting some to try to escape by trekking to the airport on foot.Tourists are dragging luggage for miles to and from Punta Arenas airport as roadblocks paralyse transport in a dispute with the government over fuel subsidies.Tourists, mostly from Argentina, Europe and North America, staged their own demonstration to complain about dwindling food, money and patience, with some saying they had been \"kidnapped\".Paul Sullivan, 22, a backpacker from Devon, started hiking yesterday from Punta Arenas \u2013 one of the world's most southern cities \u2013 to the airport 15 miles away. He passed five roadblocks where locals offered soup, rice and meat, but made no apology for marooning him and an estimated 2,000 visitors since last Tuesday. \"They were very friendly and gave me some coffee and apples to send me on my way,\" he told the Guardian.The civil engineering graduate hitched rides part of the way from vehicles which shuttled between roadblocks. In the opposite direction trudged people with suitcases \u2013 tourists who had just landed, unaware there was a general strike, and were trying to get to town.Sullivan made it out, as did a French couple, but hotels remained filled with holidaymakers desperate to leave but hesitant to do so on foot in cold, windy conditions. By coincidence this week was the 100th anniversary of Captain Scott's doomed Antarctic trek.Locals reneged on several promises to let tourists leave, hardening suspicion they wanted to keep them as bargaining chips, said Sullivan. \"People weren't happy. Some felt they were hostages but I didn't feel it was that extreme.\" A protest by tourists verbally clashed with local strikers, fuelling tension.The military evacuated a large group from Puerto Natales by air but others in Torres del Paine national park reportedly remained stranded. \"Tourists here are unable to leave unless they walk to the Argentina border, the nearest point being over 35km [22 miles] away, and end up the middle of nowhere in Argentina,\" said one visitor, Lee Schmidtchen, via email.\"Kidnapped was the word most repeated in various languages,\" reported El Mercurio newspaper. The Red Cross has set up a shelter in a school for tourists who have run out of money.Tourism industry chiefs said the Magallanes region had lost more than $4m and damaged its reputation.The dispute flared when President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's government announced a 17% rise in the price of natural gas as part of a plan to tackle Chile's energy deficit and to reduce subsidies paid by the state-owned National Petroleum Company.People in the frigid Magallanes, who use gas to heat homes and power vehicles and factories, complained that they would be unfairly hit. Protests radicalised after an unidentified trucker rammed a barricade and knocked two women into a bonfire, killing them. The interior ministry further alienated protesters by threatening to send soldiers to dismantle roadblocks.Pi\u00f1era, facing his worst crisis since 33 miners were trapped last year, gave the hero of that rescue, the mining minister Laurence Golborne, the energy portfolio to see if he can work his magic again. Golborne flew to Punta Arenas yesterday to try to defuse a crisis that analysts said could prove politically far trickier than extracting men from a collapsed copper and gold mine.", "tags": ["Chile", "Air transport", "Travel", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile tourists 'held hostage' by protesters"},{"date": "2011-03-08T00:05:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Michelle Bachelet, former president of Chile, is used to being first. She was the first female president of the South American country after becoming its first female defence minister. Now aged 59, she is the first head of the newly created UN Women, the United Nations organisation dedicated to gender equality.The former paediatrician and epidemiologist is now promoting\u00a0female empowerment across the globe. On taking up the new role she said: \"We have a historic opportunity to accelerate the achievement of what champions of gender equality have worked towards for years.\"Her early life prepared her for such challenges. As a student, Bachelet survived torture after her father, an army general, opposed the coup that brought Augusto Pinochet to power. As a divorced, agnostic mother of three in a Catholic country, her 2005 election campaign focused on meeting the needs of the country's poor, reforming the pension system and promoting the rights of women and indigenous communities. As one panel member said, she is a sign of hope for women who suffered in Latin America's brutal politics: \"She talks to anyone who lost someone in the dirty war \u2013 and is an example of how you can turn your hatred to something positive.\"Once in office, Bachelet shattered the conservative image of Chilean politics, ensuring half her cabinet were women. She also introduced women-friendly policies such as tripling the number of free creches. Although she encountered criticism over her response to the 2010 tsunami in which more than 500 Chileans died, her handling of the impact of the global financial crisis \u2013 she had insisted on saving money during the country's boom years \u2013 meant she left office as one of the most popular presidents in Chilean history.", "tags": ["Women", "Chile", "Michelle Bachelet", "Americas"], "title": "Michelle Bachelet | Top 100 women"},{"date": "2011-01-07T11:38:06Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We delve into the teaching diaries of those who've taken their careers overseas to find out what it's really like teaching English as a foreign language. This next article is from David Proctor, who went to teach in South America. Back in 2005 I chose to study Spanish and Geography at university, mainly due to my lack of a career plan, and also because spending the third year in a Spanish speaking country was a compulsory part of the degree. So when choosing where to go and what to do in the Hispanic world, I discovered that Leeds University luckily had a fairly flexible year abroad scheme regarding possible options and destinations. Instead of going for the boring and easy option that would be studying in Spain, I followed my adventurous, travelling instincts, and opted for Chile, to teach English with the British Council Language Assistant scheme.South America is an incredibly beautiful and diverse continent, but one that is often blighted by media reports of social divides, corruption, and drugs. Chile however is very different to its neighbours, the recent rescue of the 33 miners showed the country in its best light - organised and efficient. I was in Santiago, a spectacular capital city with hundreds of skyscrapers overshadowed by the mighty snow-capped Andes.For my first time living and working in Latin America, Chile was a great introduction to the continent. Getting used to things such as the different Spanish accent and punctuality, or the lack of it, is difficult at first, but Santiago is a developed, cosmopolitan city with fine bars, restaurants and museums to help you settle, just be careful what time you agree to meet people. Teaching in south America tends to be very different to what we're accustomed to in the UK. With a TEFL course, CELTA or equivalent, jobs are generally available teaching adults in language institutes or universities, although universities can vary enormously. Some fit the British concept, with thousands of students and superb resources, but due to a lack of public finance and student support in higher education, these will often be the most expensive and exclusive variety. Consequently there are lots of more vocational universities offering a wider range of 'cheaper' courses, such as where I taught, at La Universidad Tecnolog\u00eda de Chile, or INACAP as it's more commonly known.Financial constraints also mean most students usually live at home, which has an effect on their life experiences and maturity, making teaching in a university feel more like that of a school, rather than a higher education establishment. I had a few nightmares trying to set a fixed date for exams and assessed work, never would I have thought negotiation to be an essential skill for an English teacher.Obviously a big attraction to living abroad is the opportunity to travel. Depending where you are in Latin America, holidays can be up to three months, as in Chile and Argentina. I made the most of this time by travelling to the wilderness of Patagonia, where I rafted the clear blue water of the Futalef\u00fa river, one of the fiercest in the world, and trekked between the jagged peaks of Torres del Paine, surrounded by lakes and glaciers. Long weekends allowed me to visit Buenos Aires, a crazy city with a very European feel, and witness the incredible passion and hostility of a Boca Juniors and River Plate derby. After my contract ended I trekked to Machu Picchu in Peru and cycled down the world's most dangerous road in Bolivia to complete the adventurous theme of the year. My fascination with south America had begun.Graduating into recession in 2009 was a blessing in disguise. I took the chance to return to the continent with the British Council scheme, this time to Colombia, a country that makes most people immediately ask about drugs, then about kidnappings or guerillas, while in your mother's presence. I'm pleased to say this is nothing like the Colombia I experienced.Working in a university again, but with more confidence this time round, I was responsible for the running of the Conversation Club which gave me complete freedom in deciding what to teach, or talk about, and so kept the job lively and interesting. Colombia also has fewer native speakers than other places, but this means you can be a man in demand with a bit of effort. I ended up teaching in a private school once a week, although school starts at around 7am, which can be a challenging day with a rowdy class of thirty 10-year-olds.Cal\u00ed, Colombia's third city, was my home this time, and it's famed for beautiful women, an all year round semi-tropical climate and the self-proclaimed salsa capital of the world. Life there revolves around salsa, so naturally, I had to learn, socialising with any Cale\u00f1as is near impossible without it. By the end of the year, I'm proud to say I reached an \"advanced beginner\" level, according to my friends.Colombia is a truly beautiful country, and unlike other places in south America, has yet to be exploited by the commercial tourism that is so prevalent in places such as Peru. Its drug cartel reputation precedes it, but the national image is improving. Colombians are all too aware of what the world thinks of them, and on the most part, are only too keen to try and alter that perception with endearing generosity and friendliness that would be inconceivable in Britain.After enjoying my two years abroad immensely, I have now just completed a CELTA, and plan to return independently to Colombia again in January 2011. Living abroad is not for everyone, but if you want an adventure and a different experience, I recommend looking into TEFL and seeing the wealth of opportunities that can arise.You can read more of David Proctor's Latin adventures on his blog.", "tags": ["Graduate", "Education", "All sectors"], "title": "Teaching English in South America"},{"date": "2011-02-28T20:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In Chile, we understand how the people of Christchurch are feeling. Sunday was the first anniversary of the 8.8 magnitude earthquake that struck our country. We know about falling down and starting again every 25 years or so. There have been four devastating earthquakes over the last 100 years.On Sunday, the Chilean media published the numbers to remember that day last year: the energy of the earthquake was equivalent to 100,000 Hiroshima bombs; 524 people died, 25 disappeared and 800,000 were affected by it. The damage costs reached $30bn: 1,500 km of roads, 4,500 schools, two airports, 53 ports, 56 hospitals were damaged and 220,000 houses were destroyed.Just a couple of weeks after the quake, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, the first rightwing Chilean president since 1958, assumed his duties. The ceremony was marked by two strong tremors and a tsunami alert. Like that first day, his first year has been marked by the earthquake's effects and what we call \"the Reconstruction\". For this first anniversary, the government released a document with their evaluation of this process, highlighting its achievements \u2013\u00a0among others, 100% of students attending school 45 days after the earthquake, and all roads, airports and ports working \u2013 though not all of them are completely repaired.But the big problem is the one which affects people more directly: housing. On the document released by the government, it is claimed that 80,000 emergency houses have been constructed; 75,000 of them on the affected families' own plots of land. There are another 4,291 families that lost their houses in the earthquake, but don't own any land. They are the ones who have been having the worst time during this year. They are living in 106 emergency camps, in extremely bad conditions. The government has not given them access to public services because, they say, it doesn't want temporary camps becoming long-term villages. So these families, including some middle-class families used to live renting or in their own houses, have been living this whole year without access to drinking water and sharing chemical toilets with their neighbours, among other privations. The centre for investigative journalism, Ciper, has revealed further problems: nearly 2,000 families living in these emergency camps are not going to receive any kind of help, because the government judges they don't fulfill the official requirements. Among them are people who have not been able to prove they were actually affected by the earthquake, and people who live on their own \u2013 though why the government decided that one-person households don't apply for this benefit is a mystery.These people represent the 40% of the camps' population, yet the government says that 80% of this population has already been granted housing benefits. The numbers don't match. This is not the first time the government has been caught trying to make their work look better than it really is. Last Thursday, it released a set of before-and-after pictures showing how different places were damaged by the earthquake and how they look like after their reconstruction. It didn't take long for people to realise that two of those \"after\" pictures were taken before the earthquake.The government did a mea culpa and said it was a mistake. But people are angry, and there have been protests. If they are obliged to spend, as seems likely, at least another year living in these camps, things may start getting ugly. The government should take more seriously the responsibility of helping the reconstruction of these Chileans' lives. To have their own houses again would be just the minimum compensation for people who lost everything.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "US news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Chile and earthquake reconstruction | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-02-23T13:25:32Z", "country": "chile", "content": "While English society discusses the possibility of allowing women to carry out early medical abortions at home, in Chile the fate of reproductive justice is looking grim. There, therapeutic abortion \u2013 which is induced to preserve the health of the mother \u2013 is not even an option. Chile allowed therapeutic abortion from 1931 until 1989 \u2013 the last year of the military dictatorship that ruled the country for 17 years, leaving 3,000 dead and disappeared and 35,000 tortured. The devout Catholic generals banned abortions just before they left to protect, they said, the right to life of the unborn.A group of Chilean MPs has recently introduced a bill aiming to re-establish this right. To make a strong statement they introduced the case of Claudia Pizarro, a 28-year-old woman who had cancer and was also carrying an anencephalic baby. She was asking for a therapeutic abortion. The health minister accused her of being a setup, and the political discussion went nowhere. On 4 January Pizarro delivered a baby girl who died an hour and 15 minutes after being born.Despite being a secular state, the Catholic church is a powerful institution in Chile. Rightwing politicians are fervent believers and several of them are members of the ultra-conservative sects Opus Dei and Legionaries of Christ. They are the kind of Catholics who believe you have to accomplish the mission God gave you (in their cases: being rich, powerful and dictating everybody's lives).In 2006, the Chilean government led by socialist Michelle Bachelet, the first woman elected president, allowed the free distribution of the morning-after pill in public health centres for women over 14. Pro-life groups, the Catholic church and rightwing politicians protested, and 36 MPs requested that the constitutional tribunal protect the \"right to life\" established by the constitution. Keep in mind we're talking about the morning-after pill here, which solely prevents pregnancy and is not an abortifacient.The same people have been trying to prevent sex education and campaigns against HIV/Aids for years; abstinence is the only possible way for them. We had national campaigns against HIV/Aids that didn't talk about condoms \u2013 at all. The last one, released last December under Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's rightwing government, is especially unclear and confused with \"conceptual\" adverts, which don't give straightforward information and completely ignore the highest risk group: male homosexuals. Fifteen years ago those groups managed to cancel Jocas, the only serious sex-education policy tried in Chile, because it was revealed that some teachers were showing teenagers how to put on a condom using a banana. Granted, it might not be very elegant \u2013 but by making a scandal and calling it \"explicit and immoral\", they managed to strip Chile bare of any sex-education policy. Today, ignorance rules.In 2008, the constitutional tribunal banned the free distribution of the morning-after pill in public hospitals or health centres, but not its sale. So rich women and girls had access to the pill, but poor uneducated women did not. In 2010 the congress finally ruled by law that the morning-after pill had to be freely distributed by the public health system. But there is a catch: young girls who need the morning-after pill have to ask for it accompanied by one of their parents. Talk about a barrier: if you are young and having sex, the last people you want to know about it are your parents. Every year 30,000 teenagers become mothers; that is 13% of all births in Chile.This is our situation: women who know that their babies are going to die have to carry them for nine months and deliver them just to bury them; poor teenagers are having babies because they don't have access to sexual education or to emergency contraception, and the possibility of abortion being legal is just a dream \u2013 but meanwhile, every year, about 40,000 women risk their lives having illegal abortions in the worst conditions. What will it take for Chile to not take women's lives for granted?", "tags": ["Chile", "Abortion", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Sex education", "Women", "Health", "Religion", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile: where abortion isn't an option | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-01-18T18:34:02Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Protesters in southern Chile have blocked roads and turned thousands of tourists into \"hostages\", prompting some to try to escape by trekking to the airport on foot.Tourists are dragging luggage for miles to and from Punta Arenas airport as roadblocks paralyse transport in a dispute with the government over fuel subsidies.Tourists, mostly from Argentina, Europe and North America, staged their own demonstration to complain about dwindling food, money and patience, with some saying they had been \"kidnapped\".Paul Sullivan, 22, a backpacker from Devon, started hiking yesterday from Punta Arenas \u2013 one of the world's most southern cities \u2013 to the airport 15 miles away. He passed five roadblocks where locals offered soup, rice and meat, but made no apology for marooning him and an estimated 2,000 visitors since last Tuesday. \"They were very friendly and gave me some coffee and apples to send me on my way,\" he told the Guardian.The civil engineering graduate hitched rides part of the way from vehicles which shuttled between roadblocks. In the opposite direction trudged people with suitcases \u2013 tourists who had just landed, unaware there was a general strike, and were trying to get to town.Sullivan made it out, as did a French couple, but hotels remained filled with holidaymakers desperate to leave but hesitant to do so on foot in cold, windy conditions. By coincidence this week was the 100th anniversary of Captain Scott's doomed Antarctic trek.Locals reneged on several promises to let tourists leave, hardening suspicion they wanted to keep them as bargaining chips, said Sullivan. \"People weren't happy. Some felt they were hostages but I didn't feel it was that extreme.\" A protest by tourists verbally clashed with local strikers, fuelling tension.The military evacuated a large group from Puerto Natales by air but others in Torres del Paine national park reportedly remained stranded. \"Tourists here are unable to leave unless they walk to the Argentina border, the nearest point being over 35km [22 miles] away, and end up the middle of nowhere in Argentina,\" said one visitor, Lee Schmidtchen, via email.\"Kidnapped was the word most repeated in various languages,\" reported El Mercurio newspaper. The Red Cross has set up a shelter in a school for tourists who have run out of money.Tourism industry chiefs said the Magallanes region had lost more than $4m and damaged its reputation.The dispute flared when President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's government announced a 17% rise in the price of natural gas as part of a plan to tackle Chile's energy deficit and to reduce subsidies paid by the state-owned National Petroleum Company.People in the frigid Magallanes, who use gas to heat homes and power vehicles and factories, complained that they would be unfairly hit. Protests radicalised after an unidentified trucker rammed a barricade and knocked two women into a bonfire, killing them. The interior ministry further alienated protesters by threatening to send soldiers to dismantle roadblocks.Pi\u00f1era, facing his worst crisis since 33 miners were trapped last year, gave the hero of that rescue, the mining minister Laurence Golborne, the energy portfolio to see if he can work his magic again. Golborne flew to Punta Arenas yesterday to try to defuse a crisis that analysts said could prove politically far trickier than extracting men from a collapsed copper and gold mine.", "tags": ["Chile", "Air transport", "Travel", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile tourists 'held hostage' by protesters"},{"date": "2011-03-08T00:05:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Michelle Bachelet, former president of Chile, is used to being first. She was the first female president of the South American country after becoming its first female defence minister. Now aged 59, she is the first head of the newly created UN Women, the United Nations organisation dedicated to gender equality.The former paediatrician and epidemiologist is now promoting\u00a0female empowerment across the globe. On taking up the new role she said: \"We have a historic opportunity to accelerate the achievement of what champions of gender equality have worked towards for years.\"Her early life prepared her for such challenges. As a student, Bachelet survived torture after her father, an army general, opposed the coup that brought Augusto Pinochet to power. As a divorced, agnostic mother of three in a Catholic country, her 2005 election campaign focused on meeting the needs of the country's poor, reforming the pension system and promoting the rights of women and indigenous communities. As one panel member said, she is a sign of hope for women who suffered in Latin America's brutal politics: \"She talks to anyone who lost someone in the dirty war \u2013 and is an example of how you can turn your hatred to something positive.\"Once in office, Bachelet shattered the conservative image of Chilean politics, ensuring half her cabinet were women. She also introduced women-friendly policies such as tripling the number of free creches. Although she encountered criticism over her response to the 2010 tsunami in which more than 500 Chileans died, her handling of the impact of the global financial crisis \u2013 she had insisted on saving money during the country's boom years \u2013 meant she left office as one of the most popular presidents in Chilean history.", "tags": ["Women", "Chile", "Michelle Bachelet", "Americas"], "title": "Michelle Bachelet | Top 100 women"},{"date": "2011-01-07T11:38:06Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We delve into the teaching diaries of those who've taken their careers overseas to find out what it's really like teaching English as a foreign language. This next article is from David Proctor, who went to teach in South America. Back in 2005 I chose to study Spanish and Geography at university, mainly due to my lack of a career plan, and also because spending the third year in a Spanish speaking country was a compulsory part of the degree. So when choosing where to go and what to do in the Hispanic world, I discovered that Leeds University luckily had a fairly flexible year abroad scheme regarding possible options and destinations. Instead of going for the boring and easy option that would be studying in Spain, I followed my adventurous, travelling instincts, and opted for Chile, to teach English with the British Council Language Assistant scheme.South America is an incredibly beautiful and diverse continent, but one that is often blighted by media reports of social divides, corruption, and drugs. Chile however is very different to its neighbours, the recent rescue of the 33 miners showed the country in its best light - organised and efficient. I was in Santiago, a spectacular capital city with hundreds of skyscrapers overshadowed by the mighty snow-capped Andes.For my first time living and working in Latin America, Chile was a great introduction to the continent. Getting used to things such as the different Spanish accent and punctuality, or the lack of it, is difficult at first, but Santiago is a developed, cosmopolitan city with fine bars, restaurants and museums to help you settle, just be careful what time you agree to meet people. Teaching in south America tends to be very different to what we're accustomed to in the UK. With a TEFL course, CELTA or equivalent, jobs are generally available teaching adults in language institutes or universities, although universities can vary enormously. Some fit the British concept, with thousands of students and superb resources, but due to a lack of public finance and student support in higher education, these will often be the most expensive and exclusive variety. Consequently there are lots of more vocational universities offering a wider range of 'cheaper' courses, such as where I taught, at La Universidad Tecnolog\u00eda de Chile, or INACAP as it's more commonly known.Financial constraints also mean most students usually live at home, which has an effect on their life experiences and maturity, making teaching in a university feel more like that of a school, rather than a higher education establishment. I had a few nightmares trying to set a fixed date for exams and assessed work, never would I have thought negotiation to be an essential skill for an English teacher.Obviously a big attraction to living abroad is the opportunity to travel. Depending where you are in Latin America, holidays can be up to three months, as in Chile and Argentina. I made the most of this time by travelling to the wilderness of Patagonia, where I rafted the clear blue water of the Futalef\u00fa river, one of the fiercest in the world, and trekked between the jagged peaks of Torres del Paine, surrounded by lakes and glaciers. Long weekends allowed me to visit Buenos Aires, a crazy city with a very European feel, and witness the incredible passion and hostility of a Boca Juniors and River Plate derby. After my contract ended I trekked to Machu Picchu in Peru and cycled down the world's most dangerous road in Bolivia to complete the adventurous theme of the year. My fascination with south America had begun.Graduating into recession in 2009 was a blessing in disguise. I took the chance to return to the continent with the British Council scheme, this time to Colombia, a country that makes most people immediately ask about drugs, then about kidnappings or guerillas, while in your mother's presence. I'm pleased to say this is nothing like the Colombia I experienced.Working in a university again, but with more confidence this time round, I was responsible for the running of the Conversation Club which gave me complete freedom in deciding what to teach, or talk about, and so kept the job lively and interesting. Colombia also has fewer native speakers than other places, but this means you can be a man in demand with a bit of effort. I ended up teaching in a private school once a week, although school starts at around 7am, which can be a challenging day with a rowdy class of thirty 10-year-olds.Cal\u00ed, Colombia's third city, was my home this time, and it's famed for beautiful women, an all year round semi-tropical climate and the self-proclaimed salsa capital of the world. Life there revolves around salsa, so naturally, I had to learn, socialising with any Cale\u00f1as is near impossible without it. By the end of the year, I'm proud to say I reached an \"advanced beginner\" level, according to my friends.Colombia is a truly beautiful country, and unlike other places in south America, has yet to be exploited by the commercial tourism that is so prevalent in places such as Peru. Its drug cartel reputation precedes it, but the national image is improving. Colombians are all too aware of what the world thinks of them, and on the most part, are only too keen to try and alter that perception with endearing generosity and friendliness that would be inconceivable in Britain.After enjoying my two years abroad immensely, I have now just completed a CELTA, and plan to return independently to Colombia again in January 2011. Living abroad is not for everyone, but if you want an adventure and a different experience, I recommend looking into TEFL and seeing the wealth of opportunities that can arise.You can read more of David Proctor's Latin adventures on his blog.", "tags": ["Graduate", "Education", "All sectors"], "title": "Teaching English in South America"},{"date": "2011-01-24T20:00:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The United States proposed giving Palestinian refugees land in South America as a radical solution to a problem that has haunted Middle East peace talks for decades.Condoleezza Rice, the Bush administration's secretary of state, wanted to settle displaced Palestinians in Argentina and Chile as an alternative to letting them return to former homes in Israel and the occupied territories. Rice made the proposal in a June 2008 meeting with US, Israeli and Palestinian negotiators in Berlin, according to minutes of the encounter seen by the Guardian.During a discussion about international funding to compensate refugees \u2013 an estimated 5 million Palestinians are scattered around the Middle East \u2013 the US diplomat made a startling suggestion.\"Maybe we will be able to find countries that can contribute in kind. Chile, Argentina, etc (ie, give land).\"The minutes, which are not verbatim, have the initials CR before the quote. Rice was the only participant with those initials.The proposal seems based on the fact that Chile has a large Palestinian community dating back a century and, like Argentina, has large tracts of sparsely populated land.It flew in the face of Palestinian insistence that the refugees have the right to return to their ancestral land \u2013 a demand Israel has resisted since its foundation in 1948. Carving out a new Palestinian homeland 8,000 miles away in the Andes could theoretically reduce pressure on Israel to return land.The proposal, not previously disclosed, is a twist on suggestions made in the last century to settle Jews in Madagascar and what is present-day Kenya. It appears to have been influenced by the transfer of 117 Palestinian refugees to Chile between March and April 2008, a few months before the Berlin meeting.The group had lived in Iraq for many years but was stranded in a grim camp on the Syrian border during post-Saddam Hussein chaos. Chile hosted them in response to a UN appeal, said Carolina Podesta de Footner, a spokeswoman for the South American office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.\"The UNHCR made an appeal to governments to take these people. Chile was one of the first countries to accept.\"As well as having Latin America's largest Palestinian population \u2013 estimated at more than 200,000 \u2013 Chile had previously accepted refugees from Afghanistan, Colombia and the former Yugoslavia. Podesta said other Palestinians from Iraq were settled in Brazil, Iceland and Romania.At the time Rice made her proposal the Iraqi Palestinians appeared to be settling well in La Calera, a city north of Santiago. They were greeted with smiles, songs and promises of help with housing, jobs and language training.But unlike previous Palestinian arrivals \u2013 mostly Christians with education and money who chose to move \u2013 the refugees were blue-collar conservative Muslims and had struggled to integrate.", "tags": ["Refugees", "Palestinian territories", "US foreign policy", "Chile", "Argentina", "The Palestine papers", "Middle East and North Africa", "US news", "Israel", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Condoleezza Rice: send Palestinian refugees to South America"},{"date": "2011-02-28T20:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In Chile, we understand how the people of Christchurch are feeling. Sunday was the first anniversary of the 8.8 magnitude earthquake that struck our country. We know about falling down and starting again every 25 years or so. There have been four devastating earthquakes over the last 100 years.On Sunday, the Chilean media published the numbers to remember that day last year: the energy of the earthquake was equivalent to 100,000 Hiroshima bombs; 524 people died, 25 disappeared and 800,000 were affected by it. The damage costs reached $30bn: 1,500 km of roads, 4,500 schools, two airports, 53 ports, 56 hospitals were damaged and 220,000 houses were destroyed.Just a couple of weeks after the quake, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, the first rightwing Chilean president since 1958, assumed his duties. The ceremony was marked by two strong tremors and a tsunami alert. Like that first day, his first year has been marked by the earthquake's effects and what we call \"the Reconstruction\". For this first anniversary, the government released a document with their evaluation of this process, highlighting its achievements \u2013\u00a0among others, 100% of students attending school 45 days after the earthquake, and all roads, airports and ports working \u2013 though not all of them are completely repaired.But the big problem is the one which affects people more directly: housing. On the document released by the government, it is claimed that 80,000 emergency houses have been constructed; 75,000 of them on the affected families' own plots of land. There are another 4,291 families that lost their houses in the earthquake, but don't own any land. They are the ones who have been having the worst time during this year. They are living in 106 emergency camps, in extremely bad conditions. The government has not given them access to public services because, they say, it doesn't want temporary camps becoming long-term villages. So these families, including some middle-class families used to live renting or in their own houses, have been living this whole year without access to drinking water and sharing chemical toilets with their neighbours, among other privations. The centre for investigative journalism, Ciper, has revealed further problems: nearly 2,000 families living in these emergency camps are not going to receive any kind of help, because the government judges they don't fulfill the official requirements. Among them are people who have not been able to prove they were actually affected by the earthquake, and people who live on their own \u2013 though why the government decided that one-person households don't apply for this benefit is a mystery.These people represent the 40% of the camps' population, yet the government says that 80% of this population has already been granted housing benefits. The numbers don't match. This is not the first time the government has been caught trying to make their work look better than it really is. Last Thursday, it released a set of before-and-after pictures showing how different places were damaged by the earthquake and how they look like after their reconstruction. It didn't take long for people to realise that two of those \"after\" pictures were taken before the earthquake.The government did a mea culpa and said it was a mistake. But people are angry, and there have been protests. If they are obliged to spend, as seems likely, at least another year living in these camps, things may start getting ugly. The government should take more seriously the responsibility of helping the reconstruction of these Chileans' lives. To have their own houses again would be just the minimum compensation for people who lost everything.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "US news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Chile and earthquake reconstruction | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-02-23T13:25:32Z", "country": "chile", "content": "While English society discusses the possibility of allowing women to carry out early medical abortions at home, in Chile the fate of reproductive justice is looking grim. There, therapeutic abortion \u2013 which is induced to preserve the health of the mother \u2013 is not even an option. Chile allowed therapeutic abortion from 1931 until 1989 \u2013 the last year of the military dictatorship that ruled the country for 17 years, leaving 3,000 dead and disappeared and 35,000 tortured. The devout Catholic generals banned abortions just before they left to protect, they said, the right to life of the unborn.A group of Chilean MPs has recently introduced a bill aiming to re-establish this right. To make a strong statement they introduced the case of Claudia Pizarro, a 28-year-old woman who had cancer and was also carrying an anencephalic baby. She was asking for a therapeutic abortion. The health minister accused her of being a setup, and the political discussion went nowhere. On 4 January Pizarro delivered a baby girl who died an hour and 15 minutes after being born.Despite being a secular state, the Catholic church is a powerful institution in Chile. Rightwing politicians are fervent believers and several of them are members of the ultra-conservative sects Opus Dei and Legionaries of Christ. They are the kind of Catholics who believe you have to accomplish the mission God gave you (in their cases: being rich, powerful and dictating everybody's lives).In 2006, the Chilean government led by socialist Michelle Bachelet, the first woman elected president, allowed the free distribution of the morning-after pill in public health centres for women over 14. Pro-life groups, the Catholic church and rightwing politicians protested, and 36 MPs requested that the constitutional tribunal protect the \"right to life\" established by the constitution. Keep in mind we're talking about the morning-after pill here, which solely prevents pregnancy and is not an abortifacient.The same people have been trying to prevent sex education and campaigns against HIV/Aids for years; abstinence is the only possible way for them. We had national campaigns against HIV/Aids that didn't talk about condoms \u2013 at all. The last one, released last December under Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's rightwing government, is especially unclear and confused with \"conceptual\" adverts, which don't give straightforward information and completely ignore the highest risk group: male homosexuals. Fifteen years ago those groups managed to cancel Jocas, the only serious sex-education policy tried in Chile, because it was revealed that some teachers were showing teenagers how to put on a condom using a banana. Granted, it might not be very elegant \u2013 but by making a scandal and calling it \"explicit and immoral\", they managed to strip Chile bare of any sex-education policy. Today, ignorance rules.In 2008, the constitutional tribunal banned the free distribution of the morning-after pill in public hospitals or health centres, but not its sale. So rich women and girls had access to the pill, but poor uneducated women did not. In 2010 the congress finally ruled by law that the morning-after pill had to be freely distributed by the public health system. But there is a catch: young girls who need the morning-after pill have to ask for it accompanied by one of their parents. Talk about a barrier: if you are young and having sex, the last people you want to know about it are your parents. Every year 30,000 teenagers become mothers; that is 13% of all births in Chile.This is our situation: women who know that their babies are going to die have to carry them for nine months and deliver them just to bury them; poor teenagers are having babies because they don't have access to sexual education or to emergency contraception, and the possibility of abortion being legal is just a dream \u2013 but meanwhile, every year, about 40,000 women risk their lives having illegal abortions in the worst conditions. What will it take for Chile to not take women's lives for granted?", "tags": ["Chile", "Abortion", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Sex education", "Women", "Health", "Religion", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile: where abortion isn't an option | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-01-18T18:34:02Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Protesters in southern Chile have blocked roads and turned thousands of tourists into \"hostages\", prompting some to try to escape by trekking to the airport on foot.Tourists are dragging luggage for miles to and from Punta Arenas airport as roadblocks paralyse transport in a dispute with the government over fuel subsidies.Tourists, mostly from Argentina, Europe and North America, staged their own demonstration to complain about dwindling food, money and patience, with some saying they had been \"kidnapped\".Paul Sullivan, 22, a backpacker from Devon, started hiking yesterday from Punta Arenas \u2013 one of the world's most southern cities \u2013 to the airport 15 miles away. He passed five roadblocks where locals offered soup, rice and meat, but made no apology for marooning him and an estimated 2,000 visitors since last Tuesday. \"They were very friendly and gave me some coffee and apples to send me on my way,\" he told the Guardian.The civil engineering graduate hitched rides part of the way from vehicles which shuttled between roadblocks. In the opposite direction trudged people with suitcases \u2013 tourists who had just landed, unaware there was a general strike, and were trying to get to town.Sullivan made it out, as did a French couple, but hotels remained filled with holidaymakers desperate to leave but hesitant to do so on foot in cold, windy conditions. By coincidence this week was the 100th anniversary of Captain Scott's doomed Antarctic trek.Locals reneged on several promises to let tourists leave, hardening suspicion they wanted to keep them as bargaining chips, said Sullivan. \"People weren't happy. Some felt they were hostages but I didn't feel it was that extreme.\" A protest by tourists verbally clashed with local strikers, fuelling tension.The military evacuated a large group from Puerto Natales by air but others in Torres del Paine national park reportedly remained stranded. \"Tourists here are unable to leave unless they walk to the Argentina border, the nearest point being over 35km [22 miles] away, and end up the middle of nowhere in Argentina,\" said one visitor, Lee Schmidtchen, via email.\"Kidnapped was the word most repeated in various languages,\" reported El Mercurio newspaper. The Red Cross has set up a shelter in a school for tourists who have run out of money.Tourism industry chiefs said the Magallanes region had lost more than $4m and damaged its reputation.The dispute flared when President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's government announced a 17% rise in the price of natural gas as part of a plan to tackle Chile's energy deficit and to reduce subsidies paid by the state-owned National Petroleum Company.People in the frigid Magallanes, who use gas to heat homes and power vehicles and factories, complained that they would be unfairly hit. Protests radicalised after an unidentified trucker rammed a barricade and knocked two women into a bonfire, killing them. The interior ministry further alienated protesters by threatening to send soldiers to dismantle roadblocks.Pi\u00f1era, facing his worst crisis since 33 miners were trapped last year, gave the hero of that rescue, the mining minister Laurence Golborne, the energy portfolio to see if he can work his magic again. Golborne flew to Punta Arenas yesterday to try to defuse a crisis that analysts said could prove politically far trickier than extracting men from a collapsed copper and gold mine.", "tags": ["Chile", "Air transport", "Travel", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile tourists 'held hostage' by protesters"},{"date": "2011-03-08T00:05:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Michelle Bachelet, former president of Chile, is used to being first. She was the first female president of the South American country after becoming its first female defence minister. Now aged 59, she is the first head of the newly created UN Women, the United Nations organisation dedicated to gender equality.The former paediatrician and epidemiologist is now promoting\u00a0female empowerment across the globe. On taking up the new role she said: \"We have a historic opportunity to accelerate the achievement of what champions of gender equality have worked towards for years.\"Her early life prepared her for such challenges. As a student, Bachelet survived torture after her father, an army general, opposed the coup that brought Augusto Pinochet to power. As a divorced, agnostic mother of three in a Catholic country, her 2005 election campaign focused on meeting the needs of the country's poor, reforming the pension system and promoting the rights of women and indigenous communities. As one panel member said, she is a sign of hope for women who suffered in Latin America's brutal politics: \"She talks to anyone who lost someone in the dirty war \u2013 and is an example of how you can turn your hatred to something positive.\"Once in office, Bachelet shattered the conservative image of Chilean politics, ensuring half her cabinet were women. She also introduced women-friendly policies such as tripling the number of free creches. Although she encountered criticism over her response to the 2010 tsunami in which more than 500 Chileans died, her handling of the impact of the global financial crisis \u2013 she had insisted on saving money during the country's boom years \u2013 meant she left office as one of the most popular presidents in Chilean history.", "tags": ["Women", "Chile", "Michelle Bachelet", "Americas"], "title": "Michelle Bachelet | Top 100 women"},{"date": "2011-01-07T11:38:06Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We delve into the teaching diaries of those who've taken their careers overseas to find out what it's really like teaching English as a foreign language. This next article is from David Proctor, who went to teach in South America. Back in 2005 I chose to study Spanish and Geography at university, mainly due to my lack of a career plan, and also because spending the third year in a Spanish speaking country was a compulsory part of the degree. So when choosing where to go and what to do in the Hispanic world, I discovered that Leeds University luckily had a fairly flexible year abroad scheme regarding possible options and destinations. Instead of going for the boring and easy option that would be studying in Spain, I followed my adventurous, travelling instincts, and opted for Chile, to teach English with the British Council Language Assistant scheme.South America is an incredibly beautiful and diverse continent, but one that is often blighted by media reports of social divides, corruption, and drugs. Chile however is very different to its neighbours, the recent rescue of the 33 miners showed the country in its best light - organised and efficient. I was in Santiago, a spectacular capital city with hundreds of skyscrapers overshadowed by the mighty snow-capped Andes.For my first time living and working in Latin America, Chile was a great introduction to the continent. Getting used to things such as the different Spanish accent and punctuality, or the lack of it, is difficult at first, but Santiago is a developed, cosmopolitan city with fine bars, restaurants and museums to help you settle, just be careful what time you agree to meet people. Teaching in south America tends to be very different to what we're accustomed to in the UK. With a TEFL course, CELTA or equivalent, jobs are generally available teaching adults in language institutes or universities, although universities can vary enormously. Some fit the British concept, with thousands of students and superb resources, but due to a lack of public finance and student support in higher education, these will often be the most expensive and exclusive variety. Consequently there are lots of more vocational universities offering a wider range of 'cheaper' courses, such as where I taught, at La Universidad Tecnolog\u00eda de Chile, or INACAP as it's more commonly known.Financial constraints also mean most students usually live at home, which has an effect on their life experiences and maturity, making teaching in a university feel more like that of a school, rather than a higher education establishment. I had a few nightmares trying to set a fixed date for exams and assessed work, never would I have thought negotiation to be an essential skill for an English teacher.Obviously a big attraction to living abroad is the opportunity to travel. Depending where you are in Latin America, holidays can be up to three months, as in Chile and Argentina. I made the most of this time by travelling to the wilderness of Patagonia, where I rafted the clear blue water of the Futalef\u00fa river, one of the fiercest in the world, and trekked between the jagged peaks of Torres del Paine, surrounded by lakes and glaciers. Long weekends allowed me to visit Buenos Aires, a crazy city with a very European feel, and witness the incredible passion and hostility of a Boca Juniors and River Plate derby. After my contract ended I trekked to Machu Picchu in Peru and cycled down the world's most dangerous road in Bolivia to complete the adventurous theme of the year. My fascination with south America had begun.Graduating into recession in 2009 was a blessing in disguise. I took the chance to return to the continent with the British Council scheme, this time to Colombia, a country that makes most people immediately ask about drugs, then about kidnappings or guerillas, while in your mother's presence. I'm pleased to say this is nothing like the Colombia I experienced.Working in a university again, but with more confidence this time round, I was responsible for the running of the Conversation Club which gave me complete freedom in deciding what to teach, or talk about, and so kept the job lively and interesting. Colombia also has fewer native speakers than other places, but this means you can be a man in demand with a bit of effort. I ended up teaching in a private school once a week, although school starts at around 7am, which can be a challenging day with a rowdy class of thirty 10-year-olds.Cal\u00ed, Colombia's third city, was my home this time, and it's famed for beautiful women, an all year round semi-tropical climate and the self-proclaimed salsa capital of the world. Life there revolves around salsa, so naturally, I had to learn, socialising with any Cale\u00f1as is near impossible without it. By the end of the year, I'm proud to say I reached an \"advanced beginner\" level, according to my friends.Colombia is a truly beautiful country, and unlike other places in south America, has yet to be exploited by the commercial tourism that is so prevalent in places such as Peru. Its drug cartel reputation precedes it, but the national image is improving. Colombians are all too aware of what the world thinks of them, and on the most part, are only too keen to try and alter that perception with endearing generosity and friendliness that would be inconceivable in Britain.After enjoying my two years abroad immensely, I have now just completed a CELTA, and plan to return independently to Colombia again in January 2011. Living abroad is not for everyone, but if you want an adventure and a different experience, I recommend looking into TEFL and seeing the wealth of opportunities that can arise.You can read more of David Proctor's Latin adventures on his blog.", "tags": ["Graduate", "Education", "All sectors"], "title": "Teaching English in South America"},{"date": "2011-01-24T20:00:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The United States proposed giving Palestinian refugees land in South America as a radical solution to a problem that has haunted Middle East peace talks for decades.Condoleezza Rice, the Bush administration's secretary of state, wanted to settle displaced Palestinians in Argentina and Chile as an alternative to letting them return to former homes in Israel and the occupied territories. Rice made the proposal in a June 2008 meeting with US, Israeli and Palestinian negotiators in Berlin, according to minutes of the encounter seen by the Guardian.During a discussion about international funding to compensate refugees \u2013 an estimated 5 million Palestinians are scattered around the Middle East \u2013 the US diplomat made a startling suggestion.\"Maybe we will be able to find countries that can contribute in kind. Chile, Argentina, etc (ie, give land).\"The minutes, which are not verbatim, have the initials CR before the quote. Rice was the only participant with those initials.The proposal seems based on the fact that Chile has a large Palestinian community dating back a century and, like Argentina, has large tracts of sparsely populated land.It flew in the face of Palestinian insistence that the refugees have the right to return to their ancestral land \u2013 a demand Israel has resisted since its foundation in 1948. Carving out a new Palestinian homeland 8,000 miles away in the Andes could theoretically reduce pressure on Israel to return land.The proposal, not previously disclosed, is a twist on suggestions made in the last century to settle Jews in Madagascar and what is present-day Kenya. It appears to have been influenced by the transfer of 117 Palestinian refugees to Chile between March and April 2008, a few months before the Berlin meeting.The group had lived in Iraq for many years but was stranded in a grim camp on the Syrian border during post-Saddam Hussein chaos. Chile hosted them in response to a UN appeal, said Carolina Podesta de Footner, a spokeswoman for the South American office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.\"The UNHCR made an appeal to governments to take these people. Chile was one of the first countries to accept.\"As well as having Latin America's largest Palestinian population \u2013 estimated at more than 200,000 \u2013 Chile had previously accepted refugees from Afghanistan, Colombia and the former Yugoslavia. Podesta said other Palestinians from Iraq were settled in Brazil, Iceland and Romania.At the time Rice made her proposal the Iraqi Palestinians appeared to be settling well in La Calera, a city north of Santiago. They were greeted with smiles, songs and promises of help with housing, jobs and language training.But unlike previous Palestinian arrivals \u2013 mostly Christians with education and money who chose to move \u2013 the refugees were blue-collar conservative Muslims and had struggled to integrate.", "tags": ["Refugees", "Palestinian territories", "US foreign policy", "Chile", "Argentina", "The Palestine papers", "Middle East and North Africa", "US news", "Israel", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Condoleezza Rice: send Palestinian refugees to South America"},{"date": "2011-03-11T15:45:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Magnitude 9.5The world's most powerful earthquake left 4,485 people dead and injured and 2 million homeless after it struck southern Chile in 1960. The port of Puerto Saavedra was destroyed in the ensuing tsunami, which caused $550m worth of damage in Chile and killed a further 170 people as five-metre waves hit the coasts of Japan and the Philippines. A day later Volc\u00e1n Puyehue in Chile's lake district spewed ash 6,000m into the air in an eruption that lasted for several weeks.Magnitude 9.2The Gulf of Alaska was devastated by the Prince William Sound earthquake that caused landslides in Anchorage and raised parts of outlying islands by as much as 11 metres. The resulting tsunami reached heights of 67 metres as it swept into the shallow Valdez inlet and was responsible for most of the 128 deaths and $311m worth of damage. The massive water displacement was felt as far away as the Louisiana Gulf coast and registered on tidal gauges in Puerto Rico.Magnitude 9.1The deadliest tsunami in history was felt in 14 countries across Asia and east Africa, triggered by a \"megathrust\" as the Indian tectonic plate was forced beneath the Burmese plate. Indonesia was the worst affected with an estimated 170,000 of the nearly 230,000 dead. With many of the victims' bodies missing, the eventual death toll took a month to establish. Some the world's poorest communities lost more than 60% of their fishing and industrial infrastructure.Magnitude 9The volcanic Russian peninsula was near the epicentre of the quake, but it was the Hawaiian islands that took the brunt of the tsunami that caused a million dollars' worth of damage as waves scoured the coasts, ripping boats from their moorings and, in Honolulu harbour, lifting a cement barge before throwing it down on to a freighter. No deaths were recorded, unless you count the six cows lost by one unfortunate Oahu farmer, who was left cursing an event that had occurred more than 3,000 miles away.Magnitude 9Hawaii also felt the force of the tsunami created by this pacific basin earthquake, but here the destruction was just as heavy in South America with the city of Arequipa destroyed and 25,000 killed. The quake was felt as far away as La Paz in Bolivia. Four hours after the first shocks, waves as high as 16 metres inundated the coast and carried one US gunboat two miles inland to rest precariously on the edge of a 60m cliff.Magnitude 9 (estimated)The only North American account of one of the continent's largest earthquakes comes from the oral history of native Americans near Vancouver island which describes how the large community of Pachena bay was wiped out by a huge wave. Across the pacific, the quake was accurately recorded by Japanese observers of the large tsunami that struck Japan on 27 January 1700. The power of that inundation has been used by historians and seismologists to pinpoint the magnitude of the Vancouver quake.Magnitude 8.8The region around Concepci\u00f3n has been recorded as a centre for seismic shocks since the 16th century, but few have been as devastating as the early morning quake that generated a Pacific-wide tsunami and cost the lives of 521 people. With a further 12,000 injured and more than 800,000 left homeless, Chile was left reeling at the scale of a disaster that would cost the nation $30bn by the end of 2010.Magnitude 8.8Emanating from the ocean off Ecuador and Colombia, the quake generated a tsunami that killed between 500 and 1,500 people along a coastline from Central America to San Francisco. To the west in Hawaii, rivers suddenly drained about 12 hours after the first shocks, then were submerged as a series of successively larger waves flooded the coast.Magnitude 8.7The near-total destruction of Lisbon and the deaths of a quarter of the city's population were caused by an earthquake, followed by a tsunami and fire, that was felt in north Africa, France and northern Italy. In the age of enlightenment, the cultural impact of the quake spread even further afield as the horrors of Lisbon provided inspiration for sensationalist artworks and philosophical tracts. Voltaire penned a poem on the catastrophe and scientists found a wealth of written first-hand accounts to advance their understanding of the physical world.Magnitude 8.6Seventy villages simply disappeared in the string of disasters generated by an earthquake with an epicentre in Tibetan Rima but which wrought most destruction in India's Assam state. Across the region, landslides claimed the lives of 1,526 people and rendered parts of the landscape unrecognisable from the air. The quake was followed by severe flooding, and eight days after the first tremors a natural dam on the Subansiri river burst, releasing a seven-metre wall of water against nearby villages. Near the epicentre of the quake, witnesses mentioned \"explosive sounds\" that seemed to come from high in the air, while seismologists as far away as England and Norway noted \"oscillations\" in lakes.", "tags": ["Japan disaster", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Japan", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The 10 most powerful recorded earthquakes"},{"date": "2011-02-28T20:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In Chile, we understand how the people of Christchurch are feeling. Sunday was the first anniversary of the 8.8 magnitude earthquake that struck our country. We know about falling down and starting again every 25 years or so. There have been four devastating earthquakes over the last 100 years.On Sunday, the Chilean media published the numbers to remember that day last year: the energy of the earthquake was equivalent to 100,000 Hiroshima bombs; 524 people died, 25 disappeared and 800,000 were affected by it. The damage costs reached $30bn: 1,500 km of roads, 4,500 schools, two airports, 53 ports, 56 hospitals were damaged and 220,000 houses were destroyed.Just a couple of weeks after the quake, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, the first rightwing Chilean president since 1958, assumed his duties. The ceremony was marked by two strong tremors and a tsunami alert. Like that first day, his first year has been marked by the earthquake's effects and what we call \"the Reconstruction\". For this first anniversary, the government released a document with their evaluation of this process, highlighting its achievements \u2013\u00a0among others, 100% of students attending school 45 days after the earthquake, and all roads, airports and ports working \u2013 though not all of them are completely repaired.But the big problem is the one which affects people more directly: housing. On the document released by the government, it is claimed that 80,000 emergency houses have been constructed; 75,000 of them on the affected families' own plots of land. There are another 4,291 families that lost their houses in the earthquake, but don't own any land. They are the ones who have been having the worst time during this year. They are living in 106 emergency camps, in extremely bad conditions. The government has not given them access to public services because, they say, it doesn't want temporary camps becoming long-term villages. So these families, including some middle-class families used to live renting or in their own houses, have been living this whole year without access to drinking water and sharing chemical toilets with their neighbours, among other privations. The centre for investigative journalism, Ciper, has revealed further problems: nearly 2,000 families living in these emergency camps are not going to receive any kind of help, because the government judges they don't fulfill the official requirements. Among them are people who have not been able to prove they were actually affected by the earthquake, and people who live on their own \u2013 though why the government decided that one-person households don't apply for this benefit is a mystery.These people represent the 40% of the camps' population, yet the government says that 80% of this population has already been granted housing benefits. The numbers don't match. This is not the first time the government has been caught trying to make their work look better than it really is. Last Thursday, it released a set of before-and-after pictures showing how different places were damaged by the earthquake and how they look like after their reconstruction. It didn't take long for people to realise that two of those \"after\" pictures were taken before the earthquake.The government did a mea culpa and said it was a mistake. But people are angry, and there have been protests. If they are obliged to spend, as seems likely, at least another year living in these camps, things may start getting ugly. The government should take more seriously the responsibility of helping the reconstruction of these Chileans' lives. To have their own houses again would be just the minimum compensation for people who lost everything.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "US news", "Americas", "Earthquakes"], "title": "Chile and earthquake reconstruction | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-02-23T13:25:32Z", "country": "chile", "content": "While English society discusses the possibility of allowing women to carry out early medical abortions at home, in Chile the fate of reproductive justice is looking grim. There, therapeutic abortion \u2013 which is induced to preserve the health of the mother \u2013 is not even an option. Chile allowed therapeutic abortion from 1931 until 1989 \u2013 the last year of the military dictatorship that ruled the country for 17 years, leaving 3,000 dead and disappeared and 35,000 tortured. The devout Catholic generals banned abortions just before they left to protect, they said, the right to life of the unborn.A group of Chilean MPs has recently introduced a bill aiming to re-establish this right. To make a strong statement they introduced the case of Claudia Pizarro, a 28-year-old woman who had cancer and was also carrying an anencephalic baby. She was asking for a therapeutic abortion. The health minister accused her of being a setup, and the political discussion went nowhere. On 4 January Pizarro delivered a baby girl who died an hour and 15 minutes after being born.Despite being a secular state, the Catholic church is a powerful institution in Chile. Rightwing politicians are fervent believers and several of them are members of the ultra-conservative sects Opus Dei and Legionaries of Christ. They are the kind of Catholics who believe you have to accomplish the mission God gave you (in their cases: being rich, powerful and dictating everybody's lives).In 2006, the Chilean government led by socialist Michelle Bachelet, the first woman elected president, allowed the free distribution of the morning-after pill in public health centres for women over 14. Pro-life groups, the Catholic church and rightwing politicians protested, and 36 MPs requested that the constitutional tribunal protect the \"right to life\" established by the constitution. Keep in mind we're talking about the morning-after pill here, which solely prevents pregnancy and is not an abortifacient.The same people have been trying to prevent sex education and campaigns against HIV/Aids for years; abstinence is the only possible way for them. We had national campaigns against HIV/Aids that didn't talk about condoms \u2013 at all. The last one, released last December under Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's rightwing government, is especially unclear and confused with \"conceptual\" adverts, which don't give straightforward information and completely ignore the highest risk group: male homosexuals. Fifteen years ago those groups managed to cancel Jocas, the only serious sex-education policy tried in Chile, because it was revealed that some teachers were showing teenagers how to put on a condom using a banana. Granted, it might not be very elegant \u2013 but by making a scandal and calling it \"explicit and immoral\", they managed to strip Chile bare of any sex-education policy. Today, ignorance rules.In 2008, the constitutional tribunal banned the free distribution of the morning-after pill in public hospitals or health centres, but not its sale. So rich women and girls had access to the pill, but poor uneducated women did not. In 2010 the congress finally ruled by law that the morning-after pill had to be freely distributed by the public health system. But there is a catch: young girls who need the morning-after pill have to ask for it accompanied by one of their parents. Talk about a barrier: if you are young and having sex, the last people you want to know about it are your parents. Every year 30,000 teenagers become mothers; that is 13% of all births in Chile.This is our situation: women who know that their babies are going to die have to carry them for nine months and deliver them just to bury them; poor teenagers are having babies because they don't have access to sexual education or to emergency contraception, and the possibility of abortion being legal is just a dream \u2013 but meanwhile, every year, about 40,000 women risk their lives having illegal abortions in the worst conditions. What will it take for Chile to not take women's lives for granted?", "tags": ["Chile", "Abortion", "Catholicism", "Christianity", "Sex education", "Women", "Health", "Religion", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile: where abortion isn't an option | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-01-18T18:34:02Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Protesters in southern Chile have blocked roads and turned thousands of tourists into \"hostages\", prompting some to try to escape by trekking to the airport on foot.Tourists are dragging luggage for miles to and from Punta Arenas airport as roadblocks paralyse transport in a dispute with the government over fuel subsidies.Tourists, mostly from Argentina, Europe and North America, staged their own demonstration to complain about dwindling food, money and patience, with some saying they had been \"kidnapped\".Paul Sullivan, 22, a backpacker from Devon, started hiking yesterday from Punta Arenas \u2013 one of the world's most southern cities \u2013 to the airport 15 miles away. He passed five roadblocks where locals offered soup, rice and meat, but made no apology for marooning him and an estimated 2,000 visitors since last Tuesday. \"They were very friendly and gave me some coffee and apples to send me on my way,\" he told the Guardian.The civil engineering graduate hitched rides part of the way from vehicles which shuttled between roadblocks. In the opposite direction trudged people with suitcases \u2013 tourists who had just landed, unaware there was a general strike, and were trying to get to town.Sullivan made it out, as did a French couple, but hotels remained filled with holidaymakers desperate to leave but hesitant to do so on foot in cold, windy conditions. By coincidence this week was the 100th anniversary of Captain Scott's doomed Antarctic trek.Locals reneged on several promises to let tourists leave, hardening suspicion they wanted to keep them as bargaining chips, said Sullivan. \"People weren't happy. Some felt they were hostages but I didn't feel it was that extreme.\" A protest by tourists verbally clashed with local strikers, fuelling tension.The military evacuated a large group from Puerto Natales by air but others in Torres del Paine national park reportedly remained stranded. \"Tourists here are unable to leave unless they walk to the Argentina border, the nearest point being over 35km [22 miles] away, and end up the middle of nowhere in Argentina,\" said one visitor, Lee Schmidtchen, via email.\"Kidnapped was the word most repeated in various languages,\" reported El Mercurio newspaper. The Red Cross has set up a shelter in a school for tourists who have run out of money.Tourism industry chiefs said the Magallanes region had lost more than $4m and damaged its reputation.The dispute flared when President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's government announced a 17% rise in the price of natural gas as part of a plan to tackle Chile's energy deficit and to reduce subsidies paid by the state-owned National Petroleum Company.People in the frigid Magallanes, who use gas to heat homes and power vehicles and factories, complained that they would be unfairly hit. Protests radicalised after an unidentified trucker rammed a barricade and knocked two women into a bonfire, killing them. The interior ministry further alienated protesters by threatening to send soldiers to dismantle roadblocks.Pi\u00f1era, facing his worst crisis since 33 miners were trapped last year, gave the hero of that rescue, the mining minister Laurence Golborne, the energy portfolio to see if he can work his magic again. Golborne flew to Punta Arenas yesterday to try to defuse a crisis that analysts said could prove politically far trickier than extracting men from a collapsed copper and gold mine.", "tags": ["Chile", "Air transport", "Travel", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile tourists 'held hostage' by protesters"},{"date": "2011-03-08T00:05:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Michelle Bachelet, former president of Chile, is used to being first. She was the first female president of the South American country after becoming its first female defence minister. Now aged 59, she is the first head of the newly created UN Women, the United Nations organisation dedicated to gender equality.The former paediatrician and epidemiologist is now promoting\u00a0female empowerment across the globe. On taking up the new role she said: \"We have a historic opportunity to accelerate the achievement of what champions of gender equality have worked towards for years.\"Her early life prepared her for such challenges. As a student, Bachelet survived torture after her father, an army general, opposed the coup that brought Augusto Pinochet to power. As a divorced, agnostic mother of three in a Catholic country, her 2005 election campaign focused on meeting the needs of the country's poor, reforming the pension system and promoting the rights of women and indigenous communities. As one panel member said, she is a sign of hope for women who suffered in Latin America's brutal politics: \"She talks to anyone who lost someone in the dirty war \u2013 and is an example of how you can turn your hatred to something positive.\"Once in office, Bachelet shattered the conservative image of Chilean politics, ensuring half her cabinet were women. She also introduced women-friendly policies such as tripling the number of free creches. Although she encountered criticism over her response to the 2010 tsunami in which more than 500 Chileans died, her handling of the impact of the global financial crisis \u2013 she had insisted on saving money during the country's boom years \u2013 meant she left office as one of the most popular presidents in Chilean history.", "tags": ["Women", "Chile", "Michelle Bachelet", "Americas"], "title": "Michelle Bachelet | Top 100 women"},{"date": "2011-01-07T11:38:06Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We delve into the teaching diaries of those who've taken their careers overseas to find out what it's really like teaching English as a foreign language. This next article is from David Proctor, who went to teach in South America. Back in 2005 I chose to study Spanish and Geography at university, mainly due to my lack of a career plan, and also because spending the third year in a Spanish speaking country was a compulsory part of the degree. So when choosing where to go and what to do in the Hispanic world, I discovered that Leeds University luckily had a fairly flexible year abroad scheme regarding possible options and destinations. Instead of going for the boring and easy option that would be studying in Spain, I followed my adventurous, travelling instincts, and opted for Chile, to teach English with the British Council Language Assistant scheme.South America is an incredibly beautiful and diverse continent, but one that is often blighted by media reports of social divides, corruption, and drugs. Chile however is very different to its neighbours, the recent rescue of the 33 miners showed the country in its best light - organised and efficient. I was in Santiago, a spectacular capital city with hundreds of skyscrapers overshadowed by the mighty snow-capped Andes.For my first time living and working in Latin America, Chile was a great introduction to the continent. Getting used to things such as the different Spanish accent and punctuality, or the lack of it, is difficult at first, but Santiago is a developed, cosmopolitan city with fine bars, restaurants and museums to help you settle, just be careful what time you agree to meet people. Teaching in south America tends to be very different to what we're accustomed to in the UK. With a TEFL course, CELTA or equivalent, jobs are generally available teaching adults in language institutes or universities, although universities can vary enormously. Some fit the British concept, with thousands of students and superb resources, but due to a lack of public finance and student support in higher education, these will often be the most expensive and exclusive variety. Consequently there are lots of more vocational universities offering a wider range of 'cheaper' courses, such as where I taught, at La Universidad Tecnolog\u00eda de Chile, or INACAP as it's more commonly known.Financial constraints also mean most students usually live at home, which has an effect on their life experiences and maturity, making teaching in a university feel more like that of a school, rather than a higher education establishment. I had a few nightmares trying to set a fixed date for exams and assessed work, never would I have thought negotiation to be an essential skill for an English teacher.Obviously a big attraction to living abroad is the opportunity to travel. Depending where you are in Latin America, holidays can be up to three months, as in Chile and Argentina. I made the most of this time by travelling to the wilderness of Patagonia, where I rafted the clear blue water of the Futalef\u00fa river, one of the fiercest in the world, and trekked between the jagged peaks of Torres del Paine, surrounded by lakes and glaciers. Long weekends allowed me to visit Buenos Aires, a crazy city with a very European feel, and witness the incredible passion and hostility of a Boca Juniors and River Plate derby. After my contract ended I trekked to Machu Picchu in Peru and cycled down the world's most dangerous road in Bolivia to complete the adventurous theme of the year. My fascination with south America had begun.Graduating into recession in 2009 was a blessing in disguise. I took the chance to return to the continent with the British Council scheme, this time to Colombia, a country that makes most people immediately ask about drugs, then about kidnappings or guerillas, while in your mother's presence. I'm pleased to say this is nothing like the Colombia I experienced.Working in a university again, but with more confidence this time round, I was responsible for the running of the Conversation Club which gave me complete freedom in deciding what to teach, or talk about, and so kept the job lively and interesting. Colombia also has fewer native speakers than other places, but this means you can be a man in demand with a bit of effort. I ended up teaching in a private school once a week, although school starts at around 7am, which can be a challenging day with a rowdy class of thirty 10-year-olds.Cal\u00ed, Colombia's third city, was my home this time, and it's famed for beautiful women, an all year round semi-tropical climate and the self-proclaimed salsa capital of the world. Life there revolves around salsa, so naturally, I had to learn, socialising with any Cale\u00f1as is near impossible without it. By the end of the year, I'm proud to say I reached an \"advanced beginner\" level, according to my friends.Colombia is a truly beautiful country, and unlike other places in south America, has yet to be exploited by the commercial tourism that is so prevalent in places such as Peru. Its drug cartel reputation precedes it, but the national image is improving. Colombians are all too aware of what the world thinks of them, and on the most part, are only too keen to try and alter that perception with endearing generosity and friendliness that would be inconceivable in Britain.After enjoying my two years abroad immensely, I have now just completed a CELTA, and plan to return independently to Colombia again in January 2011. Living abroad is not for everyone, but if you want an adventure and a different experience, I recommend looking into TEFL and seeing the wealth of opportunities that can arise.You can read more of David Proctor's Latin adventures on his blog.", "tags": ["Graduate", "Education", "All sectors"], "title": "Teaching English in South America"},{"date": "2011-01-24T20:00:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The United States proposed giving Palestinian refugees land in South America as a radical solution to a problem that has haunted Middle East peace talks for decades.Condoleezza Rice, the Bush administration's secretary of state, wanted to settle displaced Palestinians in Argentina and Chile as an alternative to letting them return to former homes in Israel and the occupied territories. Rice made the proposal in a June 2008 meeting with US, Israeli and Palestinian negotiators in Berlin, according to minutes of the encounter seen by the Guardian.During a discussion about international funding to compensate refugees \u2013 an estimated 5 million Palestinians are scattered around the Middle East \u2013 the US diplomat made a startling suggestion.\"Maybe we will be able to find countries that can contribute in kind. Chile, Argentina, etc (ie, give land).\"The minutes, which are not verbatim, have the initials CR before the quote. Rice was the only participant with those initials.The proposal seems based on the fact that Chile has a large Palestinian community dating back a century and, like Argentina, has large tracts of sparsely populated land.It flew in the face of Palestinian insistence that the refugees have the right to return to their ancestral land \u2013 a demand Israel has resisted since its foundation in 1948. Carving out a new Palestinian homeland 8,000 miles away in the Andes could theoretically reduce pressure on Israel to return land.The proposal, not previously disclosed, is a twist on suggestions made in the last century to settle Jews in Madagascar and what is present-day Kenya. It appears to have been influenced by the transfer of 117 Palestinian refugees to Chile between March and April 2008, a few months before the Berlin meeting.The group had lived in Iraq for many years but was stranded in a grim camp on the Syrian border during post-Saddam Hussein chaos. Chile hosted them in response to a UN appeal, said Carolina Podesta de Footner, a spokeswoman for the South American office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.\"The UNHCR made an appeal to governments to take these people. Chile was one of the first countries to accept.\"As well as having Latin America's largest Palestinian population \u2013 estimated at more than 200,000 \u2013 Chile had previously accepted refugees from Afghanistan, Colombia and the former Yugoslavia. Podesta said other Palestinians from Iraq were settled in Brazil, Iceland and Romania.At the time Rice made her proposal the Iraqi Palestinians appeared to be settling well in La Calera, a city north of Santiago. They were greeted with smiles, songs and promises of help with housing, jobs and language training.But unlike previous Palestinian arrivals \u2013 mostly Christians with education and money who chose to move \u2013 the refugees were blue-collar conservative Muslims and had struggled to integrate.", "tags": ["Refugees", "Palestinian territories", "US foreign policy", "Chile", "Argentina", "The Palestine papers", "Middle East and North Africa", "US news", "Israel", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Condoleezza Rice: send Palestinian refugees to South America"},{"date": "2011-03-11T15:45:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Magnitude 9.5The world's most powerful earthquake left 4,485 people dead and injured and 2 million homeless after it struck southern Chile in 1960. The port of Puerto Saavedra was destroyed in the ensuing tsunami, which caused $550m worth of damage in Chile and killed a further 170 people as five-metre waves hit the coasts of Japan and the Philippines. A day later Volc\u00e1n Puyehue in Chile's lake district spewed ash 6,000m into the air in an eruption that lasted for several weeks.Magnitude 9.2The Gulf of Alaska was devastated by the Prince William Sound earthquake that caused landslides in Anchorage and raised parts of outlying islands by as much as 11 metres. The resulting tsunami reached heights of 67 metres as it swept into the shallow Valdez inlet and was responsible for most of the 128 deaths and $311m worth of damage. The massive water displacement was felt as far away as the Louisiana Gulf coast and registered on tidal gauges in Puerto Rico.Magnitude 9.1The deadliest tsunami in history was felt in 14 countries across Asia and east Africa, triggered by a \"megathrust\" as the Indian tectonic plate was forced beneath the Burmese plate. Indonesia was the worst affected with an estimated 170,000 of the nearly 230,000 dead. With many of the victims' bodies missing, the eventual death toll took a month to establish. Some the world's poorest communities lost more than 60% of their fishing and industrial infrastructure.Magnitude 9The volcanic Russian peninsula was near the epicentre of the quake, but it was the Hawaiian islands that took the brunt of the tsunami that caused a million dollars' worth of damage as waves scoured the coasts, ripping boats from their moorings and, in Honolulu harbour, lifting a cement barge before throwing it down on to a freighter. No deaths were recorded, unless you count the six cows lost by one unfortunate Oahu farmer, who was left cursing an event that had occurred more than 3,000 miles away.Magnitude 9Hawaii also felt the force of the tsunami created by this pacific basin earthquake, but here the destruction was just as heavy in South America with the city of Arequipa destroyed and 25,000 killed. The quake was felt as far away as La Paz in Bolivia. Four hours after the first shocks, waves as high as 16 metres inundated the coast and carried one US gunboat two miles inland to rest precariously on the edge of a 60m cliff.Magnitude 9 (estimated)The only North American account of one of the continent's largest earthquakes comes from the oral history of native Americans near Vancouver island which describes how the large community of Pachena bay was wiped out by a huge wave. Across the pacific, the quake was accurately recorded by Japanese observers of the large tsunami that struck Japan on 27 January 1700. The power of that inundation has been used by historians and seismologists to pinpoint the magnitude of the Vancouver quake.Magnitude 8.8The region around Concepci\u00f3n has been recorded as a centre for seismic shocks since the 16th century, but few have been as devastating as the early morning quake that generated a Pacific-wide tsunami and cost the lives of 521 people. With a further 12,000 injured and more than 800,000 left homeless, Chile was left reeling at the scale of a disaster that would cost the nation $30bn by the end of 2010.Magnitude 8.8Emanating from the ocean off Ecuador and Colombia, the quake generated a tsunami that killed between 500 and 1,500 people along a coastline from Central America to San Francisco. To the west in Hawaii, rivers suddenly drained about 12 hours after the first shocks, then were submerged as a series of successively larger waves flooded the coast.Magnitude 8.7The near-total destruction of Lisbon and the deaths of a quarter of the city's population were caused by an earthquake, followed by a tsunami and fire, that was felt in north Africa, France and northern Italy. In the age of enlightenment, the cultural impact of the quake spread even further afield as the horrors of Lisbon provided inspiration for sensationalist artworks and philosophical tracts. Voltaire penned a poem on the catastrophe and scientists found a wealth of written first-hand accounts to advance their understanding of the physical world.Magnitude 8.6Seventy villages simply disappeared in the string of disasters generated by an earthquake with an epicentre in Tibetan Rima but which wrought most destruction in India's Assam state. Across the region, landslides claimed the lives of 1,526 people and rendered parts of the landscape unrecognisable from the air. The quake was followed by severe flooding, and eight days after the first tremors a natural dam on the Subansiri river burst, releasing a seven-metre wall of water against nearby villages. Near the epicentre of the quake, witnesses mentioned \"explosive sounds\" that seemed to come from high in the air, while seismologists as far away as England and Norway noted \"oscillations\" in lakes.", "tags": ["Japan disaster", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Japan", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "The 10 most powerful recorded earthquakes"},{"date": "2011-03-23T11:44:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "For decades, many of the poorest in developing countries have been left reeling from free-market World Bank and International Monetary Fund (IMF) economic policies. Structural Adjustment Policies (SAPs) included forced privatisation, public spending cuts and lowered taxes on the global south. They spelled a triumph for Milton Freedman's Chicago School of Economics, which proposed that only by leaving everything to the market could economies flourish. Prosperity did rise for the few, as levels of inequality deepened. Sound familiar?The austerity agenda in the UK and across Europe turns this dogma inward, with SAPs finally coming home to roost. Is this finally the signal we need to fight for more progressive economic justice throughout the world?Following a relatively stable period in the post-war years, when Keynesian economics proved a great success and the NHS was built, a succession of governments that favoured market-based policies came to power in America and the UK.This free-market ideology, known as neoliberalism, was backed by a range of privately funded rightwing thinktanks, such as the American Enterprise Institute, and Britain's Institute of Economic Affairs.In the developing world, neoliberalism was translated into the Washington Consensus. The experiment started in 1970s Chile, with Friedman advising dictator General Pinochet to cut public spending and let the corporate sector take over. The results were disastrous. Inflation rose to 375% in 1974, and by 1975 Chile suffered unemployment of almost 30%. By the 1980s Chile had one of the highest rates of inequality in the world. The country's debt exploded as the rich became richer and the poor became poorer. Chile only recovered once these prescriptions were binned.Yet the experience was spun by corporate lobbyists and rightwing thinktanks as a much-needed pain that Chile had to endure, as the policies were then rolled out across the world. As a result, what was ultimately a set of prescriptions for Latin America became translated as the only path to development.Just as the UK is now attempting to repay its debt within four years at the expense of the most vulnerable in our society, SAPs were imposed on countries such as Chile to prioritise debt repayment over expenditure on health, education and development.While debt flourished, millions suffered, as the private sector swooped in and extracted as much value as it could. Throughout the 1990s and 2000s, poor countries sold off vital agricultural lands, prioritising export-led growth (where mainly big companies survive) over feeding their own people, alongside privatising public services.Water privatisation in the south, for one, failed abysmally, with fewer than 900 people connected per day over 10 years, instead of the needed 200,000 people that would be needed to meet the millennium development goal. Private sector options were pushed because of ideology, not common sense.Even the IMF admitted it got it wrong. In a 2004 report, it concluded: \"It cannot be taken for granted that public-private partnerships are more efficient than public investment and government supply of services\u2026 the theory is ambiguous and the empirical evidence is mixed.\"A review by the IMF of privatisation showed that SAPs often resulted in rising unemployment, an erosion of tax revenues and increased debts.In fact, four of the five fastest growing developing countries in the late 1990s were those that rejected neoliberalism. After a severe famine in 2005, Malawi rejected IMF and World Bank prescriptions and subsidised fertiliser for poor farmers. As a result, during the 2007/08 food price crisis, Malawi was not only able to feed its population, but became a bread basket to the region.So why are we treading this uncertain path here? In the UK we're seeing banks grant bonuses equivalent to DfID's entire annual budget, but calling our debt levels unsustainable. The government is slashing hundreds of thousands of jobs and dismantling our welfare system to balance the budget. Ex-Treasury official David Blanchflower has argued that \"the cuts will lead to a spiral of unemployment and leave a further 3 million people jobless.\"The deficit isn't caused by profligate government spending to support an over-bloated welfare state, but by a massive bank bailout, shrinking government revenues, and a decline in corporate taxation. As in the developing world, maintaining public spending is what we need for long-term support to our economy, and to our populations.Throughout the global south, social movements are fighting the dogma of austerity and privatisation. For decades, Europe has been held up as a paragon for how social democracy can work, by providing free healthcare or education, and ensuring people have a high quality of life at the same time. The legacy of the Chicago School is invading this last battleground for social justice. Fighting the austerity agenda at home is a truly globally relevant campaign.", "tags": ["Public sector cuts", "Public services policy", "Public finance", "Society", "Financial crisis", "Global recession", "Business", "World Bank", "World news", "Economics", "International Monetary Fund (IMF)", "Privatisation", "Economic policy", "Politics", "Austerity"], "title": "Neoliberal policies have no place in the post-crash world | Deborah Doane"},{"date": "2011-04-27T16:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean poet Gonzalo Rojas died on Monday morning aged 93, and the government has declared two days of national mourning. I met him in 2006 when, as a young journalist, I wanted to interview one of the most important Chilean poets of the 20th century \u2013 with Nobel prizewinners Gabriela Mistral and Pablo Neruda under Chile's belt, we have high standards.Rojas received me in his house in Chill\u00e1n, a small city in the south of the country. The first thing I remember is his collection of 35,000 books. He told me he had read them all. He was not just a writer \u2013 he had also been a professor in the US, at Columbia and Chicago universities, as well as having taught in Germany, Venezuela, Spain, Mexico and, of course, his home country.His work has been translated into English, German, French, Portuguese, Russian, Italian, Rumanian, Swedish, Chinese, Turkish and Greek. He was awarded the Chilean national prize for literature, the Queen Sofia prize of Iberian American poetry, Mexico's Octavio Paz prize and in 2003, the Cervantes prize for literature.His home had four or five different bedrooms. He didn't like to wake up in the same place every morning. One had a sexy bed with mirrors. He bought it in China and wrote about it in his poem Bed of Mirrors. This mirrored bed is symbolic of two dimensions of Rojas's work and life. On the one hand, that eroticism \u2013 together with love and death \u2013 was an important element in his poetry and in his life: the anthology What Do We Love When We Love gathers 41 of his erotic poems.On the other hand, there is China and politics. In 1959, Rojas visited the country and managed to meet, and talk, for an hour and a half with Mao Zedong. He told me they didn't talk about politics and that he was impressed with \"that colossal animal\". He especially remembered Mao's hands: \"thin, feminine\". He said it was because of that meeting that President Salvador Allende asked him to be cultural counsel in China, back in 1970 (Rojas never belonged to any political party, but he was leftwing).He was in China for a year and was sent to Cuba afterwards. Rojas was there at the time of the 1973 Chilean military coup. Because of his previous political work for Allende, Pinochet's dictatorship stripped him of his nationality, and he and his family had to find exile in East Germany and Venezuela. He went back to Chile in 1979 thanks to a Guggenheim fellowship, but found he was not able to work at all, and because he was banned from teaching at any Chilean university, he went to live in the US.Coming back to Chile once again in 1995, Rojas refused to live in the capital, Santiago He chose Chill\u00e1n, 400km to the south, which was the hometown of his second wife, Hilda May, and their son. Rojas himself was born in a southern small town called Lebu, into a coalmining family. He told me: \"They have asked me a thousand times, 'Why don't you go to live in Spain? You have a job there, they awarded you. Why don't you go to US? You have a house there.' No, I like it here, the people from the provinces, this simplicity.\"At the Chilean National Museum of Fine Arts in Santiago, Chileans have been holding a wake over the poet's body. He is being taken back to Chill\u00e1n, where he will be buried. The king of Spain, Juan Carlos, who is awarding the Cervantes prize to the Spanish writer Ana Mar\u00eda Matutes on Wednesday, remembered when he met Rojas for the same awards ceremony years ago: \"He liked to introduce himself as a coalminer's son, and to imagine Cervantes reading the world and rereading us.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Poetry", "Books", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Chile mourns for Gonzalo Rojas | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-04-27T16:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean poet Gonzalo Rojas died on Monday morning aged 93, and the government has declared two days of national mourning. I met him in 2006 when, as a young journalist, I wanted to interview one of the most important Chilean poets of the 20th century \u2013 with Nobel prizewinners Gabriela Mistral and Pablo Neruda under Chile's belt, we have high standards.Rojas received me in his house in Chill\u00e1n, a small city in the south of the country. The first thing I remember is his collection of 35,000 books. He told me he had read them all. He was not just a writer \u2013 he had also been a professor in the US, at Columbia and Chicago universities, as well as having taught in Germany, Venezuela, Spain, Mexico and, of course, his home country.His work has been translated into English, German, French, Portuguese, Russian, Italian, Rumanian, Swedish, Chinese, Turkish and Greek. He was awarded the Chilean national prize for literature, the Queen Sofia prize of Iberian American poetry, Mexico's Octavio Paz prize and in 2003, the Cervantes prize for literature.His home had four or five different bedrooms. He didn't like to wake up in the same place every morning. One had a sexy bed with mirrors. He bought it in China and wrote about it in his poem Bed of Mirrors. This mirrored bed is symbolic of two dimensions of Rojas's work and life. On the one hand, that eroticism \u2013 together with love and death \u2013 was an important element in his poetry and in his life: the anthology What Do We Love When We Love gathers 41 of his erotic poems.On the other hand, there is China and politics. In 1959, Rojas visited the country and managed to meet, and talk, for an hour and a half with Mao Zedong. He told me they didn't talk about politics and that he was impressed with \"that colossal animal\". He especially remembered Mao's hands: \"thin, feminine\". He said it was because of that meeting that President Salvador Allende asked him to be cultural counsel in China, back in 1970 (Rojas never belonged to any political party, but he was leftwing).He was in China for a year and was sent to Cuba afterwards. Rojas was there at the time of the 1973 Chilean military coup. Because of his previous political work for Allende, Pinochet's dictatorship stripped him of his nationality, and he and his family had to find exile in East Germany and Venezuela. He went back to Chile in 1979 thanks to a Guggenheim fellowship, but found he was not able to work at all, and because he was banned from teaching at any Chilean university, he went to live in the US.Coming back to Chile once again in 1995, Rojas refused to live in the capital, Santiago He chose Chill\u00e1n, 400km to the south, which was the hometown of his second wife, Hilda May, and their son. Rojas himself was born in a southern small town called Lebu, into a coalmining family. He told me: \"They have asked me a thousand times, 'Why don't you go to live in Spain? You have a job there, they awarded you. Why don't you go to US? You have a house there.' No, I like it here, the people from the provinces, this simplicity.\"At the Chilean National Museum of Fine Arts in Santiago, Chileans have been holding a wake over the poet's body. He is being taken back to Chill\u00e1n, where he will be buried. The king of Spain, Juan Carlos, who is awarding the Cervantes prize to the Spanish writer Ana Mar\u00eda Matutes on Wednesday, remembered when he met Rojas for the same awards ceremony years ago: \"He liked to introduce himself as a coalminer's son, and to imagine Cervantes reading the world and rereading us.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Poetry", "Books", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Chile mourns for Gonzalo Rojas | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-06-22T14:32:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile's Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era government is facing hard times. In addition to citizen disapproval rates currently standing at 56%, he now has to contend with massive student protests of a scale not seen in Chile since the return of democracy in 1990. The latest large-scale protest brought together hundreds of thousands of people across the country, demanding better public education and social justice in one of the countries with, according to the Gini index, the highest inequality levels.The clearest reflection of this inequality in Chile can be seen in education. As a result of a series of neoliberal reforms, Chile has developed one of the world's most segregated education systems, with insufficient state participation. Public expenditure on education accounts for 4% of the gross domestic product, compared with 7% in developed countries. This has translated into a growing privatisation trend in education since the 1980s.Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship prioritised freedom of education over the right to education, opening up education to the market, as though it were a product to buy and sell. The Concertaci\u00f3n, a social democratic coalition that governed from 1990 to 2010, administered this model, introducing certain reforms that focused on access but neglected quality and equality. Today, only 10% of Chilean students access schools that will provide them with real opportunities for the future.Most students wander between precarious public schools and deficient subsidised or voucher schools. The university system was also reformed in the 1980s, allowing a proliferation of private universities (very few of which are decent) which, despite being classified as non-profit organisations, nevertheless yield juicy returns for their owners thanks to a series of subterfuges. The minister of education himself, Joaqu\u00edn Lav\u00edn, owned a university before taking office.By contrast, public universities have become increasingly weak and today are barely able to finance their most basic operations. For instance, the University of Chile, the country's main university and one of the best in Latin America, only receives 14% of its budget from the state. It has to be financed with degree fees, passing on the financial burden to its students. In fact, families finance 73% of higher education in Chile, a figure that greatly exceeds the average (16%) for OECD countries. This is one of the main demands of the students who are now taking to the streets. They carry enormous debts, which could reach $100,000 (\u00a362,000) within 20 years.The current education system is founded upon neoliberalism, privatisation, a climate of over-expectation and promises of social mobility. However, Chilean society is stratified, with a small group holding all the privileges. There is no real room for meritocracy or equal opportunities. For instance, the unemployment rate among young people (15.2%) is more than double the national average. Most young people are building up frustration by seeing how their hopes for the future clash with the sad reality.The first signs of this malaise appeared in 2006, when thousands of secondary school students took to the streets in what became known as the \"penguins' revolution\". They managed to overturn the LOCE, the organic law on education established by Pinochet's dictatorship, which was then replaced by the Ley General de Educaci\u00f3n (LGE) in an agreement signed by all political parties. However, the law failed to satisfy both students and teachers because, once again, no real reform of the public education system had been undertaken.Students and teachers understand that strengthening public education will greatly contribute to building a fairer society and a better democracy. The neoliberal reforms that promoted competition and privatisation have failed because they have been unable to bridge the existing social divides and have perpetuated privileges.Some say that the Chilean education system is not in crisis and resort to figures regarding access to argue their point. However, they say nothing of the inequality or the quality of the education. Luckily, students are mobilising to remind us that a better public education means a better country.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Students", "Education", "Protest", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Students march for a better Chile | Cristian Cabalin"},{"date": "2011-04-27T16:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean poet Gonzalo Rojas died on Monday morning aged 93, and the government has declared two days of national mourning. I met him in 2006 when, as a young journalist, I wanted to interview one of the most important Chilean poets of the 20th century \u2013 with Nobel prizewinners Gabriela Mistral and Pablo Neruda under Chile's belt, we have high standards.Rojas received me in his house in Chill\u00e1n, a small city in the south of the country. The first thing I remember is his collection of 35,000 books. He told me he had read them all. He was not just a writer \u2013 he had also been a professor in the US, at Columbia and Chicago universities, as well as having taught in Germany, Venezuela, Spain, Mexico and, of course, his home country.His work has been translated into English, German, French, Portuguese, Russian, Italian, Rumanian, Swedish, Chinese, Turkish and Greek. He was awarded the Chilean national prize for literature, the Queen Sofia prize of Iberian American poetry, Mexico's Octavio Paz prize and in 2003, the Cervantes prize for literature.His home had four or five different bedrooms. He didn't like to wake up in the same place every morning. One had a sexy bed with mirrors. He bought it in China and wrote about it in his poem Bed of Mirrors. This mirrored bed is symbolic of two dimensions of Rojas's work and life. On the one hand, that eroticism \u2013 together with love and death \u2013 was an important element in his poetry and in his life: the anthology What Do We Love When We Love gathers 41 of his erotic poems.On the other hand, there is China and politics. In 1959, Rojas visited the country and managed to meet, and talk, for an hour and a half with Mao Zedong. He told me they didn't talk about politics and that he was impressed with \"that colossal animal\". He especially remembered Mao's hands: \"thin, feminine\". He said it was because of that meeting that President Salvador Allende asked him to be cultural counsel in China, back in 1970 (Rojas never belonged to any political party, but he was leftwing).He was in China for a year and was sent to Cuba afterwards. Rojas was there at the time of the 1973 Chilean military coup. Because of his previous political work for Allende, Pinochet's dictatorship stripped him of his nationality, and he and his family had to find exile in East Germany and Venezuela. He went back to Chile in 1979 thanks to a Guggenheim fellowship, but found he was not able to work at all, and because he was banned from teaching at any Chilean university, he went to live in the US.Coming back to Chile once again in 1995, Rojas refused to live in the capital, Santiago He chose Chill\u00e1n, 400km to the south, which was the hometown of his second wife, Hilda May, and their son. Rojas himself was born in a southern small town called Lebu, into a coalmining family. He told me: \"They have asked me a thousand times, 'Why don't you go to live in Spain? You have a job there, they awarded you. Why don't you go to US? You have a house there.' No, I like it here, the people from the provinces, this simplicity.\"At the Chilean National Museum of Fine Arts in Santiago, Chileans have been holding a wake over the poet's body. He is being taken back to Chill\u00e1n, where he will be buried. The king of Spain, Juan Carlos, who is awarding the Cervantes prize to the Spanish writer Ana Mar\u00eda Matutes on Wednesday, remembered when he met Rojas for the same awards ceremony years ago: \"He liked to introduce himself as a coalminer's son, and to imagine Cervantes reading the world and rereading us.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Poetry", "Books", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Chile mourns for Gonzalo Rojas | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-06-22T14:32:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile's Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era government is facing hard times. In addition to citizen disapproval rates currently standing at 56%, he now has to contend with massive student protests of a scale not seen in Chile since the return of democracy in 1990. The latest large-scale protest brought together hundreds of thousands of people across the country, demanding better public education and social justice in one of the countries with, according to the Gini index, the highest inequality levels.The clearest reflection of this inequality in Chile can be seen in education. As a result of a series of neoliberal reforms, Chile has developed one of the world's most segregated education systems, with insufficient state participation. Public expenditure on education accounts for 4% of the gross domestic product, compared with 7% in developed countries. This has translated into a growing privatisation trend in education since the 1980s.Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship prioritised freedom of education over the right to education, opening up education to the market, as though it were a product to buy and sell. The Concertaci\u00f3n, a social democratic coalition that governed from 1990 to 2010, administered this model, introducing certain reforms that focused on access but neglected quality and equality. Today, only 10% of Chilean students access schools that will provide them with real opportunities for the future.Most students wander between precarious public schools and deficient subsidised or voucher schools. The university system was also reformed in the 1980s, allowing a proliferation of private universities (very few of which are decent) which, despite being classified as non-profit organisations, nevertheless yield juicy returns for their owners thanks to a series of subterfuges. The minister of education himself, Joaqu\u00edn Lav\u00edn, owned a university before taking office.By contrast, public universities have become increasingly weak and today are barely able to finance their most basic operations. For instance, the University of Chile, the country's main university and one of the best in Latin America, only receives 14% of its budget from the state. It has to be financed with degree fees, passing on the financial burden to its students. In fact, families finance 73% of higher education in Chile, a figure that greatly exceeds the average (16%) for OECD countries. This is one of the main demands of the students who are now taking to the streets. They carry enormous debts, which could reach $100,000 (\u00a362,000) within 20 years.The current education system is founded upon neoliberalism, privatisation, a climate of over-expectation and promises of social mobility. However, Chilean society is stratified, with a small group holding all the privileges. There is no real room for meritocracy or equal opportunities. For instance, the unemployment rate among young people (15.2%) is more than double the national average. Most young people are building up frustration by seeing how their hopes for the future clash with the sad reality.The first signs of this malaise appeared in 2006, when thousands of secondary school students took to the streets in what became known as the \"penguins' revolution\". They managed to overturn the LOCE, the organic law on education established by Pinochet's dictatorship, which was then replaced by the Ley General de Educaci\u00f3n (LGE) in an agreement signed by all political parties. However, the law failed to satisfy both students and teachers because, once again, no real reform of the public education system had been undertaken.Students and teachers understand that strengthening public education will greatly contribute to building a fairer society and a better democracy. The neoliberal reforms that promoted competition and privatisation have failed because they have been unable to bridge the existing social divides and have perpetuated privileges.Some say that the Chilean education system is not in crisis and resort to figures regarding access to argue their point. However, they say nothing of the inequality or the quality of the education. Luckily, students are mobilising to remind us that a better public education means a better country.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Students", "Education", "Protest", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Students march for a better Chile | Cristian Cabalin"},{"date": "2011-06-04T23:09:17Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Thousands of people have been evacuated from their homes after a volcano which has been dormant for decades started erupting in southern Chile.Large columns of smoke reached more than six miles from the crater of the Puyehue volcano, which lies about 500 miles south of the capital, Santiago.Winds fanned the ash towards neighbouring Argentina over the skies in the ski resort city of San Carlos de Bariloche, which caused the local airport to close.The governor of Chile's Los Rios region said fire could be seen in the volcano's crater and smoke was billowing into the sky.The eruption prompted authorities to shut a heavily travelled border crossing with Argentina, but there have been no reports of injuries.The Chilean government said it was evacuating 3,500 people from the surrounding area as a precaution.Authorities put the area around the volcano on alert after a flurry of earthquakes. The National Emergency Office says it has recorded an average of 230 tremors an hour.\"The Cordon Caulle (volcanic range) has entered an eruptive process, with an explosion resulting in a 10-kilometre-high gas column,\" state emergency office ONEMI said.The chain of Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanos \u2013 of which there are four \u2013 last saw a major eruption in 1960.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Puyehue volcano in Chile erupts, prompting mass evacuation"},{"date": "2011-04-27T16:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean poet Gonzalo Rojas died on Monday morning aged 93, and the government has declared two days of national mourning. I met him in 2006 when, as a young journalist, I wanted to interview one of the most important Chilean poets of the 20th century \u2013 with Nobel prizewinners Gabriela Mistral and Pablo Neruda under Chile's belt, we have high standards.Rojas received me in his house in Chill\u00e1n, a small city in the south of the country. The first thing I remember is his collection of 35,000 books. He told me he had read them all. He was not just a writer \u2013 he had also been a professor in the US, at Columbia and Chicago universities, as well as having taught in Germany, Venezuela, Spain, Mexico and, of course, his home country.His work has been translated into English, German, French, Portuguese, Russian, Italian, Rumanian, Swedish, Chinese, Turkish and Greek. He was awarded the Chilean national prize for literature, the Queen Sofia prize of Iberian American poetry, Mexico's Octavio Paz prize and in 2003, the Cervantes prize for literature.His home had four or five different bedrooms. He didn't like to wake up in the same place every morning. One had a sexy bed with mirrors. He bought it in China and wrote about it in his poem Bed of Mirrors. This mirrored bed is symbolic of two dimensions of Rojas's work and life. On the one hand, that eroticism \u2013 together with love and death \u2013 was an important element in his poetry and in his life: the anthology What Do We Love When We Love gathers 41 of his erotic poems.On the other hand, there is China and politics. In 1959, Rojas visited the country and managed to meet, and talk, for an hour and a half with Mao Zedong. He told me they didn't talk about politics and that he was impressed with \"that colossal animal\". He especially remembered Mao's hands: \"thin, feminine\". He said it was because of that meeting that President Salvador Allende asked him to be cultural counsel in China, back in 1970 (Rojas never belonged to any political party, but he was leftwing).He was in China for a year and was sent to Cuba afterwards. Rojas was there at the time of the 1973 Chilean military coup. Because of his previous political work for Allende, Pinochet's dictatorship stripped him of his nationality, and he and his family had to find exile in East Germany and Venezuela. He went back to Chile in 1979 thanks to a Guggenheim fellowship, but found he was not able to work at all, and because he was banned from teaching at any Chilean university, he went to live in the US.Coming back to Chile once again in 1995, Rojas refused to live in the capital, Santiago He chose Chill\u00e1n, 400km to the south, which was the hometown of his second wife, Hilda May, and their son. Rojas himself was born in a southern small town called Lebu, into a coalmining family. He told me: \"They have asked me a thousand times, 'Why don't you go to live in Spain? You have a job there, they awarded you. Why don't you go to US? You have a house there.' No, I like it here, the people from the provinces, this simplicity.\"At the Chilean National Museum of Fine Arts in Santiago, Chileans have been holding a wake over the poet's body. He is being taken back to Chill\u00e1n, where he will be buried. The king of Spain, Juan Carlos, who is awarding the Cervantes prize to the Spanish writer Ana Mar\u00eda Matutes on Wednesday, remembered when he met Rojas for the same awards ceremony years ago: \"He liked to introduce himself as a coalminer's son, and to imagine Cervantes reading the world and rereading us.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Poetry", "Books", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Chile mourns for Gonzalo Rojas | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-06-22T14:32:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile's Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era government is facing hard times. In addition to citizen disapproval rates currently standing at 56%, he now has to contend with massive student protests of a scale not seen in Chile since the return of democracy in 1990. The latest large-scale protest brought together hundreds of thousands of people across the country, demanding better public education and social justice in one of the countries with, according to the Gini index, the highest inequality levels.The clearest reflection of this inequality in Chile can be seen in education. As a result of a series of neoliberal reforms, Chile has developed one of the world's most segregated education systems, with insufficient state participation. Public expenditure on education accounts for 4% of the gross domestic product, compared with 7% in developed countries. This has translated into a growing privatisation trend in education since the 1980s.Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship prioritised freedom of education over the right to education, opening up education to the market, as though it were a product to buy and sell. The Concertaci\u00f3n, a social democratic coalition that governed from 1990 to 2010, administered this model, introducing certain reforms that focused on access but neglected quality and equality. Today, only 10% of Chilean students access schools that will provide them with real opportunities for the future.Most students wander between precarious public schools and deficient subsidised or voucher schools. The university system was also reformed in the 1980s, allowing a proliferation of private universities (very few of which are decent) which, despite being classified as non-profit organisations, nevertheless yield juicy returns for their owners thanks to a series of subterfuges. The minister of education himself, Joaqu\u00edn Lav\u00edn, owned a university before taking office.By contrast, public universities have become increasingly weak and today are barely able to finance their most basic operations. For instance, the University of Chile, the country's main university and one of the best in Latin America, only receives 14% of its budget from the state. It has to be financed with degree fees, passing on the financial burden to its students. In fact, families finance 73% of higher education in Chile, a figure that greatly exceeds the average (16%) for OECD countries. This is one of the main demands of the students who are now taking to the streets. They carry enormous debts, which could reach $100,000 (\u00a362,000) within 20 years.The current education system is founded upon neoliberalism, privatisation, a climate of over-expectation and promises of social mobility. However, Chilean society is stratified, with a small group holding all the privileges. There is no real room for meritocracy or equal opportunities. For instance, the unemployment rate among young people (15.2%) is more than double the national average. Most young people are building up frustration by seeing how their hopes for the future clash with the sad reality.The first signs of this malaise appeared in 2006, when thousands of secondary school students took to the streets in what became known as the \"penguins' revolution\". They managed to overturn the LOCE, the organic law on education established by Pinochet's dictatorship, which was then replaced by the Ley General de Educaci\u00f3n (LGE) in an agreement signed by all political parties. However, the law failed to satisfy both students and teachers because, once again, no real reform of the public education system had been undertaken.Students and teachers understand that strengthening public education will greatly contribute to building a fairer society and a better democracy. The neoliberal reforms that promoted competition and privatisation have failed because they have been unable to bridge the existing social divides and have perpetuated privileges.Some say that the Chilean education system is not in crisis and resort to figures regarding access to argue their point. However, they say nothing of the inequality or the quality of the education. Luckily, students are mobilising to remind us that a better public education means a better country.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Students", "Education", "Protest", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Students march for a better Chile | Cristian Cabalin"},{"date": "2011-06-04T23:09:17Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Thousands of people have been evacuated from their homes after a volcano which has been dormant for decades started erupting in southern Chile.Large columns of smoke reached more than six miles from the crater of the Puyehue volcano, which lies about 500 miles south of the capital, Santiago.Winds fanned the ash towards neighbouring Argentina over the skies in the ski resort city of San Carlos de Bariloche, which caused the local airport to close.The governor of Chile's Los Rios region said fire could be seen in the volcano's crater and smoke was billowing into the sky.The eruption prompted authorities to shut a heavily travelled border crossing with Argentina, but there have been no reports of injuries.The Chilean government said it was evacuating 3,500 people from the surrounding area as a precaution.Authorities put the area around the volcano on alert after a flurry of earthquakes. The National Emergency Office says it has recorded an average of 230 tremors an hour.\"The Cordon Caulle (volcanic range) has entered an eruptive process, with an explosion resulting in a 10-kilometre-high gas column,\" state emergency office ONEMI said.The chain of Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanos \u2013 of which there are four \u2013 last saw a major eruption in 1960.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Puyehue volcano in Chile erupts, prompting mass evacuation"},{"date": "2011-06-01T18:29:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is to investigate whether Augusto Pinochet's regime murdered the Nobel prize-winning poet Pablo Neruda after it seized power in a bloody 1973 coup.A judge, Mario Carroza, will examine claims that agents injected poison into Neruda's stomach while he was treated in Santiago's Santa Maria clinic for prostate cancer, which until now was blamed for his heart failure.If confirmed the allegation would rank as one of the dictatorship's vilest murders given Neruda's status as a revered literary great at home and abroad.Chile's communist party demanded the investigation after the poet's former driver, Manuel Araya, said Pinochet henchmen injected the 69-year-old on the day he died, 23 September 1973, 12 days after the coup.Neruda, a communist and political activist, had just written an article excoriating the military regime and defending his friend Salvador Allende, the socialist president who died during the coup.Guillermo Teillier, president of the communist party, told the appellate court there was a moral requirement to clarify Neruda's cause of death. \"We are acting responsibly, reasonable doubts exist,\" he told journalists.The Neruda Foundation, which administers his estate, has rejected the murder theory and said the author of Twenty Poems of Love and a Song of Despair was gravely ill.The communist party said however that other Neruda staff had echoed the driver's suspicion and that Mexico's former ambassador to Chile, Gonzalo Mart\u00ednez Corbal\u00e1, apparently found Neruda in good form a day before his death.Six people, including Pinochet agents, allegedly poisoned a former president, Eduardo Frei, in the same clinic in 1981. They were charged last year in connection with his death.Neruda and Frei are among 725 possible murder cases from the \"dirty war\" now under investigation. Last month Allende's remains were exhumed for a forensic examination to determine if he really shot himself with an AK-47, the official version, as troops closed in on the palace.This week TVN, a state television channel, reported it had obtained a previously buried 300-page military review of Allende's death which suggested he was shot first in the face with a small-calibre weapon and that the AK-47 was fired after his death.", "tags": ["Augusto Pinochet", "World news", "Chile", "Americas", "Pablo Neruda"], "title": "Chile to investigate Pinochet regime role in Pablo Neruda murder"},{"date": "2011-04-27T16:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean poet Gonzalo Rojas died on Monday morning aged 93, and the government has declared two days of national mourning. I met him in 2006 when, as a young journalist, I wanted to interview one of the most important Chilean poets of the 20th century \u2013 with Nobel prizewinners Gabriela Mistral and Pablo Neruda under Chile's belt, we have high standards.Rojas received me in his house in Chill\u00e1n, a small city in the south of the country. The first thing I remember is his collection of 35,000 books. He told me he had read them all. He was not just a writer \u2013 he had also been a professor in the US, at Columbia and Chicago universities, as well as having taught in Germany, Venezuela, Spain, Mexico and, of course, his home country.His work has been translated into English, German, French, Portuguese, Russian, Italian, Rumanian, Swedish, Chinese, Turkish and Greek. He was awarded the Chilean national prize for literature, the Queen Sofia prize of Iberian American poetry, Mexico's Octavio Paz prize and in 2003, the Cervantes prize for literature.His home had four or five different bedrooms. He didn't like to wake up in the same place every morning. One had a sexy bed with mirrors. He bought it in China and wrote about it in his poem Bed of Mirrors. This mirrored bed is symbolic of two dimensions of Rojas's work and life. On the one hand, that eroticism \u2013 together with love and death \u2013 was an important element in his poetry and in his life: the anthology What Do We Love When We Love gathers 41 of his erotic poems.On the other hand, there is China and politics. In 1959, Rojas visited the country and managed to meet, and talk, for an hour and a half with Mao Zedong. He told me they didn't talk about politics and that he was impressed with \"that colossal animal\". He especially remembered Mao's hands: \"thin, feminine\". He said it was because of that meeting that President Salvador Allende asked him to be cultural counsel in China, back in 1970 (Rojas never belonged to any political party, but he was leftwing).He was in China for a year and was sent to Cuba afterwards. Rojas was there at the time of the 1973 Chilean military coup. Because of his previous political work for Allende, Pinochet's dictatorship stripped him of his nationality, and he and his family had to find exile in East Germany and Venezuela. He went back to Chile in 1979 thanks to a Guggenheim fellowship, but found he was not able to work at all, and because he was banned from teaching at any Chilean university, he went to live in the US.Coming back to Chile once again in 1995, Rojas refused to live in the capital, Santiago He chose Chill\u00e1n, 400km to the south, which was the hometown of his second wife, Hilda May, and their son. Rojas himself was born in a southern small town called Lebu, into a coalmining family. He told me: \"They have asked me a thousand times, 'Why don't you go to live in Spain? You have a job there, they awarded you. Why don't you go to US? You have a house there.' No, I like it here, the people from the provinces, this simplicity.\"At the Chilean National Museum of Fine Arts in Santiago, Chileans have been holding a wake over the poet's body. He is being taken back to Chill\u00e1n, where he will be buried. The king of Spain, Juan Carlos, who is awarding the Cervantes prize to the Spanish writer Ana Mar\u00eda Matutes on Wednesday, remembered when he met Rojas for the same awards ceremony years ago: \"He liked to introduce himself as a coalminer's son, and to imagine Cervantes reading the world and rereading us.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Poetry", "Books", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Chile mourns for Gonzalo Rojas | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-06-22T14:32:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile's Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era government is facing hard times. In addition to citizen disapproval rates currently standing at 56%, he now has to contend with massive student protests of a scale not seen in Chile since the return of democracy in 1990. The latest large-scale protest brought together hundreds of thousands of people across the country, demanding better public education and social justice in one of the countries with, according to the Gini index, the highest inequality levels.The clearest reflection of this inequality in Chile can be seen in education. As a result of a series of neoliberal reforms, Chile has developed one of the world's most segregated education systems, with insufficient state participation. Public expenditure on education accounts for 4% of the gross domestic product, compared with 7% in developed countries. This has translated into a growing privatisation trend in education since the 1980s.Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship prioritised freedom of education over the right to education, opening up education to the market, as though it were a product to buy and sell. The Concertaci\u00f3n, a social democratic coalition that governed from 1990 to 2010, administered this model, introducing certain reforms that focused on access but neglected quality and equality. Today, only 10% of Chilean students access schools that will provide them with real opportunities for the future.Most students wander between precarious public schools and deficient subsidised or voucher schools. The university system was also reformed in the 1980s, allowing a proliferation of private universities (very few of which are decent) which, despite being classified as non-profit organisations, nevertheless yield juicy returns for their owners thanks to a series of subterfuges. The minister of education himself, Joaqu\u00edn Lav\u00edn, owned a university before taking office.By contrast, public universities have become increasingly weak and today are barely able to finance their most basic operations. For instance, the University of Chile, the country's main university and one of the best in Latin America, only receives 14% of its budget from the state. It has to be financed with degree fees, passing on the financial burden to its students. In fact, families finance 73% of higher education in Chile, a figure that greatly exceeds the average (16%) for OECD countries. This is one of the main demands of the students who are now taking to the streets. They carry enormous debts, which could reach $100,000 (\u00a362,000) within 20 years.The current education system is founded upon neoliberalism, privatisation, a climate of over-expectation and promises of social mobility. However, Chilean society is stratified, with a small group holding all the privileges. There is no real room for meritocracy or equal opportunities. For instance, the unemployment rate among young people (15.2%) is more than double the national average. Most young people are building up frustration by seeing how their hopes for the future clash with the sad reality.The first signs of this malaise appeared in 2006, when thousands of secondary school students took to the streets in what became known as the \"penguins' revolution\". They managed to overturn the LOCE, the organic law on education established by Pinochet's dictatorship, which was then replaced by the Ley General de Educaci\u00f3n (LGE) in an agreement signed by all political parties. However, the law failed to satisfy both students and teachers because, once again, no real reform of the public education system had been undertaken.Students and teachers understand that strengthening public education will greatly contribute to building a fairer society and a better democracy. The neoliberal reforms that promoted competition and privatisation have failed because they have been unable to bridge the existing social divides and have perpetuated privileges.Some say that the Chilean education system is not in crisis and resort to figures regarding access to argue their point. However, they say nothing of the inequality or the quality of the education. Luckily, students are mobilising to remind us that a better public education means a better country.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Students", "Education", "Protest", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Students march for a better Chile | Cristian Cabalin"},{"date": "2011-06-04T23:09:17Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Thousands of people have been evacuated from their homes after a volcano which has been dormant for decades started erupting in southern Chile.Large columns of smoke reached more than six miles from the crater of the Puyehue volcano, which lies about 500 miles south of the capital, Santiago.Winds fanned the ash towards neighbouring Argentina over the skies in the ski resort city of San Carlos de Bariloche, which caused the local airport to close.The governor of Chile's Los Rios region said fire could be seen in the volcano's crater and smoke was billowing into the sky.The eruption prompted authorities to shut a heavily travelled border crossing with Argentina, but there have been no reports of injuries.The Chilean government said it was evacuating 3,500 people from the surrounding area as a precaution.Authorities put the area around the volcano on alert after a flurry of earthquakes. The National Emergency Office says it has recorded an average of 230 tremors an hour.\"The Cordon Caulle (volcanic range) has entered an eruptive process, with an explosion resulting in a 10-kilometre-high gas column,\" state emergency office ONEMI said.The chain of Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanos \u2013 of which there are four \u2013 last saw a major eruption in 1960.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Puyehue volcano in Chile erupts, prompting mass evacuation"},{"date": "2011-06-01T18:29:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is to investigate whether Augusto Pinochet's regime murdered the Nobel prize-winning poet Pablo Neruda after it seized power in a bloody 1973 coup.A judge, Mario Carroza, will examine claims that agents injected poison into Neruda's stomach while he was treated in Santiago's Santa Maria clinic for prostate cancer, which until now was blamed for his heart failure.If confirmed the allegation would rank as one of the dictatorship's vilest murders given Neruda's status as a revered literary great at home and abroad.Chile's communist party demanded the investigation after the poet's former driver, Manuel Araya, said Pinochet henchmen injected the 69-year-old on the day he died, 23 September 1973, 12 days after the coup.Neruda, a communist and political activist, had just written an article excoriating the military regime and defending his friend Salvador Allende, the socialist president who died during the coup.Guillermo Teillier, president of the communist party, told the appellate court there was a moral requirement to clarify Neruda's cause of death. \"We are acting responsibly, reasonable doubts exist,\" he told journalists.The Neruda Foundation, which administers his estate, has rejected the murder theory and said the author of Twenty Poems of Love and a Song of Despair was gravely ill.The communist party said however that other Neruda staff had echoed the driver's suspicion and that Mexico's former ambassador to Chile, Gonzalo Mart\u00ednez Corbal\u00e1, apparently found Neruda in good form a day before his death.Six people, including Pinochet agents, allegedly poisoned a former president, Eduardo Frei, in the same clinic in 1981. They were charged last year in connection with his death.Neruda and Frei are among 725 possible murder cases from the \"dirty war\" now under investigation. Last month Allende's remains were exhumed for a forensic examination to determine if he really shot himself with an AK-47, the official version, as troops closed in on the palace.This week TVN, a state television channel, reported it had obtained a previously buried 300-page military review of Allende's death which suggested he was shot first in the face with a small-calibre weapon and that the AK-47 was fired after his death.", "tags": ["Augusto Pinochet", "World news", "Chile", "Americas", "Pablo Neruda"], "title": "Chile to investigate Pinochet regime role in Pablo Neruda murder"},{"date": "2011-05-10T09:36:36Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A $7bn (\u00a34.2bn) project to dam two of the world's wildest rivers for electricity won environmental approval on Monday from a Chilean government commission, despite a groundswell of opposition.The commissioners \u2013 all political appointees in President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's government \u2013 concluded a three-year environmental review by approving five dams on the Baker and Pascua rivers in Aysen, a mostly roadless region of remote southern Patagonia where rainfall is nearly constant and rivers plunge from Andean glaciers to the Pacific Ocean through green valleys and fjords.Monday's vote \u2013 11 in favour and one abstention \u2013 could prove to be pivotal for the future of Chile, which has a booming economy, vast mineral wealth and a determination to join the elite group of first-world nations.With its energy-intensive mining industry clamoring for more power and living standards improving, some analysts say Chile must triple its capacity in just 15 years, despite having no domestic oil or natural gas. Chile imports 97% of its fossil fuels and depends largely on hydropower for electricity, creating a crisis when droughts drain reservoirs or faraway disputes affect energy imports.Supporters say the economic benefits of the dam project justify carving roads through the heart of Chile's remaining wilderness and running 1,000 miles (1,600 kilometres) of transmission lines to power the capital, Santiago.The dams together could generate 2.75 gigawatts, nearly a third of central Chile's current capacity, within 12 years. The Aysen region will receive less expensive energy, jobs, scholarships and $350m in infrastructure, including seaports and airports, said HidroAysen's executive vice president, Daniel Fernandez.But people in the sparsely populated area are divided. Only three dozen families would be relocated, but the dams would drown 14,000 acres (5,700 hectares), require carving clear-cuts through forests, and eliminate whitewater rapids and waterfalls that attract ecotourism. They also would destroy habitat for the endangered Southern Huemul deer: Fewer than 1,000 of the diminutive animals, a national symbol, are believed to exist.\"They are all sell-outs,\" rancher Elisabeth \"Lilli\" Schindele said of the commissioners.She lives with her husband and two young children in the Nadis, a sector that would be inundated. Their neighbours have agreed to relocation, but she doesn't want to leave the 1,235 acres (500 hectares) where they raise cattle and sheep.\"There is no land like ours,\" she told told the Associated Press.Robert F Kennedy Jr, a lawyer for the US-based Natural Resources Defense Council, appealed to Pinera to call off the project.\"It's the most beautiful place, I believe, on the planet,\" said Kennedy, who kayaks there every year. \"I don't know any place like Patagonia.\"Investors have spent $220m on the project so far, but opposition has grown to 61% of Chileans according to the latest Ipsos Public Affairs poll, and the government is concerned about a backlash.More than 1,000 people gathered outside the hearing in the regional hub of Coyhaique, chanting and carrying signs. Some threw rocks at the cars of commissioners, and clashed afterward with hundreds of police, who responded with a water cannon and tear gas. Several protesters were bloodied in the melee, and the commissioners were kept inside for their safety.In downtown Santiago, several thousand people blocking a main avenue in protest also encountered tear gas and police water cannons.The mining and energy minister, Laurence Golborne, had urged opponents to turn to the courts, and they did vow to appeal.\"We're going to keep fighting until this project is unviable,\" said Patricio Rodrigo, a spokesman for the Patagonia Without Dams coalition. \"This project robs us of our sovereignty.\"But the interior minister, Rodrigo Hinzpeter, who sent police to contain the protests, said that \"the most important thing is that our country needs to grow, to progress, and for this we need energy.\"Chile's decision has lessons for a world confronting a future without inexpensive fossil fuels and questioning nuclear safety. The country has abundant renewable-energy potential, from dams on its many rivers to year-round sun in its northern deserts, wind along its long Pacific coast, numerous geothermal sites and biomass from its large agricultural industry.But Chile gets less than 5% of its electricity from renewable sources other than hydroelectricity, has done little to encourage efficiency, and lacks a strategy for securing future supplies, although a government commission will make such recommendations by September.", "tags": ["Wave and tidal power", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Rivers", "Water", "Environment", "Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile approves $7bn hydroelectric dam in Patagonian wilderness"},{"date": "2011-04-27T16:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean poet Gonzalo Rojas died on Monday morning aged 93, and the government has declared two days of national mourning. I met him in 2006 when, as a young journalist, I wanted to interview one of the most important Chilean poets of the 20th century \u2013 with Nobel prizewinners Gabriela Mistral and Pablo Neruda under Chile's belt, we have high standards.Rojas received me in his house in Chill\u00e1n, a small city in the south of the country. The first thing I remember is his collection of 35,000 books. He told me he had read them all. He was not just a writer \u2013 he had also been a professor in the US, at Columbia and Chicago universities, as well as having taught in Germany, Venezuela, Spain, Mexico and, of course, his home country.His work has been translated into English, German, French, Portuguese, Russian, Italian, Rumanian, Swedish, Chinese, Turkish and Greek. He was awarded the Chilean national prize for literature, the Queen Sofia prize of Iberian American poetry, Mexico's Octavio Paz prize and in 2003, the Cervantes prize for literature.His home had four or five different bedrooms. He didn't like to wake up in the same place every morning. One had a sexy bed with mirrors. He bought it in China and wrote about it in his poem Bed of Mirrors. This mirrored bed is symbolic of two dimensions of Rojas's work and life. On the one hand, that eroticism \u2013 together with love and death \u2013 was an important element in his poetry and in his life: the anthology What Do We Love When We Love gathers 41 of his erotic poems.On the other hand, there is China and politics. In 1959, Rojas visited the country and managed to meet, and talk, for an hour and a half with Mao Zedong. He told me they didn't talk about politics and that he was impressed with \"that colossal animal\". He especially remembered Mao's hands: \"thin, feminine\". He said it was because of that meeting that President Salvador Allende asked him to be cultural counsel in China, back in 1970 (Rojas never belonged to any political party, but he was leftwing).He was in China for a year and was sent to Cuba afterwards. Rojas was there at the time of the 1973 Chilean military coup. Because of his previous political work for Allende, Pinochet's dictatorship stripped him of his nationality, and he and his family had to find exile in East Germany and Venezuela. He went back to Chile in 1979 thanks to a Guggenheim fellowship, but found he was not able to work at all, and because he was banned from teaching at any Chilean university, he went to live in the US.Coming back to Chile once again in 1995, Rojas refused to live in the capital, Santiago He chose Chill\u00e1n, 400km to the south, which was the hometown of his second wife, Hilda May, and their son. Rojas himself was born in a southern small town called Lebu, into a coalmining family. He told me: \"They have asked me a thousand times, 'Why don't you go to live in Spain? You have a job there, they awarded you. Why don't you go to US? You have a house there.' No, I like it here, the people from the provinces, this simplicity.\"At the Chilean National Museum of Fine Arts in Santiago, Chileans have been holding a wake over the poet's body. He is being taken back to Chill\u00e1n, where he will be buried. The king of Spain, Juan Carlos, who is awarding the Cervantes prize to the Spanish writer Ana Mar\u00eda Matutes on Wednesday, remembered when he met Rojas for the same awards ceremony years ago: \"He liked to introduce himself as a coalminer's son, and to imagine Cervantes reading the world and rereading us.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Poetry", "Books", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Chile mourns for Gonzalo Rojas | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-06-22T14:32:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile's Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era government is facing hard times. In addition to citizen disapproval rates currently standing at 56%, he now has to contend with massive student protests of a scale not seen in Chile since the return of democracy in 1990. The latest large-scale protest brought together hundreds of thousands of people across the country, demanding better public education and social justice in one of the countries with, according to the Gini index, the highest inequality levels.The clearest reflection of this inequality in Chile can be seen in education. As a result of a series of neoliberal reforms, Chile has developed one of the world's most segregated education systems, with insufficient state participation. Public expenditure on education accounts for 4% of the gross domestic product, compared with 7% in developed countries. This has translated into a growing privatisation trend in education since the 1980s.Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship prioritised freedom of education over the right to education, opening up education to the market, as though it were a product to buy and sell. The Concertaci\u00f3n, a social democratic coalition that governed from 1990 to 2010, administered this model, introducing certain reforms that focused on access but neglected quality and equality. Today, only 10% of Chilean students access schools that will provide them with real opportunities for the future.Most students wander between precarious public schools and deficient subsidised or voucher schools. The university system was also reformed in the 1980s, allowing a proliferation of private universities (very few of which are decent) which, despite being classified as non-profit organisations, nevertheless yield juicy returns for their owners thanks to a series of subterfuges. The minister of education himself, Joaqu\u00edn Lav\u00edn, owned a university before taking office.By contrast, public universities have become increasingly weak and today are barely able to finance their most basic operations. For instance, the University of Chile, the country's main university and one of the best in Latin America, only receives 14% of its budget from the state. It has to be financed with degree fees, passing on the financial burden to its students. In fact, families finance 73% of higher education in Chile, a figure that greatly exceeds the average (16%) for OECD countries. This is one of the main demands of the students who are now taking to the streets. They carry enormous debts, which could reach $100,000 (\u00a362,000) within 20 years.The current education system is founded upon neoliberalism, privatisation, a climate of over-expectation and promises of social mobility. However, Chilean society is stratified, with a small group holding all the privileges. There is no real room for meritocracy or equal opportunities. For instance, the unemployment rate among young people (15.2%) is more than double the national average. Most young people are building up frustration by seeing how their hopes for the future clash with the sad reality.The first signs of this malaise appeared in 2006, when thousands of secondary school students took to the streets in what became known as the \"penguins' revolution\". They managed to overturn the LOCE, the organic law on education established by Pinochet's dictatorship, which was then replaced by the Ley General de Educaci\u00f3n (LGE) in an agreement signed by all political parties. However, the law failed to satisfy both students and teachers because, once again, no real reform of the public education system had been undertaken.Students and teachers understand that strengthening public education will greatly contribute to building a fairer society and a better democracy. The neoliberal reforms that promoted competition and privatisation have failed because they have been unable to bridge the existing social divides and have perpetuated privileges.Some say that the Chilean education system is not in crisis and resort to figures regarding access to argue their point. However, they say nothing of the inequality or the quality of the education. Luckily, students are mobilising to remind us that a better public education means a better country.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Students", "Education", "Protest", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Students march for a better Chile | Cristian Cabalin"},{"date": "2011-06-04T23:09:17Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Thousands of people have been evacuated from their homes after a volcano which has been dormant for decades started erupting in southern Chile.Large columns of smoke reached more than six miles from the crater of the Puyehue volcano, which lies about 500 miles south of the capital, Santiago.Winds fanned the ash towards neighbouring Argentina over the skies in the ski resort city of San Carlos de Bariloche, which caused the local airport to close.The governor of Chile's Los Rios region said fire could be seen in the volcano's crater and smoke was billowing into the sky.The eruption prompted authorities to shut a heavily travelled border crossing with Argentina, but there have been no reports of injuries.The Chilean government said it was evacuating 3,500 people from the surrounding area as a precaution.Authorities put the area around the volcano on alert after a flurry of earthquakes. The National Emergency Office says it has recorded an average of 230 tremors an hour.\"The Cordon Caulle (volcanic range) has entered an eruptive process, with an explosion resulting in a 10-kilometre-high gas column,\" state emergency office ONEMI said.The chain of Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanos \u2013 of which there are four \u2013 last saw a major eruption in 1960.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Puyehue volcano in Chile erupts, prompting mass evacuation"},{"date": "2011-06-01T18:29:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is to investigate whether Augusto Pinochet's regime murdered the Nobel prize-winning poet Pablo Neruda after it seized power in a bloody 1973 coup.A judge, Mario Carroza, will examine claims that agents injected poison into Neruda's stomach while he was treated in Santiago's Santa Maria clinic for prostate cancer, which until now was blamed for his heart failure.If confirmed the allegation would rank as one of the dictatorship's vilest murders given Neruda's status as a revered literary great at home and abroad.Chile's communist party demanded the investigation after the poet's former driver, Manuel Araya, said Pinochet henchmen injected the 69-year-old on the day he died, 23 September 1973, 12 days after the coup.Neruda, a communist and political activist, had just written an article excoriating the military regime and defending his friend Salvador Allende, the socialist president who died during the coup.Guillermo Teillier, president of the communist party, told the appellate court there was a moral requirement to clarify Neruda's cause of death. \"We are acting responsibly, reasonable doubts exist,\" he told journalists.The Neruda Foundation, which administers his estate, has rejected the murder theory and said the author of Twenty Poems of Love and a Song of Despair was gravely ill.The communist party said however that other Neruda staff had echoed the driver's suspicion and that Mexico's former ambassador to Chile, Gonzalo Mart\u00ednez Corbal\u00e1, apparently found Neruda in good form a day before his death.Six people, including Pinochet agents, allegedly poisoned a former president, Eduardo Frei, in the same clinic in 1981. They were charged last year in connection with his death.Neruda and Frei are among 725 possible murder cases from the \"dirty war\" now under investigation. Last month Allende's remains were exhumed for a forensic examination to determine if he really shot himself with an AK-47, the official version, as troops closed in on the palace.This week TVN, a state television channel, reported it had obtained a previously buried 300-page military review of Allende's death which suggested he was shot first in the face with a small-calibre weapon and that the AK-47 was fired after his death.", "tags": ["Augusto Pinochet", "World news", "Chile", "Americas", "Pablo Neruda"], "title": "Chile to investigate Pinochet regime role in Pablo Neruda murder"},{"date": "2011-05-10T09:36:36Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A $7bn (\u00a34.2bn) project to dam two of the world's wildest rivers for electricity won environmental approval on Monday from a Chilean government commission, despite a groundswell of opposition.The commissioners \u2013 all political appointees in President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's government \u2013 concluded a three-year environmental review by approving five dams on the Baker and Pascua rivers in Aysen, a mostly roadless region of remote southern Patagonia where rainfall is nearly constant and rivers plunge from Andean glaciers to the Pacific Ocean through green valleys and fjords.Monday's vote \u2013 11 in favour and one abstention \u2013 could prove to be pivotal for the future of Chile, which has a booming economy, vast mineral wealth and a determination to join the elite group of first-world nations.With its energy-intensive mining industry clamoring for more power and living standards improving, some analysts say Chile must triple its capacity in just 15 years, despite having no domestic oil or natural gas. Chile imports 97% of its fossil fuels and depends largely on hydropower for electricity, creating a crisis when droughts drain reservoirs or faraway disputes affect energy imports.Supporters say the economic benefits of the dam project justify carving roads through the heart of Chile's remaining wilderness and running 1,000 miles (1,600 kilometres) of transmission lines to power the capital, Santiago.The dams together could generate 2.75 gigawatts, nearly a third of central Chile's current capacity, within 12 years. The Aysen region will receive less expensive energy, jobs, scholarships and $350m in infrastructure, including seaports and airports, said HidroAysen's executive vice president, Daniel Fernandez.But people in the sparsely populated area are divided. Only three dozen families would be relocated, but the dams would drown 14,000 acres (5,700 hectares), require carving clear-cuts through forests, and eliminate whitewater rapids and waterfalls that attract ecotourism. They also would destroy habitat for the endangered Southern Huemul deer: Fewer than 1,000 of the diminutive animals, a national symbol, are believed to exist.\"They are all sell-outs,\" rancher Elisabeth \"Lilli\" Schindele said of the commissioners.She lives with her husband and two young children in the Nadis, a sector that would be inundated. Their neighbours have agreed to relocation, but she doesn't want to leave the 1,235 acres (500 hectares) where they raise cattle and sheep.\"There is no land like ours,\" she told told the Associated Press.Robert F Kennedy Jr, a lawyer for the US-based Natural Resources Defense Council, appealed to Pinera to call off the project.\"It's the most beautiful place, I believe, on the planet,\" said Kennedy, who kayaks there every year. \"I don't know any place like Patagonia.\"Investors have spent $220m on the project so far, but opposition has grown to 61% of Chileans according to the latest Ipsos Public Affairs poll, and the government is concerned about a backlash.More than 1,000 people gathered outside the hearing in the regional hub of Coyhaique, chanting and carrying signs. Some threw rocks at the cars of commissioners, and clashed afterward with hundreds of police, who responded with a water cannon and tear gas. Several protesters were bloodied in the melee, and the commissioners were kept inside for their safety.In downtown Santiago, several thousand people blocking a main avenue in protest also encountered tear gas and police water cannons.The mining and energy minister, Laurence Golborne, had urged opponents to turn to the courts, and they did vow to appeal.\"We're going to keep fighting until this project is unviable,\" said Patricio Rodrigo, a spokesman for the Patagonia Without Dams coalition. \"This project robs us of our sovereignty.\"But the interior minister, Rodrigo Hinzpeter, who sent police to contain the protests, said that \"the most important thing is that our country needs to grow, to progress, and for this we need energy.\"Chile's decision has lessons for a world confronting a future without inexpensive fossil fuels and questioning nuclear safety. The country has abundant renewable-energy potential, from dams on its many rivers to year-round sun in its northern deserts, wind along its long Pacific coast, numerous geothermal sites and biomass from its large agricultural industry.But Chile gets less than 5% of its electricity from renewable sources other than hydroelectricity, has done little to encourage efficiency, and lacks a strategy for securing future supplies, although a government commission will make such recommendations by September.", "tags": ["Wave and tidal power", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Rivers", "Water", "Environment", "Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile approves $7bn hydroelectric dam in Patagonian wilderness"},{"date": "2011-05-12T15:46:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A massive hydroelectric project was approved last Monday in Chile after three years of evaluations and big controversy. The project involves the construction of five hydroelectric power stations in two of the most untouched and wildest rivers in the world \u2013 the Baker and the Pascua rivers.HidroAys\u00e9n project will dam around 6,000 hectares in the remote southern Chilean Patagonia. This will have a deep environmental impact in a place as pure as that. The Ays\u00e9n region is the less populated region in the country and is famous for its beauty and isolation. An interesting ecotourism industry has been developing in the area lately, which would be damaged by the dams. The project also includes the construction of a transmission line from Ays\u00e9n region, all the way to the capital Santiago. This will mean power cables and 5,000 towers of 50 meters tall, one every 400 meters, along 2,200km. The effect will be the deforestation of 23,000 hectares, and six national parks as well as 11 national reserves will be damaged. The visual impact would be massive.The social impact would last for years, bringing thousands of people to live and work in Patagonia. In 2007 I lived in Chile Chico, a small city in Ays\u00e9n region, and know how apprehensive and reluctant Patagonia residents are when it comes to admit new people or big changes into their lives. Most of the families there arrived in Patagonia many years ago, when there were no even paths, let alone roads. They built their lives without any help in those unexplored areas. The Chilean Patagonia without Dams group, which gathers 79 national and international groups \u2013 from Greenpeace to Ays\u00e9n's bishopric \u2013 has displayed a strong campaign.HidroAys\u00e9n is a corporation formed by Endesa Chile, subsidiary of the Spanish-Italian Endesea and Colb\u00fan SA, which belongs to Matte group, owner of one of the biggest fortunes in the country. Together, these two companies control 74% of the Central Interconnected System (SIC). With HidroAys\u00e9's approval, this will grow to 80%. A virtual monopoly of private companies operates this strategic industry. Energy in Chile is some of the most expensive in the world and HidroAys\u00e9n won't change that.People who support HidroAys\u00e9n say it is necessary to fulfil Chile's growing energy requirements. Indeed, it will generate 2,750MW of electricity \u2013 but none of them will be used in Patagonia. The transmission line will take all that energy to Santiago to be used by the SIC, which provides energy for 90% of the Chilean population. The country imports 97% of its fossil fuels and depends largely on hydropower for electricity. It has been said that if Chile wants to keep growing it has to duplicate its energy grid during the next 10 years, and that HidroAys\u00e9n would be essential for that \u2013 although there are studies that say the opposite. Beyond the environmental and social impacts that this specific project may cause, the problem that underlines is the lack of a coherent and sustainable long-term energy policy in the country.Besides HidroAys\u00e9n, this year rightwing president Sebastian Pi\u00f1era approved the construction of three very pollutant coal thermoelectric plants, one of which will be the biggest in Latin America. Thankfully, after Japan's earthquake, it seems that nuclear energy is out of the picture. Chile is as seismic as Japan and we had an 8.8 earthquake followed by a tsunami in February last year.Previous leftwing coalition governments did no better. They never opposed HidroAys\u00e9n and former president Eduardo Frei approved the construction of Ralco central on B\u00edo-B\u00edo river. This destroyed the indigenous community of Pehuenches that used to live there; the former cemetery flooded and the bones of their ancestors floating will be an image hard to forget.It is difficult to understand why this social and environmental destruction happens in a country that has such big potential for non-traditional renewable energy sources \u2013 such as solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and tidal \u2013 that could diversify energy production and make it more sustainable. According to the UN, these energies could fulfil almost 80% of the world's energy demand by 2050. Only about 3% of Chile's energy is produced by these means.After HidroAys\u00e9n's approval was announced, thousands of people protested on the streets and were violently suppressed by the police. Twitter and Facebook showed signs of big discontent and HidroAys\u00e9n's website was hacked yesterday. People are calling for massive demos as well. In the meantime, HidroAys\u00e9n's opponents will have recourse to justice to stop the project. I sincerely wish them luck.", "tags": ["Chile", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "World news", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Chile dams will bring social and environmental destruction | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-04-27T16:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean poet Gonzalo Rojas died on Monday morning aged 93, and the government has declared two days of national mourning. I met him in 2006 when, as a young journalist, I wanted to interview one of the most important Chilean poets of the 20th century \u2013 with Nobel prizewinners Gabriela Mistral and Pablo Neruda under Chile's belt, we have high standards.Rojas received me in his house in Chill\u00e1n, a small city in the south of the country. The first thing I remember is his collection of 35,000 books. He told me he had read them all. He was not just a writer \u2013 he had also been a professor in the US, at Columbia and Chicago universities, as well as having taught in Germany, Venezuela, Spain, Mexico and, of course, his home country.His work has been translated into English, German, French, Portuguese, Russian, Italian, Rumanian, Swedish, Chinese, Turkish and Greek. He was awarded the Chilean national prize for literature, the Queen Sofia prize of Iberian American poetry, Mexico's Octavio Paz prize and in 2003, the Cervantes prize for literature.His home had four or five different bedrooms. He didn't like to wake up in the same place every morning. One had a sexy bed with mirrors. He bought it in China and wrote about it in his poem Bed of Mirrors. This mirrored bed is symbolic of two dimensions of Rojas's work and life. On the one hand, that eroticism \u2013 together with love and death \u2013 was an important element in his poetry and in his life: the anthology What Do We Love When We Love gathers 41 of his erotic poems.On the other hand, there is China and politics. In 1959, Rojas visited the country and managed to meet, and talk, for an hour and a half with Mao Zedong. He told me they didn't talk about politics and that he was impressed with \"that colossal animal\". He especially remembered Mao's hands: \"thin, feminine\". He said it was because of that meeting that President Salvador Allende asked him to be cultural counsel in China, back in 1970 (Rojas never belonged to any political party, but he was leftwing).He was in China for a year and was sent to Cuba afterwards. Rojas was there at the time of the 1973 Chilean military coup. Because of his previous political work for Allende, Pinochet's dictatorship stripped him of his nationality, and he and his family had to find exile in East Germany and Venezuela. He went back to Chile in 1979 thanks to a Guggenheim fellowship, but found he was not able to work at all, and because he was banned from teaching at any Chilean university, he went to live in the US.Coming back to Chile once again in 1995, Rojas refused to live in the capital, Santiago He chose Chill\u00e1n, 400km to the south, which was the hometown of his second wife, Hilda May, and their son. Rojas himself was born in a southern small town called Lebu, into a coalmining family. He told me: \"They have asked me a thousand times, 'Why don't you go to live in Spain? You have a job there, they awarded you. Why don't you go to US? You have a house there.' No, I like it here, the people from the provinces, this simplicity.\"At the Chilean National Museum of Fine Arts in Santiago, Chileans have been holding a wake over the poet's body. He is being taken back to Chill\u00e1n, where he will be buried. The king of Spain, Juan Carlos, who is awarding the Cervantes prize to the Spanish writer Ana Mar\u00eda Matutes on Wednesday, remembered when he met Rojas for the same awards ceremony years ago: \"He liked to introduce himself as a coalminer's son, and to imagine Cervantes reading the world and rereading us.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Poetry", "Books", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Chile mourns for Gonzalo Rojas | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-06-22T14:32:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile's Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era government is facing hard times. In addition to citizen disapproval rates currently standing at 56%, he now has to contend with massive student protests of a scale not seen in Chile since the return of democracy in 1990. The latest large-scale protest brought together hundreds of thousands of people across the country, demanding better public education and social justice in one of the countries with, according to the Gini index, the highest inequality levels.The clearest reflection of this inequality in Chile can be seen in education. As a result of a series of neoliberal reforms, Chile has developed one of the world's most segregated education systems, with insufficient state participation. Public expenditure on education accounts for 4% of the gross domestic product, compared with 7% in developed countries. This has translated into a growing privatisation trend in education since the 1980s.Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship prioritised freedom of education over the right to education, opening up education to the market, as though it were a product to buy and sell. The Concertaci\u00f3n, a social democratic coalition that governed from 1990 to 2010, administered this model, introducing certain reforms that focused on access but neglected quality and equality. Today, only 10% of Chilean students access schools that will provide them with real opportunities for the future.Most students wander between precarious public schools and deficient subsidised or voucher schools. The university system was also reformed in the 1980s, allowing a proliferation of private universities (very few of which are decent) which, despite being classified as non-profit organisations, nevertheless yield juicy returns for their owners thanks to a series of subterfuges. The minister of education himself, Joaqu\u00edn Lav\u00edn, owned a university before taking office.By contrast, public universities have become increasingly weak and today are barely able to finance their most basic operations. For instance, the University of Chile, the country's main university and one of the best in Latin America, only receives 14% of its budget from the state. It has to be financed with degree fees, passing on the financial burden to its students. In fact, families finance 73% of higher education in Chile, a figure that greatly exceeds the average (16%) for OECD countries. This is one of the main demands of the students who are now taking to the streets. They carry enormous debts, which could reach $100,000 (\u00a362,000) within 20 years.The current education system is founded upon neoliberalism, privatisation, a climate of over-expectation and promises of social mobility. However, Chilean society is stratified, with a small group holding all the privileges. There is no real room for meritocracy or equal opportunities. For instance, the unemployment rate among young people (15.2%) is more than double the national average. Most young people are building up frustration by seeing how their hopes for the future clash with the sad reality.The first signs of this malaise appeared in 2006, when thousands of secondary school students took to the streets in what became known as the \"penguins' revolution\". They managed to overturn the LOCE, the organic law on education established by Pinochet's dictatorship, which was then replaced by the Ley General de Educaci\u00f3n (LGE) in an agreement signed by all political parties. However, the law failed to satisfy both students and teachers because, once again, no real reform of the public education system had been undertaken.Students and teachers understand that strengthening public education will greatly contribute to building a fairer society and a better democracy. The neoliberal reforms that promoted competition and privatisation have failed because they have been unable to bridge the existing social divides and have perpetuated privileges.Some say that the Chilean education system is not in crisis and resort to figures regarding access to argue their point. However, they say nothing of the inequality or the quality of the education. Luckily, students are mobilising to remind us that a better public education means a better country.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Students", "Education", "Protest", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Students march for a better Chile | Cristian Cabalin"},{"date": "2011-06-04T23:09:17Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Thousands of people have been evacuated from their homes after a volcano which has been dormant for decades started erupting in southern Chile.Large columns of smoke reached more than six miles from the crater of the Puyehue volcano, which lies about 500 miles south of the capital, Santiago.Winds fanned the ash towards neighbouring Argentina over the skies in the ski resort city of San Carlos de Bariloche, which caused the local airport to close.The governor of Chile's Los Rios region said fire could be seen in the volcano's crater and smoke was billowing into the sky.The eruption prompted authorities to shut a heavily travelled border crossing with Argentina, but there have been no reports of injuries.The Chilean government said it was evacuating 3,500 people from the surrounding area as a precaution.Authorities put the area around the volcano on alert after a flurry of earthquakes. The National Emergency Office says it has recorded an average of 230 tremors an hour.\"The Cordon Caulle (volcanic range) has entered an eruptive process, with an explosion resulting in a 10-kilometre-high gas column,\" state emergency office ONEMI said.The chain of Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanos \u2013 of which there are four \u2013 last saw a major eruption in 1960.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Puyehue volcano in Chile erupts, prompting mass evacuation"},{"date": "2011-06-01T18:29:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is to investigate whether Augusto Pinochet's regime murdered the Nobel prize-winning poet Pablo Neruda after it seized power in a bloody 1973 coup.A judge, Mario Carroza, will examine claims that agents injected poison into Neruda's stomach while he was treated in Santiago's Santa Maria clinic for prostate cancer, which until now was blamed for his heart failure.If confirmed the allegation would rank as one of the dictatorship's vilest murders given Neruda's status as a revered literary great at home and abroad.Chile's communist party demanded the investigation after the poet's former driver, Manuel Araya, said Pinochet henchmen injected the 69-year-old on the day he died, 23 September 1973, 12 days after the coup.Neruda, a communist and political activist, had just written an article excoriating the military regime and defending his friend Salvador Allende, the socialist president who died during the coup.Guillermo Teillier, president of the communist party, told the appellate court there was a moral requirement to clarify Neruda's cause of death. \"We are acting responsibly, reasonable doubts exist,\" he told journalists.The Neruda Foundation, which administers his estate, has rejected the murder theory and said the author of Twenty Poems of Love and a Song of Despair was gravely ill.The communist party said however that other Neruda staff had echoed the driver's suspicion and that Mexico's former ambassador to Chile, Gonzalo Mart\u00ednez Corbal\u00e1, apparently found Neruda in good form a day before his death.Six people, including Pinochet agents, allegedly poisoned a former president, Eduardo Frei, in the same clinic in 1981. They were charged last year in connection with his death.Neruda and Frei are among 725 possible murder cases from the \"dirty war\" now under investigation. Last month Allende's remains were exhumed for a forensic examination to determine if he really shot himself with an AK-47, the official version, as troops closed in on the palace.This week TVN, a state television channel, reported it had obtained a previously buried 300-page military review of Allende's death which suggested he was shot first in the face with a small-calibre weapon and that the AK-47 was fired after his death.", "tags": ["Augusto Pinochet", "World news", "Chile", "Americas", "Pablo Neruda"], "title": "Chile to investigate Pinochet regime role in Pablo Neruda murder"},{"date": "2011-05-10T09:36:36Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A $7bn (\u00a34.2bn) project to dam two of the world's wildest rivers for electricity won environmental approval on Monday from a Chilean government commission, despite a groundswell of opposition.The commissioners \u2013 all political appointees in President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's government \u2013 concluded a three-year environmental review by approving five dams on the Baker and Pascua rivers in Aysen, a mostly roadless region of remote southern Patagonia where rainfall is nearly constant and rivers plunge from Andean glaciers to the Pacific Ocean through green valleys and fjords.Monday's vote \u2013 11 in favour and one abstention \u2013 could prove to be pivotal for the future of Chile, which has a booming economy, vast mineral wealth and a determination to join the elite group of first-world nations.With its energy-intensive mining industry clamoring for more power and living standards improving, some analysts say Chile must triple its capacity in just 15 years, despite having no domestic oil or natural gas. Chile imports 97% of its fossil fuels and depends largely on hydropower for electricity, creating a crisis when droughts drain reservoirs or faraway disputes affect energy imports.Supporters say the economic benefits of the dam project justify carving roads through the heart of Chile's remaining wilderness and running 1,000 miles (1,600 kilometres) of transmission lines to power the capital, Santiago.The dams together could generate 2.75 gigawatts, nearly a third of central Chile's current capacity, within 12 years. The Aysen region will receive less expensive energy, jobs, scholarships and $350m in infrastructure, including seaports and airports, said HidroAysen's executive vice president, Daniel Fernandez.But people in the sparsely populated area are divided. Only three dozen families would be relocated, but the dams would drown 14,000 acres (5,700 hectares), require carving clear-cuts through forests, and eliminate whitewater rapids and waterfalls that attract ecotourism. They also would destroy habitat for the endangered Southern Huemul deer: Fewer than 1,000 of the diminutive animals, a national symbol, are believed to exist.\"They are all sell-outs,\" rancher Elisabeth \"Lilli\" Schindele said of the commissioners.She lives with her husband and two young children in the Nadis, a sector that would be inundated. Their neighbours have agreed to relocation, but she doesn't want to leave the 1,235 acres (500 hectares) where they raise cattle and sheep.\"There is no land like ours,\" she told told the Associated Press.Robert F Kennedy Jr, a lawyer for the US-based Natural Resources Defense Council, appealed to Pinera to call off the project.\"It's the most beautiful place, I believe, on the planet,\" said Kennedy, who kayaks there every year. \"I don't know any place like Patagonia.\"Investors have spent $220m on the project so far, but opposition has grown to 61% of Chileans according to the latest Ipsos Public Affairs poll, and the government is concerned about a backlash.More than 1,000 people gathered outside the hearing in the regional hub of Coyhaique, chanting and carrying signs. Some threw rocks at the cars of commissioners, and clashed afterward with hundreds of police, who responded with a water cannon and tear gas. Several protesters were bloodied in the melee, and the commissioners were kept inside for their safety.In downtown Santiago, several thousand people blocking a main avenue in protest also encountered tear gas and police water cannons.The mining and energy minister, Laurence Golborne, had urged opponents to turn to the courts, and they did vow to appeal.\"We're going to keep fighting until this project is unviable,\" said Patricio Rodrigo, a spokesman for the Patagonia Without Dams coalition. \"This project robs us of our sovereignty.\"But the interior minister, Rodrigo Hinzpeter, who sent police to contain the protests, said that \"the most important thing is that our country needs to grow, to progress, and for this we need energy.\"Chile's decision has lessons for a world confronting a future without inexpensive fossil fuels and questioning nuclear safety. The country has abundant renewable-energy potential, from dams on its many rivers to year-round sun in its northern deserts, wind along its long Pacific coast, numerous geothermal sites and biomass from its large agricultural industry.But Chile gets less than 5% of its electricity from renewable sources other than hydroelectricity, has done little to encourage efficiency, and lacks a strategy for securing future supplies, although a government commission will make such recommendations by September.", "tags": ["Wave and tidal power", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Rivers", "Water", "Environment", "Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile approves $7bn hydroelectric dam in Patagonian wilderness"},{"date": "2011-05-12T15:46:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A massive hydroelectric project was approved last Monday in Chile after three years of evaluations and big controversy. The project involves the construction of five hydroelectric power stations in two of the most untouched and wildest rivers in the world \u2013 the Baker and the Pascua rivers.HidroAys\u00e9n project will dam around 6,000 hectares in the remote southern Chilean Patagonia. This will have a deep environmental impact in a place as pure as that. The Ays\u00e9n region is the less populated region in the country and is famous for its beauty and isolation. An interesting ecotourism industry has been developing in the area lately, which would be damaged by the dams. The project also includes the construction of a transmission line from Ays\u00e9n region, all the way to the capital Santiago. This will mean power cables and 5,000 towers of 50 meters tall, one every 400 meters, along 2,200km. The effect will be the deforestation of 23,000 hectares, and six national parks as well as 11 national reserves will be damaged. The visual impact would be massive.The social impact would last for years, bringing thousands of people to live and work in Patagonia. In 2007 I lived in Chile Chico, a small city in Ays\u00e9n region, and know how apprehensive and reluctant Patagonia residents are when it comes to admit new people or big changes into their lives. Most of the families there arrived in Patagonia many years ago, when there were no even paths, let alone roads. They built their lives without any help in those unexplored areas. The Chilean Patagonia without Dams group, which gathers 79 national and international groups \u2013 from Greenpeace to Ays\u00e9n's bishopric \u2013 has displayed a strong campaign.HidroAys\u00e9n is a corporation formed by Endesa Chile, subsidiary of the Spanish-Italian Endesea and Colb\u00fan SA, which belongs to Matte group, owner of one of the biggest fortunes in the country. Together, these two companies control 74% of the Central Interconnected System (SIC). With HidroAys\u00e9's approval, this will grow to 80%. A virtual monopoly of private companies operates this strategic industry. Energy in Chile is some of the most expensive in the world and HidroAys\u00e9n won't change that.People who support HidroAys\u00e9n say it is necessary to fulfil Chile's growing energy requirements. Indeed, it will generate 2,750MW of electricity \u2013 but none of them will be used in Patagonia. The transmission line will take all that energy to Santiago to be used by the SIC, which provides energy for 90% of the Chilean population. The country imports 97% of its fossil fuels and depends largely on hydropower for electricity. It has been said that if Chile wants to keep growing it has to duplicate its energy grid during the next 10 years, and that HidroAys\u00e9n would be essential for that \u2013 although there are studies that say the opposite. Beyond the environmental and social impacts that this specific project may cause, the problem that underlines is the lack of a coherent and sustainable long-term energy policy in the country.Besides HidroAys\u00e9n, this year rightwing president Sebastian Pi\u00f1era approved the construction of three very pollutant coal thermoelectric plants, one of which will be the biggest in Latin America. Thankfully, after Japan's earthquake, it seems that nuclear energy is out of the picture. Chile is as seismic as Japan and we had an 8.8 earthquake followed by a tsunami in February last year.Previous leftwing coalition governments did no better. They never opposed HidroAys\u00e9n and former president Eduardo Frei approved the construction of Ralco central on B\u00edo-B\u00edo river. This destroyed the indigenous community of Pehuenches that used to live there; the former cemetery flooded and the bones of their ancestors floating will be an image hard to forget.It is difficult to understand why this social and environmental destruction happens in a country that has such big potential for non-traditional renewable energy sources \u2013 such as solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and tidal \u2013 that could diversify energy production and make it more sustainable. According to the UN, these energies could fulfil almost 80% of the world's energy demand by 2050. Only about 3% of Chile's energy is produced by these means.After HidroAys\u00e9n's approval was announced, thousands of people protested on the streets and were violently suppressed by the police. Twitter and Facebook showed signs of big discontent and HidroAys\u00e9n's website was hacked yesterday. People are calling for massive demos as well. In the meantime, HidroAys\u00e9n's opponents will have recourse to justice to stop the project. I sincerely wish them luck.", "tags": ["Chile", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "World news", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Chile dams will bring social and environmental destruction | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-05-10T19:38:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chilean authorities have approved a \u00a31.8bn plan to dam two rivers in Patagonia for hydroelectricity, triggering angry protests and claims that swathes of pristine wilderness will be destroyed.The HidroAys\u00e9n project envisages five dams to tap the Baker and Pascua rivers, an isolated area of fjords and valleys, and generate 2.75 gigawatts of power for Chile's booming economy.The government has championed the dams as vital to poverty alleviation and economic growth, but public opinion has split, with many saying the project is unnecessary and will devastate an ecological haven.Police arrested dozens of protesters and clashed with hundreds more in Coihaique, a Patagonian city where on Monday a government-appointed commission voted 11 to one in favour of the dams after a three-year environmental review.The commissioners were kept indoors for their own safety as people threw rocks and battled police with water cannon and tear gas. Similar scenes unfolded in the capital, Santiago.The Patagonia Without Dams advocacy group accused the commissioners of conflicts of interest and said the project was \"destructive and illegal\". It said the dams would flood at least 5,600 hectares of rare forest ecosystems, river valleys and farmland.\"We are outraged. We are calling on President [Sebasti\u00e1n] Pi\u00f1era to overturn this decision and protect Patagonia,\" said Patricio Rodrigo, the group's executive secretary. Critics say the project would also drown the habitat of the endangered southern huemul deer, a national symbol.An Ipsos poll said 61% of Chileans opposed the dams. The polarisation offered a sharp contrast to the nation's feelgood glow after last year's rescue of 31 trapped miners, an operation which boosted the conservative president's ratings.The environment minister, Mar\u00eda Ignacia Ben\u00edtez, denied the commission's findings were a stitch-up in favour of energy corporations and banks which would profit from the project. The \"very demanding\" investigation adhered to laws and took into account the environmental impact, she told Radio Agricultura.HidroAys\u00e9n argued that the dams would provide cheap and clean electricity in comparison to oil and coal. Chile recently approved three coal plants, including the biggest one in Latin America.The interior minister, Rodrigo Hinzpeter, told reporters: \"The most important thing is that our country needs to grow, to progress, and for this we need energy.\"Some analysts say Chile will need to triple its energy capacity in the next 15 years to feed fast-growing industries and cities. Though rich in copper and other minerals, the country imports 97% of its fossil fuels and relies mainly on hydropower for electricity, leaving it vulnerable to oil shocks and drought.The council of ministers is expected to nod through the proposed dams but activists hope to win key concessions in the environmental impact assessment for the next phase of the project: 1,200-mile transmission lines, estimated to cost \u00a32.3bn, to bring electricity from Patagonia to Santiago.That review, due in December, could sharply restrict the number of lines or alternatively open Patagonia to multiple lines, roads and possibly more dams.Much of the controversy hinges on whether Chile has viable alternative means to boost power capacity. With nuclear power widely considered anathema, some tout the Atacama desert as a source of immense solar thermal production, especially given its relative proximity to mines and industry.\"Numerous studies have shown that Chile can sustainably and safely meet its energy needs through increased investments in non-conventional renewable energy and energy efficiency, with less environmental, social and economic costs than HidroAys\u00e9n,\" said Berklee Lowrey-Evans, of the International Rivers group.However Maria Isabel Gonzalez, former head of Chile's National Energy Commission, rebuked foreign critics of the plan. \"Chile is still a poor country, with 2.5 million poor people, and to overcome poverty we need energy, and for that reason we need to develop our own resources,\" she told AP. \"It would be very selfish on the part of the rich countries to say, 'Look how they're destroying these uninhabited pristine areas.'\u00a0\"", "tags": ["Wave and tidal power", "World news", "Chile", "Conservation", "Environment", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Rivers", "Water", "Americas"], "title": "Protests after Chile backs giant dams in Patagonia's valleys"},{"date": "2011-04-27T16:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean poet Gonzalo Rojas died on Monday morning aged 93, and the government has declared two days of national mourning. I met him in 2006 when, as a young journalist, I wanted to interview one of the most important Chilean poets of the 20th century \u2013 with Nobel prizewinners Gabriela Mistral and Pablo Neruda under Chile's belt, we have high standards.Rojas received me in his house in Chill\u00e1n, a small city in the south of the country. The first thing I remember is his collection of 35,000 books. He told me he had read them all. He was not just a writer \u2013 he had also been a professor in the US, at Columbia and Chicago universities, as well as having taught in Germany, Venezuela, Spain, Mexico and, of course, his home country.His work has been translated into English, German, French, Portuguese, Russian, Italian, Rumanian, Swedish, Chinese, Turkish and Greek. He was awarded the Chilean national prize for literature, the Queen Sofia prize of Iberian American poetry, Mexico's Octavio Paz prize and in 2003, the Cervantes prize for literature.His home had four or five different bedrooms. He didn't like to wake up in the same place every morning. One had a sexy bed with mirrors. He bought it in China and wrote about it in his poem Bed of Mirrors. This mirrored bed is symbolic of two dimensions of Rojas's work and life. On the one hand, that eroticism \u2013 together with love and death \u2013 was an important element in his poetry and in his life: the anthology What Do We Love When We Love gathers 41 of his erotic poems.On the other hand, there is China and politics. In 1959, Rojas visited the country and managed to meet, and talk, for an hour and a half with Mao Zedong. He told me they didn't talk about politics and that he was impressed with \"that colossal animal\". He especially remembered Mao's hands: \"thin, feminine\". He said it was because of that meeting that President Salvador Allende asked him to be cultural counsel in China, back in 1970 (Rojas never belonged to any political party, but he was leftwing).He was in China for a year and was sent to Cuba afterwards. Rojas was there at the time of the 1973 Chilean military coup. Because of his previous political work for Allende, Pinochet's dictatorship stripped him of his nationality, and he and his family had to find exile in East Germany and Venezuela. He went back to Chile in 1979 thanks to a Guggenheim fellowship, but found he was not able to work at all, and because he was banned from teaching at any Chilean university, he went to live in the US.Coming back to Chile once again in 1995, Rojas refused to live in the capital, Santiago He chose Chill\u00e1n, 400km to the south, which was the hometown of his second wife, Hilda May, and their son. Rojas himself was born in a southern small town called Lebu, into a coalmining family. He told me: \"They have asked me a thousand times, 'Why don't you go to live in Spain? You have a job there, they awarded you. Why don't you go to US? You have a house there.' No, I like it here, the people from the provinces, this simplicity.\"At the Chilean National Museum of Fine Arts in Santiago, Chileans have been holding a wake over the poet's body. He is being taken back to Chill\u00e1n, where he will be buried. The king of Spain, Juan Carlos, who is awarding the Cervantes prize to the Spanish writer Ana Mar\u00eda Matutes on Wednesday, remembered when he met Rojas for the same awards ceremony years ago: \"He liked to introduce himself as a coalminer's son, and to imagine Cervantes reading the world and rereading us.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Poetry", "Books", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Chile mourns for Gonzalo Rojas | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-06-22T14:32:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile's Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era government is facing hard times. In addition to citizen disapproval rates currently standing at 56%, he now has to contend with massive student protests of a scale not seen in Chile since the return of democracy in 1990. The latest large-scale protest brought together hundreds of thousands of people across the country, demanding better public education and social justice in one of the countries with, according to the Gini index, the highest inequality levels.The clearest reflection of this inequality in Chile can be seen in education. As a result of a series of neoliberal reforms, Chile has developed one of the world's most segregated education systems, with insufficient state participation. Public expenditure on education accounts for 4% of the gross domestic product, compared with 7% in developed countries. This has translated into a growing privatisation trend in education since the 1980s.Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship prioritised freedom of education over the right to education, opening up education to the market, as though it were a product to buy and sell. The Concertaci\u00f3n, a social democratic coalition that governed from 1990 to 2010, administered this model, introducing certain reforms that focused on access but neglected quality and equality. Today, only 10% of Chilean students access schools that will provide them with real opportunities for the future.Most students wander between precarious public schools and deficient subsidised or voucher schools. The university system was also reformed in the 1980s, allowing a proliferation of private universities (very few of which are decent) which, despite being classified as non-profit organisations, nevertheless yield juicy returns for their owners thanks to a series of subterfuges. The minister of education himself, Joaqu\u00edn Lav\u00edn, owned a university before taking office.By contrast, public universities have become increasingly weak and today are barely able to finance their most basic operations. For instance, the University of Chile, the country's main university and one of the best in Latin America, only receives 14% of its budget from the state. It has to be financed with degree fees, passing on the financial burden to its students. In fact, families finance 73% of higher education in Chile, a figure that greatly exceeds the average (16%) for OECD countries. This is one of the main demands of the students who are now taking to the streets. They carry enormous debts, which could reach $100,000 (\u00a362,000) within 20 years.The current education system is founded upon neoliberalism, privatisation, a climate of over-expectation and promises of social mobility. However, Chilean society is stratified, with a small group holding all the privileges. There is no real room for meritocracy or equal opportunities. For instance, the unemployment rate among young people (15.2%) is more than double the national average. Most young people are building up frustration by seeing how their hopes for the future clash with the sad reality.The first signs of this malaise appeared in 2006, when thousands of secondary school students took to the streets in what became known as the \"penguins' revolution\". They managed to overturn the LOCE, the organic law on education established by Pinochet's dictatorship, which was then replaced by the Ley General de Educaci\u00f3n (LGE) in an agreement signed by all political parties. However, the law failed to satisfy both students and teachers because, once again, no real reform of the public education system had been undertaken.Students and teachers understand that strengthening public education will greatly contribute to building a fairer society and a better democracy. The neoliberal reforms that promoted competition and privatisation have failed because they have been unable to bridge the existing social divides and have perpetuated privileges.Some say that the Chilean education system is not in crisis and resort to figures regarding access to argue their point. However, they say nothing of the inequality or the quality of the education. Luckily, students are mobilising to remind us that a better public education means a better country.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Students", "Education", "Protest", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Students march for a better Chile | Cristian Cabalin"},{"date": "2011-06-04T23:09:17Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Thousands of people have been evacuated from their homes after a volcano which has been dormant for decades started erupting in southern Chile.Large columns of smoke reached more than six miles from the crater of the Puyehue volcano, which lies about 500 miles south of the capital, Santiago.Winds fanned the ash towards neighbouring Argentina over the skies in the ski resort city of San Carlos de Bariloche, which caused the local airport to close.The governor of Chile's Los Rios region said fire could be seen in the volcano's crater and smoke was billowing into the sky.The eruption prompted authorities to shut a heavily travelled border crossing with Argentina, but there have been no reports of injuries.The Chilean government said it was evacuating 3,500 people from the surrounding area as a precaution.Authorities put the area around the volcano on alert after a flurry of earthquakes. The National Emergency Office says it has recorded an average of 230 tremors an hour.\"The Cordon Caulle (volcanic range) has entered an eruptive process, with an explosion resulting in a 10-kilometre-high gas column,\" state emergency office ONEMI said.The chain of Puyehue-Cordon Caulle volcanos \u2013 of which there are four \u2013 last saw a major eruption in 1960.", "tags": ["Chile", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Argentina", "World news", "Americas", "Volcanoes"], "title": "Puyehue volcano in Chile erupts, prompting mass evacuation"},{"date": "2011-06-01T18:29:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is to investigate whether Augusto Pinochet's regime murdered the Nobel prize-winning poet Pablo Neruda after it seized power in a bloody 1973 coup.A judge, Mario Carroza, will examine claims that agents injected poison into Neruda's stomach while he was treated in Santiago's Santa Maria clinic for prostate cancer, which until now was blamed for his heart failure.If confirmed the allegation would rank as one of the dictatorship's vilest murders given Neruda's status as a revered literary great at home and abroad.Chile's communist party demanded the investigation after the poet's former driver, Manuel Araya, said Pinochet henchmen injected the 69-year-old on the day he died, 23 September 1973, 12 days after the coup.Neruda, a communist and political activist, had just written an article excoriating the military regime and defending his friend Salvador Allende, the socialist president who died during the coup.Guillermo Teillier, president of the communist party, told the appellate court there was a moral requirement to clarify Neruda's cause of death. \"We are acting responsibly, reasonable doubts exist,\" he told journalists.The Neruda Foundation, which administers his estate, has rejected the murder theory and said the author of Twenty Poems of Love and a Song of Despair was gravely ill.The communist party said however that other Neruda staff had echoed the driver's suspicion and that Mexico's former ambassador to Chile, Gonzalo Mart\u00ednez Corbal\u00e1, apparently found Neruda in good form a day before his death.Six people, including Pinochet agents, allegedly poisoned a former president, Eduardo Frei, in the same clinic in 1981. They were charged last year in connection with his death.Neruda and Frei are among 725 possible murder cases from the \"dirty war\" now under investigation. Last month Allende's remains were exhumed for a forensic examination to determine if he really shot himself with an AK-47, the official version, as troops closed in on the palace.This week TVN, a state television channel, reported it had obtained a previously buried 300-page military review of Allende's death which suggested he was shot first in the face with a small-calibre weapon and that the AK-47 was fired after his death.", "tags": ["Augusto Pinochet", "World news", "Chile", "Americas", "Pablo Neruda"], "title": "Chile to investigate Pinochet regime role in Pablo Neruda murder"},{"date": "2011-05-10T09:36:36Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A $7bn (\u00a34.2bn) project to dam two of the world's wildest rivers for electricity won environmental approval on Monday from a Chilean government commission, despite a groundswell of opposition.The commissioners \u2013 all political appointees in President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era's government \u2013 concluded a three-year environmental review by approving five dams on the Baker and Pascua rivers in Aysen, a mostly roadless region of remote southern Patagonia where rainfall is nearly constant and rivers plunge from Andean glaciers to the Pacific Ocean through green valleys and fjords.Monday's vote \u2013 11 in favour and one abstention \u2013 could prove to be pivotal for the future of Chile, which has a booming economy, vast mineral wealth and a determination to join the elite group of first-world nations.With its energy-intensive mining industry clamoring for more power and living standards improving, some analysts say Chile must triple its capacity in just 15 years, despite having no domestic oil or natural gas. Chile imports 97% of its fossil fuels and depends largely on hydropower for electricity, creating a crisis when droughts drain reservoirs or faraway disputes affect energy imports.Supporters say the economic benefits of the dam project justify carving roads through the heart of Chile's remaining wilderness and running 1,000 miles (1,600 kilometres) of transmission lines to power the capital, Santiago.The dams together could generate 2.75 gigawatts, nearly a third of central Chile's current capacity, within 12 years. The Aysen region will receive less expensive energy, jobs, scholarships and $350m in infrastructure, including seaports and airports, said HidroAysen's executive vice president, Daniel Fernandez.But people in the sparsely populated area are divided. Only three dozen families would be relocated, but the dams would drown 14,000 acres (5,700 hectares), require carving clear-cuts through forests, and eliminate whitewater rapids and waterfalls that attract ecotourism. They also would destroy habitat for the endangered Southern Huemul deer: Fewer than 1,000 of the diminutive animals, a national symbol, are believed to exist.\"They are all sell-outs,\" rancher Elisabeth \"Lilli\" Schindele said of the commissioners.She lives with her husband and two young children in the Nadis, a sector that would be inundated. Their neighbours have agreed to relocation, but she doesn't want to leave the 1,235 acres (500 hectares) where they raise cattle and sheep.\"There is no land like ours,\" she told told the Associated Press.Robert F Kennedy Jr, a lawyer for the US-based Natural Resources Defense Council, appealed to Pinera to call off the project.\"It's the most beautiful place, I believe, on the planet,\" said Kennedy, who kayaks there every year. \"I don't know any place like Patagonia.\"Investors have spent $220m on the project so far, but opposition has grown to 61% of Chileans according to the latest Ipsos Public Affairs poll, and the government is concerned about a backlash.More than 1,000 people gathered outside the hearing in the regional hub of Coyhaique, chanting and carrying signs. Some threw rocks at the cars of commissioners, and clashed afterward with hundreds of police, who responded with a water cannon and tear gas. Several protesters were bloodied in the melee, and the commissioners were kept inside for their safety.In downtown Santiago, several thousand people blocking a main avenue in protest also encountered tear gas and police water cannons.The mining and energy minister, Laurence Golborne, had urged opponents to turn to the courts, and they did vow to appeal.\"We're going to keep fighting until this project is unviable,\" said Patricio Rodrigo, a spokesman for the Patagonia Without Dams coalition. \"This project robs us of our sovereignty.\"But the interior minister, Rodrigo Hinzpeter, who sent police to contain the protests, said that \"the most important thing is that our country needs to grow, to progress, and for this we need energy.\"Chile's decision has lessons for a world confronting a future without inexpensive fossil fuels and questioning nuclear safety. The country has abundant renewable-energy potential, from dams on its many rivers to year-round sun in its northern deserts, wind along its long Pacific coast, numerous geothermal sites and biomass from its large agricultural industry.But Chile gets less than 5% of its electricity from renewable sources other than hydroelectricity, has done little to encourage efficiency, and lacks a strategy for securing future supplies, although a government commission will make such recommendations by September.", "tags": ["Wave and tidal power", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Rivers", "Water", "Environment", "Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile approves $7bn hydroelectric dam in Patagonian wilderness"},{"date": "2011-05-12T15:46:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A massive hydroelectric project was approved last Monday in Chile after three years of evaluations and big controversy. The project involves the construction of five hydroelectric power stations in two of the most untouched and wildest rivers in the world \u2013 the Baker and the Pascua rivers.HidroAys\u00e9n project will dam around 6,000 hectares in the remote southern Chilean Patagonia. This will have a deep environmental impact in a place as pure as that. The Ays\u00e9n region is the less populated region in the country and is famous for its beauty and isolation. An interesting ecotourism industry has been developing in the area lately, which would be damaged by the dams. The project also includes the construction of a transmission line from Ays\u00e9n region, all the way to the capital Santiago. This will mean power cables and 5,000 towers of 50 meters tall, one every 400 meters, along 2,200km. The effect will be the deforestation of 23,000 hectares, and six national parks as well as 11 national reserves will be damaged. The visual impact would be massive.The social impact would last for years, bringing thousands of people to live and work in Patagonia. In 2007 I lived in Chile Chico, a small city in Ays\u00e9n region, and know how apprehensive and reluctant Patagonia residents are when it comes to admit new people or big changes into their lives. Most of the families there arrived in Patagonia many years ago, when there were no even paths, let alone roads. They built their lives without any help in those unexplored areas. The Chilean Patagonia without Dams group, which gathers 79 national and international groups \u2013 from Greenpeace to Ays\u00e9n's bishopric \u2013 has displayed a strong campaign.HidroAys\u00e9n is a corporation formed by Endesa Chile, subsidiary of the Spanish-Italian Endesea and Colb\u00fan SA, which belongs to Matte group, owner of one of the biggest fortunes in the country. Together, these two companies control 74% of the Central Interconnected System (SIC). With HidroAys\u00e9's approval, this will grow to 80%. A virtual monopoly of private companies operates this strategic industry. Energy in Chile is some of the most expensive in the world and HidroAys\u00e9n won't change that.People who support HidroAys\u00e9n say it is necessary to fulfil Chile's growing energy requirements. Indeed, it will generate 2,750MW of electricity \u2013 but none of them will be used in Patagonia. The transmission line will take all that energy to Santiago to be used by the SIC, which provides energy for 90% of the Chilean population. The country imports 97% of its fossil fuels and depends largely on hydropower for electricity. It has been said that if Chile wants to keep growing it has to duplicate its energy grid during the next 10 years, and that HidroAys\u00e9n would be essential for that \u2013 although there are studies that say the opposite. Beyond the environmental and social impacts that this specific project may cause, the problem that underlines is the lack of a coherent and sustainable long-term energy policy in the country.Besides HidroAys\u00e9n, this year rightwing president Sebastian Pi\u00f1era approved the construction of three very pollutant coal thermoelectric plants, one of which will be the biggest in Latin America. Thankfully, after Japan's earthquake, it seems that nuclear energy is out of the picture. Chile is as seismic as Japan and we had an 8.8 earthquake followed by a tsunami in February last year.Previous leftwing coalition governments did no better. They never opposed HidroAys\u00e9n and former president Eduardo Frei approved the construction of Ralco central on B\u00edo-B\u00edo river. This destroyed the indigenous community of Pehuenches that used to live there; the former cemetery flooded and the bones of their ancestors floating will be an image hard to forget.It is difficult to understand why this social and environmental destruction happens in a country that has such big potential for non-traditional renewable energy sources \u2013 such as solar, wind, geothermal, biomass and tidal \u2013 that could diversify energy production and make it more sustainable. According to the UN, these energies could fulfil almost 80% of the world's energy demand by 2050. Only about 3% of Chile's energy is produced by these means.After HidroAys\u00e9n's approval was announced, thousands of people protested on the streets and were violently suppressed by the police. Twitter and Facebook showed signs of big discontent and HidroAys\u00e9n's website was hacked yesterday. People are calling for massive demos as well. In the meantime, HidroAys\u00e9n's opponents will have recourse to justice to stop the project. I sincerely wish them luck.", "tags": ["Chile", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Environment", "World news", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Chile dams will bring social and environmental destruction | Catalina May"},{"date": "2011-05-10T19:38:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chilean authorities have approved a \u00a31.8bn plan to dam two rivers in Patagonia for hydroelectricity, triggering angry protests and claims that swathes of pristine wilderness will be destroyed.The HidroAys\u00e9n project envisages five dams to tap the Baker and Pascua rivers, an isolated area of fjords and valleys, and generate 2.75 gigawatts of power for Chile's booming economy.The government has championed the dams as vital to poverty alleviation and economic growth, but public opinion has split, with many saying the project is unnecessary and will devastate an ecological haven.Police arrested dozens of protesters and clashed with hundreds more in Coihaique, a Patagonian city where on Monday a government-appointed commission voted 11 to one in favour of the dams after a three-year environmental review.The commissioners were kept indoors for their own safety as people threw rocks and battled police with water cannon and tear gas. Similar scenes unfolded in the capital, Santiago.The Patagonia Without Dams advocacy group accused the commissioners of conflicts of interest and said the project was \"destructive and illegal\". It said the dams would flood at least 5,600 hectares of rare forest ecosystems, river valleys and farmland.\"We are outraged. We are calling on President [Sebasti\u00e1n] Pi\u00f1era to overturn this decision and protect Patagonia,\" said Patricio Rodrigo, the group's executive secretary. Critics say the project would also drown the habitat of the endangered southern huemul deer, a national symbol.An Ipsos poll said 61% of Chileans opposed the dams. The polarisation offered a sharp contrast to the nation's feelgood glow after last year's rescue of 31 trapped miners, an operation which boosted the conservative president's ratings.The environment minister, Mar\u00eda Ignacia Ben\u00edtez, denied the commission's findings were a stitch-up in favour of energy corporations and banks which would profit from the project. The \"very demanding\" investigation adhered to laws and took into account the environmental impact, she told Radio Agricultura.HidroAys\u00e9n argued that the dams would provide cheap and clean electricity in comparison to oil and coal. Chile recently approved three coal plants, including the biggest one in Latin America.The interior minister, Rodrigo Hinzpeter, told reporters: \"The most important thing is that our country needs to grow, to progress, and for this we need energy.\"Some analysts say Chile will need to triple its energy capacity in the next 15 years to feed fast-growing industries and cities. Though rich in copper and other minerals, the country imports 97% of its fossil fuels and relies mainly on hydropower for electricity, leaving it vulnerable to oil shocks and drought.The council of ministers is expected to nod through the proposed dams but activists hope to win key concessions in the environmental impact assessment for the next phase of the project: 1,200-mile transmission lines, estimated to cost \u00a32.3bn, to bring electricity from Patagonia to Santiago.That review, due in December, could sharply restrict the number of lines or alternatively open Patagonia to multiple lines, roads and possibly more dams.Much of the controversy hinges on whether Chile has viable alternative means to boost power capacity. With nuclear power widely considered anathema, some tout the Atacama desert as a source of immense solar thermal production, especially given its relative proximity to mines and industry.\"Numerous studies have shown that Chile can sustainably and safely meet its energy needs through increased investments in non-conventional renewable energy and energy efficiency, with less environmental, social and economic costs than HidroAys\u00e9n,\" said Berklee Lowrey-Evans, of the International Rivers group.However Maria Isabel Gonzalez, former head of Chile's National Energy Commission, rebuked foreign critics of the plan. \"Chile is still a poor country, with 2.5 million poor people, and to overcome poverty we need energy, and for that reason we need to develop our own resources,\" she told AP. \"It would be very selfish on the part of the rich countries to say, 'Look how they're destroying these uninhabited pristine areas.'\u00a0\"", "tags": ["Wave and tidal power", "World news", "Chile", "Conservation", "Environment", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Rivers", "Water", "Americas"], "title": "Protests after Chile backs giant dams in Patagonia's valleys"},{"date": "2011-04-13T00:06:33Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Accompanied by a backing track straight out of a bank heist film, a video clip showing the Czech Republic's president discreetly pocketing a ceremonial pen encrusted with semi-precious stones while his Chilean counterpart praises him during a Latin American visit has become an unlikely internet sensation.Vaclav Klaus, a conservative who has attracted international news coverage more often in recent years as a result of his combative Eurosceptic views, is shown in the clip opening a box containing the pen at the start of a press conference alongside Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era.As Pi\u00f1era addresses journalists and gives Klaus an enthusiastic welcome, the Czech president takes the pen out, examines it carefully, moves his hands under the table, shuffles with his jacket, then buttons it up with both hands and finally lets his empty hands emerge above the table again to close the case.Czech television initially broadcast the video on Sunday, the same day as the appearance, before a copy later showed up on YouTube with the headline \"President of Czech Republic steals pen\", complete with the addition of a crime scene soundtrack and red circles and arrows highlighting various points in Klaus's manoeuvre. Versions of the clip have been viewed over a million times.A spokesman for Klaus said that it was \"a common pen with a logo of the state or office, which presidents and members of their delegation receive during state visits\".The pens are encrusted with Chilean lapis lazuli stones, which are prized for their intense blue colour, but a spokeswoman for Pi\u00f1era said the Chilean president's guests were free to take them.\"All I have to say is, it is not a pen but just a stylus,\" Klaus himself said on Tuesday, adding that he takes things all the time.He said he had a pen from a Nato summit in October and a notepad from the Latvian parliament. \"It is what people do regularly. They keep notepads and pens from such events,\" he said.But back in the Czech Republic, the clip has inspired a Facebook campaign in which the public is being asked to contribute to a special collection for him.Participants are asked to send pens to Klaus's office on 2 May \"as the president obviously has nothing to write with\", according to the Facebook group.", "tags": ["V\u00e1clav Havel", "Czech Republic", "Chile", "World news", "YouTube", "Technology", "Americas"], "title": "Czech leader Vaclav Klaus caught stealing pen on Chile trip"},{"date": "2011-08-05T18:20:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "It began as a series of peaceful protests calling for reform of the Chilean government's education system, with students staging mass kiss-ins, dressing up in superhero costumes and running laps around the presidential palace. But on Thursday these surreal protests exploded into violence as school and university students clashed with police and seized a TV station, demanding the right to a live broadcast in order to express their demands.The Chilean winter, as it is being called, appears to have captured the public mood, just as the Arab spring did six months ago.After a day of street clashes, 874 people had been arrested and department store in the capital was smouldering after being attacked by protesters. Outrage against the rightwing government of Sebasti\u00e0n Pi\u00f1era boiled over, with polls showing he is more unpopular than any leader since the fall of former dictator Augusto Pinochet.Striking school students led the charge as they tried to march on the presidential palace early on Thursday, only to be thwarted by hundreds of police in riot gear and clouds of teargas. Tucapel Jim\u00e9nez, a member of the Chilean congress, called for sanctions against government authorities who authorised what he called \"brutal repression\" by riot police.\"This is unacceptable, the centre of Santiago is a state of siege,\" said university student leader Camila Vallejo, tears rolling down her face after being doused in teargas. \"The right to congregate has been violated.\"\"I don't see any other solution than a general referendum,\" said Giorgio Jackson, president of the Catholic University student union as he described the distance between student demands and the government offer. \"There are some points of agrement, but clearly there are other points that are very relevant and in which we have grand differences.\" News coverage of students being gassed and hauled off buses by police squads led Vallejo to call for the resignation of Rodrigo Hinzpeter, Chile's interior minister. Government officials insisted the students did not have a permit to march and defended the police reaction as necessary to maintain business as usual in Santiago. Government spokesman Andr\u00e9s Chadwick estimated vandalism damage at $2m.Marches were held in other big cities, including Valpara\u00edso, Concepci\u00f3n and Temuco. Protests continued into the evening with vandalism and bonfires in various parts of the capital, snarling traffic and highlighting the growing wave of discontent.La Polar, a retail chain recently charged with saddling consumers with outrageous interest rates on overdue accounts, was set alight. The torching was widely denounced by protest groups, but was the latest evidence that long dormant Chilean youth are rebelling against the orthodox free market ideology that dominates everyday Chilean life.In recent years, for example, it was common for private hospitals to impose a 100% surcharge for babies born outside business hours. Students have long insisted for-profit universities and schools should receive no government subsidies.The protest movement, organised largely through Facebook and Twitter, has shaken the Chilean political establishment as up to 100,000 students, usually costumed and peaceful, have marched.With a mix of music and fancy dress, the students have used the streets of the capital as a stage for acts ranging from a 3,000- person re-enactmant of Michael Jackson's Thriller dance to a \"besa-thon\", where young couples kissed for hours in front of La Moneda, the presidential palace.For two months hundreds of high schools have been seized by teenage students. Despite warnings from the government that tens of thousands of students would be forced to repeat the entire school year, high schoolers continue to demand an end to for-profit educational institutions, lower interest rates on student loans and a bus pass valid year round.An opinion poll on Thursday put Pi\u00f1era's popularity at 26%. Opposition coalition La Concertacion had an approval rating of just 16% as the range of popular complaints appears to grow daily.One year ago Chile was celebrating its new-found unity and the Pi\u00f1era administration was lauded by the world media for the teamwork used to save 33 trapped copper miners. Today the heroes are the student leaders, including Vallejo, who wields enormous political power.Pi\u00f1era has sacked his education minister and promised billions in new government spending for education in an unsuccesful attempt to quell the protests.After being teargassed on Thursday, Vallejo called on citizens to show support for the striking students by banging pots and pans at 9pm \u2013 a reminder of the call to the streets used in the Pinochet era. Her call spread like wildfire on social networks and led to a night of clanging celebrations, spontaneous street festivals and a national realisation that Chile is living a historical moment, with a movement that cuts across traditional social and class boundaries.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Protest", "Americas"], "title": "Chile student protests explode into violence"},{"date": "2011-08-05T18:20:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "It began as a series of peaceful protests calling for reform of the Chilean government's education system, with students staging mass kiss-ins, dressing up in superhero costumes and running laps around the presidential palace. But on Thursday these surreal protests exploded into violence as school and university students clashed with police and seized a TV station, demanding the right to a live broadcast in order to express their demands.The Chilean winter, as it is being called, appears to have captured the public mood, just as the Arab spring did six months ago.After a day of street clashes, 874 people had been arrested and department store in the capital was smouldering after being attacked by protesters. Outrage against the rightwing government of Sebasti\u00e0n Pi\u00f1era boiled over, with polls showing he is more unpopular than any leader since the fall of former dictator Augusto Pinochet.Striking school students led the charge as they tried to march on the presidential palace early on Thursday, only to be thwarted by hundreds of police in riot gear and clouds of teargas. Tucapel Jim\u00e9nez, a member of the Chilean congress, called for sanctions against government authorities who authorised what he called \"brutal repression\" by riot police.\"This is unacceptable, the centre of Santiago is a state of siege,\" said university student leader Camila Vallejo, tears rolling down her face after being doused in teargas. \"The right to congregate has been violated.\"\"I don't see any other solution than a general referendum,\" said Giorgio Jackson, president of the Catholic University student union as he described the distance between student demands and the government offer. \"There are some points of agrement, but clearly there are other points that are very relevant and in which we have grand differences.\" News coverage of students being gassed and hauled off buses by police squads led Vallejo to call for the resignation of Rodrigo Hinzpeter, Chile's interior minister. Government officials insisted the students did not have a permit to march and defended the police reaction as necessary to maintain business as usual in Santiago. Government spokesman Andr\u00e9s Chadwick estimated vandalism damage at $2m.Marches were held in other big cities, including Valpara\u00edso, Concepci\u00f3n and Temuco. Protests continued into the evening with vandalism and bonfires in various parts of the capital, snarling traffic and highlighting the growing wave of discontent.La Polar, a retail chain recently charged with saddling consumers with outrageous interest rates on overdue accounts, was set alight. The torching was widely denounced by protest groups, but was the latest evidence that long dormant Chilean youth are rebelling against the orthodox free market ideology that dominates everyday Chilean life.In recent years, for example, it was common for private hospitals to impose a 100% surcharge for babies born outside business hours. Students have long insisted for-profit universities and schools should receive no government subsidies.The protest movement, organised largely through Facebook and Twitter, has shaken the Chilean political establishment as up to 100,000 students, usually costumed and peaceful, have marched.With a mix of music and fancy dress, the students have used the streets of the capital as a stage for acts ranging from a 3,000- person re-enactmant of Michael Jackson's Thriller dance to a \"besa-thon\", where young couples kissed for hours in front of La Moneda, the presidential palace.For two months hundreds of high schools have been seized by teenage students. Despite warnings from the government that tens of thousands of students would be forced to repeat the entire school year, high schoolers continue to demand an end to for-profit educational institutions, lower interest rates on student loans and a bus pass valid year round.An opinion poll on Thursday put Pi\u00f1era's popularity at 26%. Opposition coalition La Concertacion had an approval rating of just 16% as the range of popular complaints appears to grow daily.One year ago Chile was celebrating its new-found unity and the Pi\u00f1era administration was lauded by the world media for the teamwork used to save 33 trapped copper miners. Today the heroes are the student leaders, including Vallejo, who wields enormous political power.Pi\u00f1era has sacked his education minister and promised billions in new government spending for education in an unsuccesful attempt to quell the protests.After being teargassed on Thursday, Vallejo called on citizens to show support for the striking students by banging pots and pans at 9pm \u2013 a reminder of the call to the streets used in the Pinochet era. Her call spread like wildfire on social networks and led to a night of clanging celebrations, spontaneous street festivals and a national realisation that Chile is living a historical moment, with a movement that cuts across traditional social and class boundaries.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Protest", "Americas"], "title": "Chile student protests explode into violence"},{"date": "2011-08-05T15:30:30Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A year ago, 33 Chilean miners were trapped in a mine in the north of the country. Sixty-nine days later, they were rescued and the president of Chile, Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, was rewarded with a record approval rating. Those days now seem like a distant memory. Pi\u00f1era's stock has fallen, so much so that he has become the most unpopular president since 1990, when democracy was restored in Chile. According to the CEP (Centro de Estudios P\u00fablicos), only 26% of citizens approve of Pi\u00f1era's government, while 53% reject his administration.Rightwing Pi\u00f1era took office in 2010, promising a new way of governing, but he has not been able to fulfil this commitment. Pi\u00f1era travelled around the word after rescuing the miners, showing pride while receiving compliments. Those were happy days, but they were fleeting. A few months later, his popularity dropped. The first negative episode was related to football \u2013 the most popular sport in Chile \u2013 and the resignation of Marcelo Bielsa, the World Cup 2010 national coach. Pi\u00f1era was one of the owners of Colo-Colo, the most important football team in the country. When Bielsa, who was widely admired by Chilean fans, left the country, Colo-Colo's administrators (who were Pi\u00f1era's partners) were blamed for his resignation. Chileans saw a political hand in this operation.This episode is a good example of the conflict of interest issues that Pi\u00f1era has faced since his first day in office. In fact, if Pi\u00f1era had not been the owner of Colo-Colo, the perception would have been different. Indeed, the majority of his ministers and collaborators are former CEOs and important businessmen. Pi\u00f1era was never concerned about the conflicting relationship that exists between business and politics.Pi\u00f1era's administration is bad at handling serious problems; as exemplified in the slow rebuilding process after the disastrous earthquake and tsunami in February 2010 in the south of Chile. The government was not capable of acting promptly and thousands of victims are still waiting for their problems to be solved.Pi\u00f1era's government has tried to modify the negative perceptions with social measures, such as six months of maternity leave and free health insurance for low-income retired people. These measures are similar to those adopted by the previous socialist government led by Michelle Bachelet, but they have received criticism because of their populist characteristics. While Bachelet created a social security network and finished her administration with high levels of citizen approval, Pi\u00f1era has not been able to improve the citizens' assessment of his presidency. Polls show that, despite economic growth and low unemployment, Chileans doubt his leadership, his credibility, and his ability to manage the country. The government is facing its worst period ever, and nothing indicates that this situation will change.Chile is today a more complex country than it was two decades ago, but the current political system does not recognise this. Pi\u00f1era is member of a stubborn elite that continues to control the country as it always has, without recognising that Chileans now live in a completely different context. He believes that Chileans have the same needs that they had during their return to democracy: political stability and public security. However, most citizens want to build a more equal society, with the same opportunities for all.Recent demonstrations and protests have overshadowed his administration. Citizens are going to the streets to demand better education, gay marriage, and the protection of the environment. They're asking for changes in one of the most unequal societies in the world. After 21 years of democratisation, citizens have lost their fear and are in the streets. On Thursday night, massive demonstrations took places in various cities. Students have been mobilising since 12 May and they now have 72% citizen approval, which is almost three times greater than that of the government.", "tags": ["Chile", "Chilean miners rescue", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Why is Pi\u00f1era's government so unpopular in Chile? | Cristian Cabalin"},{"date": "2011-08-05T18:20:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "It began as a series of peaceful protests calling for reform of the Chilean government's education system, with students staging mass kiss-ins, dressing up in superhero costumes and running laps around the presidential palace. But on Thursday these surreal protests exploded into violence as school and university students clashed with police and seized a TV station, demanding the right to a live broadcast in order to express their demands.The Chilean winter, as it is being called, appears to have captured the public mood, just as the Arab spring did six months ago.After a day of street clashes, 874 people had been arrested and department store in the capital was smouldering after being attacked by protesters. Outrage against the rightwing government of Sebasti\u00e0n Pi\u00f1era boiled over, with polls showing he is more unpopular than any leader since the fall of former dictator Augusto Pinochet.Striking school students led the charge as they tried to march on the presidential palace early on Thursday, only to be thwarted by hundreds of police in riot gear and clouds of teargas. Tucapel Jim\u00e9nez, a member of the Chilean congress, called for sanctions against government authorities who authorised what he called \"brutal repression\" by riot police.\"This is unacceptable, the centre of Santiago is a state of siege,\" said university student leader Camila Vallejo, tears rolling down her face after being doused in teargas. \"The right to congregate has been violated.\"\"I don't see any other solution than a general referendum,\" said Giorgio Jackson, president of the Catholic University student union as he described the distance between student demands and the government offer. \"There are some points of agrement, but clearly there are other points that are very relevant and in which we have grand differences.\" News coverage of students being gassed and hauled off buses by police squads led Vallejo to call for the resignation of Rodrigo Hinzpeter, Chile's interior minister. Government officials insisted the students did not have a permit to march and defended the police reaction as necessary to maintain business as usual in Santiago. Government spokesman Andr\u00e9s Chadwick estimated vandalism damage at $2m.Marches were held in other big cities, including Valpara\u00edso, Concepci\u00f3n and Temuco. Protests continued into the evening with vandalism and bonfires in various parts of the capital, snarling traffic and highlighting the growing wave of discontent.La Polar, a retail chain recently charged with saddling consumers with outrageous interest rates on overdue accounts, was set alight. The torching was widely denounced by protest groups, but was the latest evidence that long dormant Chilean youth are rebelling against the orthodox free market ideology that dominates everyday Chilean life.In recent years, for example, it was common for private hospitals to impose a 100% surcharge for babies born outside business hours. Students have long insisted for-profit universities and schools should receive no government subsidies.The protest movement, organised largely through Facebook and Twitter, has shaken the Chilean political establishment as up to 100,000 students, usually costumed and peaceful, have marched.With a mix of music and fancy dress, the students have used the streets of the capital as a stage for acts ranging from a 3,000- person re-enactmant of Michael Jackson's Thriller dance to a \"besa-thon\", where young couples kissed for hours in front of La Moneda, the presidential palace.For two months hundreds of high schools have been seized by teenage students. Despite warnings from the government that tens of thousands of students would be forced to repeat the entire school year, high schoolers continue to demand an end to for-profit educational institutions, lower interest rates on student loans and a bus pass valid year round.An opinion poll on Thursday put Pi\u00f1era's popularity at 26%. Opposition coalition La Concertacion had an approval rating of just 16% as the range of popular complaints appears to grow daily.One year ago Chile was celebrating its new-found unity and the Pi\u00f1era administration was lauded by the world media for the teamwork used to save 33 trapped copper miners. Today the heroes are the student leaders, including Vallejo, who wields enormous political power.Pi\u00f1era has sacked his education minister and promised billions in new government spending for education in an unsuccesful attempt to quell the protests.After being teargassed on Thursday, Vallejo called on citizens to show support for the striking students by banging pots and pans at 9pm \u2013 a reminder of the call to the streets used in the Pinochet era. Her call spread like wildfire on social networks and led to a night of clanging celebrations, spontaneous street festivals and a national realisation that Chile is living a historical moment, with a movement that cuts across traditional social and class boundaries.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Protest", "Americas"], "title": "Chile student protests explode into violence"},{"date": "2011-08-05T15:30:30Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A year ago, 33 Chilean miners were trapped in a mine in the north of the country. Sixty-nine days later, they were rescued and the president of Chile, Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, was rewarded with a record approval rating. Those days now seem like a distant memory. Pi\u00f1era's stock has fallen, so much so that he has become the most unpopular president since 1990, when democracy was restored in Chile. According to the CEP (Centro de Estudios P\u00fablicos), only 26% of citizens approve of Pi\u00f1era's government, while 53% reject his administration.Rightwing Pi\u00f1era took office in 2010, promising a new way of governing, but he has not been able to fulfil this commitment. Pi\u00f1era travelled around the word after rescuing the miners, showing pride while receiving compliments. Those were happy days, but they were fleeting. A few months later, his popularity dropped. The first negative episode was related to football \u2013 the most popular sport in Chile \u2013 and the resignation of Marcelo Bielsa, the World Cup 2010 national coach. Pi\u00f1era was one of the owners of Colo-Colo, the most important football team in the country. When Bielsa, who was widely admired by Chilean fans, left the country, Colo-Colo's administrators (who were Pi\u00f1era's partners) were blamed for his resignation. Chileans saw a political hand in this operation.This episode is a good example of the conflict of interest issues that Pi\u00f1era has faced since his first day in office. In fact, if Pi\u00f1era had not been the owner of Colo-Colo, the perception would have been different. Indeed, the majority of his ministers and collaborators are former CEOs and important businessmen. Pi\u00f1era was never concerned about the conflicting relationship that exists between business and politics.Pi\u00f1era's administration is bad at handling serious problems; as exemplified in the slow rebuilding process after the disastrous earthquake and tsunami in February 2010 in the south of Chile. The government was not capable of acting promptly and thousands of victims are still waiting for their problems to be solved.Pi\u00f1era's government has tried to modify the negative perceptions with social measures, such as six months of maternity leave and free health insurance for low-income retired people. These measures are similar to those adopted by the previous socialist government led by Michelle Bachelet, but they have received criticism because of their populist characteristics. While Bachelet created a social security network and finished her administration with high levels of citizen approval, Pi\u00f1era has not been able to improve the citizens' assessment of his presidency. Polls show that, despite economic growth and low unemployment, Chileans doubt his leadership, his credibility, and his ability to manage the country. The government is facing its worst period ever, and nothing indicates that this situation will change.Chile is today a more complex country than it was two decades ago, but the current political system does not recognise this. Pi\u00f1era is member of a stubborn elite that continues to control the country as it always has, without recognising that Chileans now live in a completely different context. He believes that Chileans have the same needs that they had during their return to democracy: political stability and public security. However, most citizens want to build a more equal society, with the same opportunities for all.Recent demonstrations and protests have overshadowed his administration. Citizens are going to the streets to demand better education, gay marriage, and the protection of the environment. They're asking for changes in one of the most unequal societies in the world. After 21 years of democratisation, citizens have lost their fear and are in the streets. On Thursday night, massive demonstrations took places in various cities. Students have been mobilising since 12 May and they now have 72% citizen approval, which is almost three times greater than that of the government.", "tags": ["Chile", "Chilean miners rescue", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Why is Pi\u00f1era's government so unpopular in Chile? | Cristian Cabalin"},{"date": "2011-07-21T13:08:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The results of an inquest into the death of Chilean president Salvador Allende during the coup of 1973 has established that the socialist leader committed suicide, bringing to a close a controversial chapter in the history of the Latin American nation.Aside, perhaps, from the death of Ernesto \"Che\" Guevara, no other political death has come to symbolise both the brutality and idealism of the socialist movement in Latin America in the 1960s and 1970s. A physician by profession, Allende was the first openly Marxist politician to win office in Latin America in 1970.A moderate socialist, Allende galvanised and united the Chilean left, and once in power he set out ambitious processes of nationalisation, angering the right wing and raising eyebrows abroad. In September 1973, a coup, led by general Augusto Pinochet overthrew Allende's government, leading to a ruthless military dictatorship that spanned nearly two decades and was responsible for thousands of deaths.Allende died in the presidential home, La Moneda, while it came under attack from Pinochet's army on 11 September, 1973 \u2013 and the cause of his death was immediately ruled as suicide. Allende had killed himself with an AK-47 rifle, a personal gift from Fidel Castro. However, with Allende's words in his last radio transmission of \"Long live Chile! Long live the people! Long live the workers!\" still echoing loudly in Chileans' minds, the official version was immediately repudiated by Allende's sympathisers and family, and more brutal accounts surfaced.For his supporters the image of the president committing suicide never rang true, and a story that he had died fighting to the last became increasingly popular. This account was subsequently captured by Gabriel Garc\u00eda Marqu\u00e9z, who years later wrote in homage: \"Allende died in an interchange of fire with a military patrol. Afterwards, all the officials proceeded in a bloody rite to shoot one bullet each into his body. Finally, an officer destroyed his face with the butt of a rifle.\"And it was that version of events that took hold of the imagination of the Latin American left, creating a martyr out of Allende, whose death came to epitomise the subsequent brutality of Pinochet's regime. That chain of events, however, has now been dismissed by the inquest led by the Chilean government minister Mario Carroza, which included input from experts across a number of different fields and nationalities. The autopsy confirmed Allende committed suicide.Doubtless, the range of contributions to the inquest sought to legitimise its findings and to close the chapter of Allende's death once and for all. Chile's opposition suffered greatly under Pinochet, losing hundreds, if not thousands, to forced disappearances and killings. Pressure has been mounting increasingly since Pinochet left power for ever deeper and more exhaustive investigations into this part of Chilean history. This inquest marks, perhaps, the starting of that process of healing and it was very important that its findings could be seen as legitimate across the board.Allende's daughter, Senator Isabel Allende, has welcome and accepted the findings, stating that her father's memory would still be untarnished since he had decided to take his own life rather than fall into the hands of the rebellious soldiers. It is a sentiment echoed by the Chilean communist party, with their lawyer and spokesperson Eduardo Contreras stating that \"it was important to establish the truth\". He added: \"I will not ignore the other investigations that [minister] Carroza will carry out, this isn't the last word but only a very important first step.\"And this is where the significance of the inquest's findings lies. Now that Allende's suicide has been established beyond all doubt, Carroza's inquest can turn to the deaths of hundreds of political activists under Pinochet's regime, helping the country to come to terms with its past.The first chapter of this story can finally be considered closed, but the end is still far into the future. Chile will need these findings to go deeper and finally find the sense of closure it has been looking for from the events that followed Allende's suicide at La Moneda in September 1973.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile can finally begin the process of healing | Euclides Montes"},{"date": "2011-08-05T18:20:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "It began as a series of peaceful protests calling for reform of the Chilean government's education system, with students staging mass kiss-ins, dressing up in superhero costumes and running laps around the presidential palace. But on Thursday these surreal protests exploded into violence as school and university students clashed with police and seized a TV station, demanding the right to a live broadcast in order to express their demands.The Chilean winter, as it is being called, appears to have captured the public mood, just as the Arab spring did six months ago.After a day of street clashes, 874 people had been arrested and department store in the capital was smouldering after being attacked by protesters. Outrage against the rightwing government of Sebasti\u00e0n Pi\u00f1era boiled over, with polls showing he is more unpopular than any leader since the fall of former dictator Augusto Pinochet.Striking school students led the charge as they tried to march on the presidential palace early on Thursday, only to be thwarted by hundreds of police in riot gear and clouds of teargas. Tucapel Jim\u00e9nez, a member of the Chilean congress, called for sanctions against government authorities who authorised what he called \"brutal repression\" by riot police.\"This is unacceptable, the centre of Santiago is a state of siege,\" said university student leader Camila Vallejo, tears rolling down her face after being doused in teargas. \"The right to congregate has been violated.\"\"I don't see any other solution than a general referendum,\" said Giorgio Jackson, president of the Catholic University student union as he described the distance between student demands and the government offer. \"There are some points of agrement, but clearly there are other points that are very relevant and in which we have grand differences.\" News coverage of students being gassed and hauled off buses by police squads led Vallejo to call for the resignation of Rodrigo Hinzpeter, Chile's interior minister. Government officials insisted the students did not have a permit to march and defended the police reaction as necessary to maintain business as usual in Santiago. Government spokesman Andr\u00e9s Chadwick estimated vandalism damage at $2m.Marches were held in other big cities, including Valpara\u00edso, Concepci\u00f3n and Temuco. Protests continued into the evening with vandalism and bonfires in various parts of the capital, snarling traffic and highlighting the growing wave of discontent.La Polar, a retail chain recently charged with saddling consumers with outrageous interest rates on overdue accounts, was set alight. The torching was widely denounced by protest groups, but was the latest evidence that long dormant Chilean youth are rebelling against the orthodox free market ideology that dominates everyday Chilean life.In recent years, for example, it was common for private hospitals to impose a 100% surcharge for babies born outside business hours. Students have long insisted for-profit universities and schools should receive no government subsidies.The protest movement, organised largely through Facebook and Twitter, has shaken the Chilean political establishment as up to 100,000 students, usually costumed and peaceful, have marched.With a mix of music and fancy dress, the students have used the streets of the capital as a stage for acts ranging from a 3,000- person re-enactmant of Michael Jackson's Thriller dance to a \"besa-thon\", where young couples kissed for hours in front of La Moneda, the presidential palace.For two months hundreds of high schools have been seized by teenage students. Despite warnings from the government that tens of thousands of students would be forced to repeat the entire school year, high schoolers continue to demand an end to for-profit educational institutions, lower interest rates on student loans and a bus pass valid year round.An opinion poll on Thursday put Pi\u00f1era's popularity at 26%. Opposition coalition La Concertacion had an approval rating of just 16% as the range of popular complaints appears to grow daily.One year ago Chile was celebrating its new-found unity and the Pi\u00f1era administration was lauded by the world media for the teamwork used to save 33 trapped copper miners. Today the heroes are the student leaders, including Vallejo, who wields enormous political power.Pi\u00f1era has sacked his education minister and promised billions in new government spending for education in an unsuccesful attempt to quell the protests.After being teargassed on Thursday, Vallejo called on citizens to show support for the striking students by banging pots and pans at 9pm \u2013 a reminder of the call to the streets used in the Pinochet era. Her call spread like wildfire on social networks and led to a night of clanging celebrations, spontaneous street festivals and a national realisation that Chile is living a historical moment, with a movement that cuts across traditional social and class boundaries.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Protest", "Americas"], "title": "Chile student protests explode into violence"},{"date": "2011-08-05T15:30:30Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A year ago, 33 Chilean miners were trapped in a mine in the north of the country. Sixty-nine days later, they were rescued and the president of Chile, Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, was rewarded with a record approval rating. Those days now seem like a distant memory. Pi\u00f1era's stock has fallen, so much so that he has become the most unpopular president since 1990, when democracy was restored in Chile. According to the CEP (Centro de Estudios P\u00fablicos), only 26% of citizens approve of Pi\u00f1era's government, while 53% reject his administration.Rightwing Pi\u00f1era took office in 2010, promising a new way of governing, but he has not been able to fulfil this commitment. Pi\u00f1era travelled around the word after rescuing the miners, showing pride while receiving compliments. Those were happy days, but they were fleeting. A few months later, his popularity dropped. The first negative episode was related to football \u2013 the most popular sport in Chile \u2013 and the resignation of Marcelo Bielsa, the World Cup 2010 national coach. Pi\u00f1era was one of the owners of Colo-Colo, the most important football team in the country. When Bielsa, who was widely admired by Chilean fans, left the country, Colo-Colo's administrators (who were Pi\u00f1era's partners) were blamed for his resignation. Chileans saw a political hand in this operation.This episode is a good example of the conflict of interest issues that Pi\u00f1era has faced since his first day in office. In fact, if Pi\u00f1era had not been the owner of Colo-Colo, the perception would have been different. Indeed, the majority of his ministers and collaborators are former CEOs and important businessmen. Pi\u00f1era was never concerned about the conflicting relationship that exists between business and politics.Pi\u00f1era's administration is bad at handling serious problems; as exemplified in the slow rebuilding process after the disastrous earthquake and tsunami in February 2010 in the south of Chile. The government was not capable of acting promptly and thousands of victims are still waiting for their problems to be solved.Pi\u00f1era's government has tried to modify the negative perceptions with social measures, such as six months of maternity leave and free health insurance for low-income retired people. These measures are similar to those adopted by the previous socialist government led by Michelle Bachelet, but they have received criticism because of their populist characteristics. While Bachelet created a social security network and finished her administration with high levels of citizen approval, Pi\u00f1era has not been able to improve the citizens' assessment of his presidency. Polls show that, despite economic growth and low unemployment, Chileans doubt his leadership, his credibility, and his ability to manage the country. The government is facing its worst period ever, and nothing indicates that this situation will change.Chile is today a more complex country than it was two decades ago, but the current political system does not recognise this. Pi\u00f1era is member of a stubborn elite that continues to control the country as it always has, without recognising that Chileans now live in a completely different context. He believes that Chileans have the same needs that they had during their return to democracy: political stability and public security. However, most citizens want to build a more equal society, with the same opportunities for all.Recent demonstrations and protests have overshadowed his administration. Citizens are going to the streets to demand better education, gay marriage, and the protection of the environment. They're asking for changes in one of the most unequal societies in the world. After 21 years of democratisation, citizens have lost their fear and are in the streets. On Thursday night, massive demonstrations took places in various cities. Students have been mobilising since 12 May and they now have 72% citizen approval, which is almost three times greater than that of the government.", "tags": ["Chile", "Chilean miners rescue", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Why is Pi\u00f1era's government so unpopular in Chile? | Cristian Cabalin"},{"date": "2011-07-21T13:08:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The results of an inquest into the death of Chilean president Salvador Allende during the coup of 1973 has established that the socialist leader committed suicide, bringing to a close a controversial chapter in the history of the Latin American nation.Aside, perhaps, from the death of Ernesto \"Che\" Guevara, no other political death has come to symbolise both the brutality and idealism of the socialist movement in Latin America in the 1960s and 1970s. A physician by profession, Allende was the first openly Marxist politician to win office in Latin America in 1970.A moderate socialist, Allende galvanised and united the Chilean left, and once in power he set out ambitious processes of nationalisation, angering the right wing and raising eyebrows abroad. In September 1973, a coup, led by general Augusto Pinochet overthrew Allende's government, leading to a ruthless military dictatorship that spanned nearly two decades and was responsible for thousands of deaths.Allende died in the presidential home, La Moneda, while it came under attack from Pinochet's army on 11 September, 1973 \u2013 and the cause of his death was immediately ruled as suicide. Allende had killed himself with an AK-47 rifle, a personal gift from Fidel Castro. However, with Allende's words in his last radio transmission of \"Long live Chile! Long live the people! Long live the workers!\" still echoing loudly in Chileans' minds, the official version was immediately repudiated by Allende's sympathisers and family, and more brutal accounts surfaced.For his supporters the image of the president committing suicide never rang true, and a story that he had died fighting to the last became increasingly popular. This account was subsequently captured by Gabriel Garc\u00eda Marqu\u00e9z, who years later wrote in homage: \"Allende died in an interchange of fire with a military patrol. Afterwards, all the officials proceeded in a bloody rite to shoot one bullet each into his body. Finally, an officer destroyed his face with the butt of a rifle.\"And it was that version of events that took hold of the imagination of the Latin American left, creating a martyr out of Allende, whose death came to epitomise the subsequent brutality of Pinochet's regime. That chain of events, however, has now been dismissed by the inquest led by the Chilean government minister Mario Carroza, which included input from experts across a number of different fields and nationalities. The autopsy confirmed Allende committed suicide.Doubtless, the range of contributions to the inquest sought to legitimise its findings and to close the chapter of Allende's death once and for all. Chile's opposition suffered greatly under Pinochet, losing hundreds, if not thousands, to forced disappearances and killings. Pressure has been mounting increasingly since Pinochet left power for ever deeper and more exhaustive investigations into this part of Chilean history. This inquest marks, perhaps, the starting of that process of healing and it was very important that its findings could be seen as legitimate across the board.Allende's daughter, Senator Isabel Allende, has welcome and accepted the findings, stating that her father's memory would still be untarnished since he had decided to take his own life rather than fall into the hands of the rebellious soldiers. It is a sentiment echoed by the Chilean communist party, with their lawyer and spokesperson Eduardo Contreras stating that \"it was important to establish the truth\". He added: \"I will not ignore the other investigations that [minister] Carroza will carry out, this isn't the last word but only a very important first step.\"And this is where the significance of the inquest's findings lies. Now that Allende's suicide has been established beyond all doubt, Carroza's inquest can turn to the deaths of hundreds of political activists under Pinochet's regime, helping the country to come to terms with its past.The first chapter of this story can finally be considered closed, but the end is still far into the future. Chile will need these findings to go deeper and finally find the sense of closure it has been looking for from the events that followed Allende's suicide at La Moneda in September 1973.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile can finally begin the process of healing | Euclides Montes"},{"date": "2011-08-15T16:52:51Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Iranian media affiliated to the Islamic regime have been accused of using library images from different times and locations in Britain and other parts of the world to portray the UK riots as \"the uprising of the oppressed against the British monarchy\".Soon after the rioting broke out, the Iranian regime seized on the unrest to get back at the British government by condemning what it described as \"the violent suppression of the political opposition and the oppressed\".But in recent days Iran's online community and blogosphere have shown that pictures published in the regime's news agencies and daily newspapers were taken at different times and places.Most were published by the semi-official Fars news agency, whose paymasters are the elite revolutionary guards, and Keyhan newspaper, which is under the direct control of the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.Pictures provided by Fars are widely used in other media groups across Iran.An Iranian who blogs under the name Gomnamian has devoted significant time to demonstrating where some of the pictures used by Fars were published beforehand. Fars deleted some pictures once word spread across the web.Among the pictures is a one of a man whose face is covered in blood, which the Daily Mail had published in September 2010 alongside a story about security plans ahead of a football match between Manchester United and Rangers.Another photo used by Fars was taken from a 2009 London protest in support of the Palestinians.One appeared to be from Chile, and featured a road sign in Spanish.One image showed a street full of police but was actually taken at the Notting Hill carnival in 2008.A picture showing police on horseback was from the miners' strike in 1984.In reaction to the regime's schadenfreude over the UK riots, the top British diplomat in Tehran, Jane Marriott, wrote a letter to Iran's foreign ministry saying Britain would be happy to talk about human rights. \"I would remind you that the UK has a standing invitation to all UN special rapporteurs and has facilitated the visits of a number of these rapporteurs to the UK in recent years,\" she wrote in the letter.\"I urge the Iranian government to extend a similar courtesy to the dedicated UN special rapporteur for the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ahmed Shaheed, to enable him to address the international community's grave concerns about ongoing human rights violations within Iran.\"Iran announced in July that it would not permit the UN special rapporteur assigned with investigating its record of human rights to enter the country.Iran's opposition has attacked the regime for its portrayal of the UK riots, saying it is deliberately making them appear to be protests against the British monarchy as a tit for tat against the UK government for its criticism of human rights violations in Iran over the past years.\u2022 This article was amended on 16 August 2011. A link to a photograph of British police tackling protesters in London suggested it was in Washington. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Iran", "Monarchy", "UK riots 2011", "The miners' strike 1984-85", "Media", "Crime"], "title": "UK riots: Iran media left red-faced over British 'anti-monarchy uprising'"},{"date": "2011-08-05T18:20:09Z", "country": "chile", "content": "It began as a series of peaceful protests calling for reform of the Chilean government's education system, with students staging mass kiss-ins, dressing up in superhero costumes and running laps around the presidential palace. But on Thursday these surreal protests exploded into violence as school and university students clashed with police and seized a TV station, demanding the right to a live broadcast in order to express their demands.The Chilean winter, as it is being called, appears to have captured the public mood, just as the Arab spring did six months ago.After a day of street clashes, 874 people had been arrested and department store in the capital was smouldering after being attacked by protesters. Outrage against the rightwing government of Sebasti\u00e0n Pi\u00f1era boiled over, with polls showing he is more unpopular than any leader since the fall of former dictator Augusto Pinochet.Striking school students led the charge as they tried to march on the presidential palace early on Thursday, only to be thwarted by hundreds of police in riot gear and clouds of teargas. Tucapel Jim\u00e9nez, a member of the Chilean congress, called for sanctions against government authorities who authorised what he called \"brutal repression\" by riot police.\"This is unacceptable, the centre of Santiago is a state of siege,\" said university student leader Camila Vallejo, tears rolling down her face after being doused in teargas. \"The right to congregate has been violated.\"\"I don't see any other solution than a general referendum,\" said Giorgio Jackson, president of the Catholic University student union as he described the distance between student demands and the government offer. \"There are some points of agrement, but clearly there are other points that are very relevant and in which we have grand differences.\" News coverage of students being gassed and hauled off buses by police squads led Vallejo to call for the resignation of Rodrigo Hinzpeter, Chile's interior minister. Government officials insisted the students did not have a permit to march and defended the police reaction as necessary to maintain business as usual in Santiago. Government spokesman Andr\u00e9s Chadwick estimated vandalism damage at $2m.Marches were held in other big cities, including Valpara\u00edso, Concepci\u00f3n and Temuco. Protests continued into the evening with vandalism and bonfires in various parts of the capital, snarling traffic and highlighting the growing wave of discontent.La Polar, a retail chain recently charged with saddling consumers with outrageous interest rates on overdue accounts, was set alight. The torching was widely denounced by protest groups, but was the latest evidence that long dormant Chilean youth are rebelling against the orthodox free market ideology that dominates everyday Chilean life.In recent years, for example, it was common for private hospitals to impose a 100% surcharge for babies born outside business hours. Students have long insisted for-profit universities and schools should receive no government subsidies.The protest movement, organised largely through Facebook and Twitter, has shaken the Chilean political establishment as up to 100,000 students, usually costumed and peaceful, have marched.With a mix of music and fancy dress, the students have used the streets of the capital as a stage for acts ranging from a 3,000- person re-enactmant of Michael Jackson's Thriller dance to a \"besa-thon\", where young couples kissed for hours in front of La Moneda, the presidential palace.For two months hundreds of high schools have been seized by teenage students. Despite warnings from the government that tens of thousands of students would be forced to repeat the entire school year, high schoolers continue to demand an end to for-profit educational institutions, lower interest rates on student loans and a bus pass valid year round.An opinion poll on Thursday put Pi\u00f1era's popularity at 26%. Opposition coalition La Concertacion had an approval rating of just 16% as the range of popular complaints appears to grow daily.One year ago Chile was celebrating its new-found unity and the Pi\u00f1era administration was lauded by the world media for the teamwork used to save 33 trapped copper miners. Today the heroes are the student leaders, including Vallejo, who wields enormous political power.Pi\u00f1era has sacked his education minister and promised billions in new government spending for education in an unsuccesful attempt to quell the protests.After being teargassed on Thursday, Vallejo called on citizens to show support for the striking students by banging pots and pans at 9pm \u2013 a reminder of the call to the streets used in the Pinochet era. Her call spread like wildfire on social networks and led to a night of clanging celebrations, spontaneous street festivals and a national realisation that Chile is living a historical moment, with a movement that cuts across traditional social and class boundaries.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Protest", "Americas"], "title": "Chile student protests explode into violence"},{"date": "2011-08-05T15:30:30Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A year ago, 33 Chilean miners were trapped in a mine in the north of the country. Sixty-nine days later, they were rescued and the president of Chile, Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, was rewarded with a record approval rating. Those days now seem like a distant memory. Pi\u00f1era's stock has fallen, so much so that he has become the most unpopular president since 1990, when democracy was restored in Chile. According to the CEP (Centro de Estudios P\u00fablicos), only 26% of citizens approve of Pi\u00f1era's government, while 53% reject his administration.Rightwing Pi\u00f1era took office in 2010, promising a new way of governing, but he has not been able to fulfil this commitment. Pi\u00f1era travelled around the word after rescuing the miners, showing pride while receiving compliments. Those were happy days, but they were fleeting. A few months later, his popularity dropped. The first negative episode was related to football \u2013 the most popular sport in Chile \u2013 and the resignation of Marcelo Bielsa, the World Cup 2010 national coach. Pi\u00f1era was one of the owners of Colo-Colo, the most important football team in the country. When Bielsa, who was widely admired by Chilean fans, left the country, Colo-Colo's administrators (who were Pi\u00f1era's partners) were blamed for his resignation. Chileans saw a political hand in this operation.This episode is a good example of the conflict of interest issues that Pi\u00f1era has faced since his first day in office. In fact, if Pi\u00f1era had not been the owner of Colo-Colo, the perception would have been different. Indeed, the majority of his ministers and collaborators are former CEOs and important businessmen. Pi\u00f1era was never concerned about the conflicting relationship that exists between business and politics.Pi\u00f1era's administration is bad at handling serious problems; as exemplified in the slow rebuilding process after the disastrous earthquake and tsunami in February 2010 in the south of Chile. The government was not capable of acting promptly and thousands of victims are still waiting for their problems to be solved.Pi\u00f1era's government has tried to modify the negative perceptions with social measures, such as six months of maternity leave and free health insurance for low-income retired people. These measures are similar to those adopted by the previous socialist government led by Michelle Bachelet, but they have received criticism because of their populist characteristics. While Bachelet created a social security network and finished her administration with high levels of citizen approval, Pi\u00f1era has not been able to improve the citizens' assessment of his presidency. Polls show that, despite economic growth and low unemployment, Chileans doubt his leadership, his credibility, and his ability to manage the country. The government is facing its worst period ever, and nothing indicates that this situation will change.Chile is today a more complex country than it was two decades ago, but the current political system does not recognise this. Pi\u00f1era is member of a stubborn elite that continues to control the country as it always has, without recognising that Chileans now live in a completely different context. He believes that Chileans have the same needs that they had during their return to democracy: political stability and public security. However, most citizens want to build a more equal society, with the same opportunities for all.Recent demonstrations and protests have overshadowed his administration. Citizens are going to the streets to demand better education, gay marriage, and the protection of the environment. They're asking for changes in one of the most unequal societies in the world. After 21 years of democratisation, citizens have lost their fear and are in the streets. On Thursday night, massive demonstrations took places in various cities. Students have been mobilising since 12 May and they now have 72% citizen approval, which is almost three times greater than that of the government.", "tags": ["Chile", "Chilean miners rescue", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Why is Pi\u00f1era's government so unpopular in Chile? | Cristian Cabalin"},{"date": "2011-07-21T13:08:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The results of an inquest into the death of Chilean president Salvador Allende during the coup of 1973 has established that the socialist leader committed suicide, bringing to a close a controversial chapter in the history of the Latin American nation.Aside, perhaps, from the death of Ernesto \"Che\" Guevara, no other political death has come to symbolise both the brutality and idealism of the socialist movement in Latin America in the 1960s and 1970s. A physician by profession, Allende was the first openly Marxist politician to win office in Latin America in 1970.A moderate socialist, Allende galvanised and united the Chilean left, and once in power he set out ambitious processes of nationalisation, angering the right wing and raising eyebrows abroad. In September 1973, a coup, led by general Augusto Pinochet overthrew Allende's government, leading to a ruthless military dictatorship that spanned nearly two decades and was responsible for thousands of deaths.Allende died in the presidential home, La Moneda, while it came under attack from Pinochet's army on 11 September, 1973 \u2013 and the cause of his death was immediately ruled as suicide. Allende had killed himself with an AK-47 rifle, a personal gift from Fidel Castro. However, with Allende's words in his last radio transmission of \"Long live Chile! Long live the people! Long live the workers!\" still echoing loudly in Chileans' minds, the official version was immediately repudiated by Allende's sympathisers and family, and more brutal accounts surfaced.For his supporters the image of the president committing suicide never rang true, and a story that he had died fighting to the last became increasingly popular. This account was subsequently captured by Gabriel Garc\u00eda Marqu\u00e9z, who years later wrote in homage: \"Allende died in an interchange of fire with a military patrol. Afterwards, all the officials proceeded in a bloody rite to shoot one bullet each into his body. Finally, an officer destroyed his face with the butt of a rifle.\"And it was that version of events that took hold of the imagination of the Latin American left, creating a martyr out of Allende, whose death came to epitomise the subsequent brutality of Pinochet's regime. That chain of events, however, has now been dismissed by the inquest led by the Chilean government minister Mario Carroza, which included input from experts across a number of different fields and nationalities. The autopsy confirmed Allende committed suicide.Doubtless, the range of contributions to the inquest sought to legitimise its findings and to close the chapter of Allende's death once and for all. Chile's opposition suffered greatly under Pinochet, losing hundreds, if not thousands, to forced disappearances and killings. Pressure has been mounting increasingly since Pinochet left power for ever deeper and more exhaustive investigations into this part of Chilean history. This inquest marks, perhaps, the starting of that process of healing and it was very important that its findings could be seen as legitimate across the board.Allende's daughter, Senator Isabel Allende, has welcome and accepted the findings, stating that her father's memory would still be untarnished since he had decided to take his own life rather than fall into the hands of the rebellious soldiers. It is a sentiment echoed by the Chilean communist party, with their lawyer and spokesperson Eduardo Contreras stating that \"it was important to establish the truth\". He added: \"I will not ignore the other investigations that [minister] Carroza will carry out, this isn't the last word but only a very important first step.\"And this is where the significance of the inquest's findings lies. Now that Allende's suicide has been established beyond all doubt, Carroza's inquest can turn to the deaths of hundreds of political activists under Pinochet's regime, helping the country to come to terms with its past.The first chapter of this story can finally be considered closed, but the end is still far into the future. Chile will need these findings to go deeper and finally find the sense of closure it has been looking for from the events that followed Allende's suicide at La Moneda in September 1973.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Chile can finally begin the process of healing | Euclides Montes"},{"date": "2011-08-15T16:52:51Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Iranian media affiliated to the Islamic regime have been accused of using library images from different times and locations in Britain and other parts of the world to portray the UK riots as \"the uprising of the oppressed against the British monarchy\".Soon after the rioting broke out, the Iranian regime seized on the unrest to get back at the British government by condemning what it described as \"the violent suppression of the political opposition and the oppressed\".But in recent days Iran's online community and blogosphere have shown that pictures published in the regime's news agencies and daily newspapers were taken at different times and places.Most were published by the semi-official Fars news agency, whose paymasters are the elite revolutionary guards, and Keyhan newspaper, which is under the direct control of the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei.Pictures provided by Fars are widely used in other media groups across Iran.An Iranian who blogs under the name Gomnamian has devoted significant time to demonstrating where some of the pictures used by Fars were published beforehand. Fars deleted some pictures once word spread across the web.Among the pictures is a one of a man whose face is covered in blood, which the Daily Mail had published in September 2010 alongside a story about security plans ahead of a football match between Manchester United and Rangers.Another photo used by Fars was taken from a 2009 London protest in support of the Palestinians.One appeared to be from Chile, and featured a road sign in Spanish.One image showed a street full of police but was actually taken at the Notting Hill carnival in 2008.A picture showing police on horseback was from the miners' strike in 1984.In reaction to the regime's schadenfreude over the UK riots, the top British diplomat in Tehran, Jane Marriott, wrote a letter to Iran's foreign ministry saying Britain would be happy to talk about human rights. \"I would remind you that the UK has a standing invitation to all UN special rapporteurs and has facilitated the visits of a number of these rapporteurs to the UK in recent years,\" she wrote in the letter.\"I urge the Iranian government to extend a similar courtesy to the dedicated UN special rapporteur for the Islamic Republic of Iran, Ahmed Shaheed, to enable him to address the international community's grave concerns about ongoing human rights violations within Iran.\"Iran announced in July that it would not permit the UN special rapporteur assigned with investigating its record of human rights to enter the country.Iran's opposition has attacked the regime for its portrayal of the UK riots, saying it is deliberately making them appear to be protests against the British monarchy as a tit for tat against the UK government for its criticism of human rights violations in Iran over the past years.\u2022 This article was amended on 16 August 2011. A link to a photograph of British police tackling protesters in London suggested it was in Washington. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["Iran", "Monarchy", "UK riots 2011", "The miners' strike 1984-85", "Media", "Crime"], "title": "UK riots: Iran media left red-faced over British 'anti-monarchy uprising'"},{"date": "2011-08-11T14:14:48Z", "country": "chile", "content": "With riots and looting in British cities, student protests in Chile, the central role of young people in the Arab spring, youth involvement in anti-austerity protests in Spain and growing frustration over gloomy employment prospects in Greece, youth discontent has grabbed headlines across the globe.What needs to happen to address the challenges affecting the world's youth? What is the role of young people and youth-led organisations in tackling these challenges? And with similar issues facing both the north and the south, how do these problems change the way we think about development projects and priorities?This August marks the end of the United Nations' first international year of youth, aimed at putting young people at the very centre of international debates and encouraging their participation in global development efforts. And Friday is international youth day, with over 300 events planned worldwide. But beyond the media headlines focusing on youth, has the international community paid enough attention to the economic and social challenges facing teenagers globally?This month, we travelled to Egypt to look at the challenge of youth unemployment and learn more about a project designed to ease the transition from school to work by plugging the skills gaps of new graduates.And earlier this year, we reviewed Unicef's State of the World's Children report, which argued that much of the progress towards meeting the millennium development goals (MDGs) will be compromised unless attention turns to focus on the world's 1.2 billion 10- to 19-year-olds. \"In the global effort to save children's lives, we hear too little about adolescence,\" said Anthony Lake, Unicef's new executive director. \"Surely we do not want to save children in their first decade of life only to lose them in the second.\"Meanwhile, Harvard professor Calestous Juma argued that lowering the voting age to 16 in African countries would help young people's voices to be heard:Over 40% of the [African] population are under the age of 15. More than 20% are between the ages of 15 and 24. Three out of five of Africa's employed are young people, according to the International Labour Office. Young people account for 36% of the overall working age population ... Lowering the voting age to 16 for all African countries would not only reflect the demographic structure of the continent, but it would also expand political participation.Is Juma right? What needs to be done to tackle youth unemployment? What examples have you seen of interesting development projects tackling issues that affect teenagers? And does the current news agenda \u2013 streaming coverage of worldwide youth disaffection \u2013 reflect a failure of development?Let us know what you think. If you have any problems posting a comment, or if you would prefer to comment anonymously, email us at development@guardian.co.uk and we'll add your thoughts to the debate.", "tags": ["Global development", "Youth justice", "Young people", "Society", "World news"], "title": "Talk Point: what does worldwide youth discontent reflect?"},{"date": "2011-12-05T13:52:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We return from our Argentine adventure with a stack of recommendations \u2013 from yago, hymning Leopoldo Marechal's mythical transformation of the Argentinian capital in Ad\u00e1n Buenosayres, to gregory pekerman, hailing Cecilia Szperling's Natural Selection as a \"genuinely shocking\" portrait of \"wild young thrill-seekers \u2013 both men and women \u2013 as they wander through the subterranean nightlife of Buenos Aires\".Nilpferd saluted a master of fiction in another mode, calling Borges's Selected Non-Fictions \"a wonderful collection of essays from the world's most knowledgeable librarian\". Dyon suggested that the Danish immigrant Andreas Madsen's Patagonia Vieja \"may help understanding the cold solitude of Patagonia\", as well as the country's \"strange European mix\", while Aberdeen Swan wondered if the reason Manuel Puig's Kiss of the Spider Woman isn't better known was that \"Puig so clearly did not fit the mould of the macho New Latin American Novelist\". But the author who kept coming up again and again was Julio Cort\u00e1zar, with c. schroder leading the chorus of praise for his \"hypertext before hypertexts existed\", Hopscotch. Pia.Ayres envies those of us who \"haven't read it yet because they have the opportunity to be surprised by this fantastic book\", while bc25 suggests it's like jazz, with the story of an expatriate Argentinian in Paris as a standard \u2013 \"and a good one at that\" \u2013 while an alternative reading \"provides a series of riffs and elaborations on the major themes\". Davidseaman plumped for Cort\u00e1zar as well, though he cited a collection of short stories containing \"at least three genuinely great stories: 'Axlotl', 'Continuity of Parks', and 'Blow-Up'\" - neatly bringing us on the discussion of the short story which went on in the comments below. After a blizzard of mentions for short fiction, Nilpferd cautiously suggested that it may have simply been \"a favoured mode of expression\" for \"Borges and his circle\", though wondered if the tango might be in some way responsible. MexicanAl noted that the short story is equally important in other parts of Latin America, and speculated that this demand was driven by literary journals such as Sur.With the Tour heading for South America for the third month in a row, perhaps we can shed a little more light on the place of short fiction in Latin American letters. After edging out Uruguay by nine votes to eight, this month we're hopping across the Argentinian border to Chile. The \"pa\u00eds de poetas\" gave us the first Latin American Nobel literature laureate in 1945, Gabriela Mistral, and received another nod from the Swedish Academy in 1971 with Pablo Neruda, the swooping lines of whose poetry are matched by the drama of his dizzying personal life.The novel is also strong in Chile, from Isabel Allende's bestselling magical realism to Roberto Bola\u00f1o, who briefly became the hottest writer in New York a couple of years after his death from liver failure in 2003. But where to start with Neruda's gargantuan oeuvre, and what are we to make of Harold Bloom's enthusiasm for Jos\u00e9 Donoso? Should we be examining the literary effects of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship, or looking into the origins of creacionismo? And, ahem, what about the short story?As ever, we're looking for books which illuminate the Chilean experience \u2013 poetry of course, as well as fiction short and long, plays and non-fiction \u2013 whether already available in English or yet to be translated. We'd also like to hear about writers from elsewhere who've captured something of Chile. All you need to do is visit the boxes below, filling in the country \u2013 this month that's Chile \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why it's great. But don't forget to add your votes for the tour's next destination \u2013 your votes still count even if, like me, you haven't got a favourite Chilean writer on your shelves. Who knows, we might even make it out of South America \u2026", "tags": ["Fiction", "Poetry", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Chile"},{"date": "2011-12-05T13:52:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We return from our Argentine adventure with a stack of recommendations \u2013 from yago, hymning Leopoldo Marechal's mythical transformation of the Argentinian capital in Ad\u00e1n Buenosayres, to gregory pekerman, hailing Cecilia Szperling's Natural Selection as a \"genuinely shocking\" portrait of \"wild young thrill-seekers \u2013 both men and women \u2013 as they wander through the subterranean nightlife of Buenos Aires\".Nilpferd saluted a master of fiction in another mode, calling Borges's Selected Non-Fictions \"a wonderful collection of essays from the world's most knowledgeable librarian\". Dyon suggested that the Danish immigrant Andreas Madsen's Patagonia Vieja \"may help understanding the cold solitude of Patagonia\", as well as the country's \"strange European mix\", while Aberdeen Swan wondered if the reason Manuel Puig's Kiss of the Spider Woman isn't better known was that \"Puig so clearly did not fit the mould of the macho New Latin American Novelist\". But the author who kept coming up again and again was Julio Cort\u00e1zar, with c. schroder leading the chorus of praise for his \"hypertext before hypertexts existed\", Hopscotch. Pia.Ayres envies those of us who \"haven't read it yet because they have the opportunity to be surprised by this fantastic book\", while bc25 suggests it's like jazz, with the story of an expatriate Argentinian in Paris as a standard \u2013 \"and a good one at that\" \u2013 while an alternative reading \"provides a series of riffs and elaborations on the major themes\". Davidseaman plumped for Cort\u00e1zar as well, though he cited a collection of short stories containing \"at least three genuinely great stories: 'Axlotl', 'Continuity of Parks', and 'Blow-Up'\" - neatly bringing us on the discussion of the short story which went on in the comments below. After a blizzard of mentions for short fiction, Nilpferd cautiously suggested that it may have simply been \"a favoured mode of expression\" for \"Borges and his circle\", though wondered if the tango might be in some way responsible. MexicanAl noted that the short story is equally important in other parts of Latin America, and speculated that this demand was driven by literary journals such as Sur.With the Tour heading for South America for the third month in a row, perhaps we can shed a little more light on the place of short fiction in Latin American letters. After edging out Uruguay by nine votes to eight, this month we're hopping across the Argentinian border to Chile. The \"pa\u00eds de poetas\" gave us the first Latin American Nobel literature laureate in 1945, Gabriela Mistral, and received another nod from the Swedish Academy in 1971 with Pablo Neruda, the swooping lines of whose poetry are matched by the drama of his dizzying personal life.The novel is also strong in Chile, from Isabel Allende's bestselling magical realism to Roberto Bola\u00f1o, who briefly became the hottest writer in New York a couple of years after his death from liver failure in 2003. But where to start with Neruda's gargantuan oeuvre, and what are we to make of Harold Bloom's enthusiasm for Jos\u00e9 Donoso? Should we be examining the literary effects of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship, or looking into the origins of creacionismo? And, ahem, what about the short story?As ever, we're looking for books which illuminate the Chilean experience \u2013 poetry of course, as well as fiction short and long, plays and non-fiction \u2013 whether already available in English or yet to be translated. We'd also like to hear about writers from elsewhere who've captured something of Chile. All you need to do is visit the boxes below, filling in the country \u2013 this month that's Chile \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why it's great. But don't forget to add your votes for the tour's next destination \u2013 your votes still count even if, like me, you haven't got a favourite Chilean writer on your shelves. Who knows, we might even make it out of South America \u2026", "tags": ["Fiction", "Poetry", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Chile"},{"date": "2011-11-10T09:32:44Z", "country": "chile", "content": "As the market searches for direction amid continuing fears about the next eurozone country to face a crisis following Greece and Italy, there were contrasting fortunes for two of the major mining companies.Anglo American has added 70p to \u00a324.23 after it confirmed the sale of a 24.5% stake in its southern Chilean projects to Japan's Mitsubishi for $5.39bn. However there could be problems with Chile's Codelco, which wanted to exercise an option to buy a 49% shareholding in Anglo's assets in the country. It was already making unhappy noises about the Mitsubishi deal and talking of possible legal action. But Dominic O'Kane at Liberum Capital said the deal - which valued Anglo's Chilean assets at around $22bn - was a clever one:Almost a week ago Anglo agreed to pay $5.1bn to buy South Africa's Oppenheimer family out of De Beers and take control of the diamond company. At the time there was speculation it could use the Chilean money to help fund the deal.Meanwhile Vedanta Resources is down 61p to \u00a311.89 after its half year figures. Headline earnings at the Indian mining group rose by 27% but underlying profits dropped 34% to $186.3m, partly due to aluminum losses, rising costs and the depreciation of the rupee.Initially the UK market followed Wall Street and Asia sharply lower, but has since recovered some poise, with the FTSE 100 now down 26.36 points at 5434.02 after falling as low as 5360.The focus is again on Greece - where once more we await news of a new prime minister - and Italy - where ditto. The latter's bond yields have eased slightly but remain over the danger level of 7%. Worryingly, Spanish yields are edging up and are not far away from 6%, as investors worry about the damage to the rest of the eurozone if Italy's problems cannot be contained. Talk of a two tier euro if Italy cannot be saved is adding to the uncertainty. An Italian bond auction later will be widely watched.There is also speculation the European Central Bank may be forced to act, perhaps by increasing its bond buying programme, issuing a statement of support or countenancing an emergency interest rate cut.Meanwhile the outcome of the latest Bank of England meeting is due a midday, where investors await to see whether it will authorise further quantitative easing in the light of the growing European turmoil. Simon Denham at Capital Spreads said:Kathleen Brooks at Forex.com said:Back with the FTSE 100, Experian is the leading riser, up 26.5p to 810.5p as the credit information specialist unveiled a better than expected 20% rise in first half profits.But Admiral fell another 40p to 847.5 in the wake of the car insurer's profit warning on Wednesday.Among the mid-caps Homeserve recovered some ground after its recent plunge following misselling worries and fears of compensation claims. Its shares rose 31.3p to 249.8p as it said its priority was to tackle the problems it had encountered and was in \"constructive and regular\" dialogue with the Financial Services Authority.", "tags": ["Business", "Anglo American", "Vedanta Resources", "Experian", "Admiral", "Homeserve"], "title": "Markets remain nervous on European woes, while Anglo Amercan rises on Chile deal"},{"date": "2011-12-05T13:52:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We return from our Argentine adventure with a stack of recommendations \u2013 from yago, hymning Leopoldo Marechal's mythical transformation of the Argentinian capital in Ad\u00e1n Buenosayres, to gregory pekerman, hailing Cecilia Szperling's Natural Selection as a \"genuinely shocking\" portrait of \"wild young thrill-seekers \u2013 both men and women \u2013 as they wander through the subterranean nightlife of Buenos Aires\".Nilpferd saluted a master of fiction in another mode, calling Borges's Selected Non-Fictions \"a wonderful collection of essays from the world's most knowledgeable librarian\". Dyon suggested that the Danish immigrant Andreas Madsen's Patagonia Vieja \"may help understanding the cold solitude of Patagonia\", as well as the country's \"strange European mix\", while Aberdeen Swan wondered if the reason Manuel Puig's Kiss of the Spider Woman isn't better known was that \"Puig so clearly did not fit the mould of the macho New Latin American Novelist\". But the author who kept coming up again and again was Julio Cort\u00e1zar, with c. schroder leading the chorus of praise for his \"hypertext before hypertexts existed\", Hopscotch. Pia.Ayres envies those of us who \"haven't read it yet because they have the opportunity to be surprised by this fantastic book\", while bc25 suggests it's like jazz, with the story of an expatriate Argentinian in Paris as a standard \u2013 \"and a good one at that\" \u2013 while an alternative reading \"provides a series of riffs and elaborations on the major themes\". Davidseaman plumped for Cort\u00e1zar as well, though he cited a collection of short stories containing \"at least three genuinely great stories: 'Axlotl', 'Continuity of Parks', and 'Blow-Up'\" - neatly bringing us on the discussion of the short story which went on in the comments below. After a blizzard of mentions for short fiction, Nilpferd cautiously suggested that it may have simply been \"a favoured mode of expression\" for \"Borges and his circle\", though wondered if the tango might be in some way responsible. MexicanAl noted that the short story is equally important in other parts of Latin America, and speculated that this demand was driven by literary journals such as Sur.With the Tour heading for South America for the third month in a row, perhaps we can shed a little more light on the place of short fiction in Latin American letters. After edging out Uruguay by nine votes to eight, this month we're hopping across the Argentinian border to Chile. The \"pa\u00eds de poetas\" gave us the first Latin American Nobel literature laureate in 1945, Gabriela Mistral, and received another nod from the Swedish Academy in 1971 with Pablo Neruda, the swooping lines of whose poetry are matched by the drama of his dizzying personal life.The novel is also strong in Chile, from Isabel Allende's bestselling magical realism to Roberto Bola\u00f1o, who briefly became the hottest writer in New York a couple of years after his death from liver failure in 2003. But where to start with Neruda's gargantuan oeuvre, and what are we to make of Harold Bloom's enthusiasm for Jos\u00e9 Donoso? Should we be examining the literary effects of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship, or looking into the origins of creacionismo? And, ahem, what about the short story?As ever, we're looking for books which illuminate the Chilean experience \u2013 poetry of course, as well as fiction short and long, plays and non-fiction \u2013 whether already available in English or yet to be translated. We'd also like to hear about writers from elsewhere who've captured something of Chile. All you need to do is visit the boxes below, filling in the country \u2013 this month that's Chile \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why it's great. But don't forget to add your votes for the tour's next destination \u2013 your votes still count even if, like me, you haven't got a favourite Chilean writer on your shelves. Who knows, we might even make it out of South America \u2026", "tags": ["Fiction", "Poetry", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Chile"},{"date": "2011-11-10T09:32:44Z", "country": "chile", "content": "As the market searches for direction amid continuing fears about the next eurozone country to face a crisis following Greece and Italy, there were contrasting fortunes for two of the major mining companies.Anglo American has added 70p to \u00a324.23 after it confirmed the sale of a 24.5% stake in its southern Chilean projects to Japan's Mitsubishi for $5.39bn. However there could be problems with Chile's Codelco, which wanted to exercise an option to buy a 49% shareholding in Anglo's assets in the country. It was already making unhappy noises about the Mitsubishi deal and talking of possible legal action. But Dominic O'Kane at Liberum Capital said the deal - which valued Anglo's Chilean assets at around $22bn - was a clever one:Almost a week ago Anglo agreed to pay $5.1bn to buy South Africa's Oppenheimer family out of De Beers and take control of the diamond company. At the time there was speculation it could use the Chilean money to help fund the deal.Meanwhile Vedanta Resources is down 61p to \u00a311.89 after its half year figures. Headline earnings at the Indian mining group rose by 27% but underlying profits dropped 34% to $186.3m, partly due to aluminum losses, rising costs and the depreciation of the rupee.Initially the UK market followed Wall Street and Asia sharply lower, but has since recovered some poise, with the FTSE 100 now down 26.36 points at 5434.02 after falling as low as 5360.The focus is again on Greece - where once more we await news of a new prime minister - and Italy - where ditto. The latter's bond yields have eased slightly but remain over the danger level of 7%. Worryingly, Spanish yields are edging up and are not far away from 6%, as investors worry about the damage to the rest of the eurozone if Italy's problems cannot be contained. Talk of a two tier euro if Italy cannot be saved is adding to the uncertainty. An Italian bond auction later will be widely watched.There is also speculation the European Central Bank may be forced to act, perhaps by increasing its bond buying programme, issuing a statement of support or countenancing an emergency interest rate cut.Meanwhile the outcome of the latest Bank of England meeting is due a midday, where investors await to see whether it will authorise further quantitative easing in the light of the growing European turmoil. Simon Denham at Capital Spreads said:Kathleen Brooks at Forex.com said:Back with the FTSE 100, Experian is the leading riser, up 26.5p to 810.5p as the credit information specialist unveiled a better than expected 20% rise in first half profits.But Admiral fell another 40p to 847.5 in the wake of the car insurer's profit warning on Wednesday.Among the mid-caps Homeserve recovered some ground after its recent plunge following misselling worries and fears of compensation claims. Its shares rose 31.3p to 249.8p as it said its priority was to tackle the problems it had encountered and was in \"constructive and regular\" dialogue with the Financial Services Authority.", "tags": ["Business", "Anglo American", "Vedanta Resources", "Experian", "Admiral", "Homeserve"], "title": "Markets remain nervous on European woes, while Anglo Amercan rises on Chile deal"},{"date": "2011-11-10T16:58:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "On another volatile day for the markets as France became the latest cause for concern, there were contrasting fortunes for two of the major mining companies.Anglo American added 30.5p to 2383.5p after it confirmed the sale of a 24.5% stake in its southern Chilean business to Japan's Mitsubishi for $5.39bn. However there could be problems with Chile's Codelco, which wanted to exercise an option to buy a 49% shareholding in Anglo's assets in the country. Codelco said it still wanted to buy the stake and Anglo must respect its option. It also hinted at possible legal action. But Dominic O'Kane at Liberum Capital said the deal - which valued Anglo's Chilean assets at around $22bn - was a clever one:Almost a week ago Anglo agreed to pay $5.1bn to buy South Africa's Oppenheimer family out of De Beers and take control of the diamond company. At the time there was speculation it could use the Chilean money to help fund the deal. But Kieran Daly at Macquarie suggested another possible use for the funds:Meanwhile Vedanta Resources fell 119p to \u00a311.31 - a 9.5% decline - after disappointing half year figures. Headline earnings at the Indian mining group rose by 27% but underlying profits dropped 34% to $186.3m, partly due to aluminium losses, rising costs and the depreciation of the rupee.Overall the FTSE 100 finished 15.56 points lower at 5444.82 having traded in a near 140 point range. As Greece finally chose a new prime minister and Italy moved closer to doing the same, there was a calmer air for much of the day, with Italian bond yields edging below the key 7% level. But the mood turned slightly sour later, on talk that one of the credit rating agencies could place France on negative watch, given its banks' exposure to Greek and Italian debt. Standard & Poor's later said a message had been issued by mistake suggesting the country's credit rating had been changed, but this was not the case.Back with the FTSE 100, Experian was the leading riser, up 42p to 826p as the credit information specialist unveiled a better than expected 20% rise in first half profits.A positive reaction to Morrisons results saw the supermarket group's shares add 11.3p to 317.8pBut Admiral fell another 67.5p to 820p in the wake of the car insurer's profit warning on Wednesday, which it blamed on increased personal injury claims. UBS cut its recommendation from buy to neutral saying:But Credit Suisse moved from underperform to neutral, saying:Among the mid-caps Homeserve recovered some ground after its recent plunge following misselling worries and fears of compensation claims. Its shares rose 37.5p to 256p as it said its priority was to tackle the problems it had encountered and was in \"constructive and regular\" dialogue with the Financial Services Authority. It said it had seen very few customers cancelling their policies. Panmure Gordon analyst Andy Brown repeated his sell recommendation. He said:But Joe Brent at Liberum kept his buy rating, saying:Rank rose 13p to 150p after it received the backing of the European Court of Justice in its battle with the UK tax authorities over alleged overpayment of VAT on bingo and amusement machines.Lower down the market social housing specialist Mears slumped 33p to 218.75p following a profits warning. The company said that in the wake of the government's decision to halve the photovoltaic feed-in tariff subsidy, it had decided to abandon its activities in this area immediately. As a result operating profit for the year would be \u00a32.8m lower than expected, and it would also write-off \u00a32m of costs associated with setting up the PV division. Chief executive David Miles said:Analyst David Brockton at Espirito Santo said:Joint broker Investec said:", "tags": ["Business", "Anglo American", "Vedanta Resources", "Experian", "Morrisons", "Admiral", "Homeserve", "Rank"], "title": "FTSE falters on new eurozone worries but Anglo adds 1% after Chile deal"},{"date": "2011-12-05T13:52:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We return from our Argentine adventure with a stack of recommendations \u2013 from yago, hymning Leopoldo Marechal's mythical transformation of the Argentinian capital in Ad\u00e1n Buenosayres, to gregory pekerman, hailing Cecilia Szperling's Natural Selection as a \"genuinely shocking\" portrait of \"wild young thrill-seekers \u2013 both men and women \u2013 as they wander through the subterranean nightlife of Buenos Aires\".Nilpferd saluted a master of fiction in another mode, calling Borges's Selected Non-Fictions \"a wonderful collection of essays from the world's most knowledgeable librarian\". Dyon suggested that the Danish immigrant Andreas Madsen's Patagonia Vieja \"may help understanding the cold solitude of Patagonia\", as well as the country's \"strange European mix\", while Aberdeen Swan wondered if the reason Manuel Puig's Kiss of the Spider Woman isn't better known was that \"Puig so clearly did not fit the mould of the macho New Latin American Novelist\". But the author who kept coming up again and again was Julio Cort\u00e1zar, with c. schroder leading the chorus of praise for his \"hypertext before hypertexts existed\", Hopscotch. Pia.Ayres envies those of us who \"haven't read it yet because they have the opportunity to be surprised by this fantastic book\", while bc25 suggests it's like jazz, with the story of an expatriate Argentinian in Paris as a standard \u2013 \"and a good one at that\" \u2013 while an alternative reading \"provides a series of riffs and elaborations on the major themes\". Davidseaman plumped for Cort\u00e1zar as well, though he cited a collection of short stories containing \"at least three genuinely great stories: 'Axlotl', 'Continuity of Parks', and 'Blow-Up'\" - neatly bringing us on the discussion of the short story which went on in the comments below. After a blizzard of mentions for short fiction, Nilpferd cautiously suggested that it may have simply been \"a favoured mode of expression\" for \"Borges and his circle\", though wondered if the tango might be in some way responsible. MexicanAl noted that the short story is equally important in other parts of Latin America, and speculated that this demand was driven by literary journals such as Sur.With the Tour heading for South America for the third month in a row, perhaps we can shed a little more light on the place of short fiction in Latin American letters. After edging out Uruguay by nine votes to eight, this month we're hopping across the Argentinian border to Chile. The \"pa\u00eds de poetas\" gave us the first Latin American Nobel literature laureate in 1945, Gabriela Mistral, and received another nod from the Swedish Academy in 1971 with Pablo Neruda, the swooping lines of whose poetry are matched by the drama of his dizzying personal life.The novel is also strong in Chile, from Isabel Allende's bestselling magical realism to Roberto Bola\u00f1o, who briefly became the hottest writer in New York a couple of years after his death from liver failure in 2003. But where to start with Neruda's gargantuan oeuvre, and what are we to make of Harold Bloom's enthusiasm for Jos\u00e9 Donoso? Should we be examining the literary effects of Augusto Pinochet's dictatorship, or looking into the origins of creacionismo? And, ahem, what about the short story?As ever, we're looking for books which illuminate the Chilean experience \u2013 poetry of course, as well as fiction short and long, plays and non-fiction \u2013 whether already available in English or yet to be translated. We'd also like to hear about writers from elsewhere who've captured something of Chile. All you need to do is visit the boxes below, filling in the country \u2013 this month that's Chile \u2013 the title, the author, the translator and some indication of why it's great. But don't forget to add your votes for the tour's next destination \u2013 your votes still count even if, like me, you haven't got a favourite Chilean writer on your shelves. Who knows, we might even make it out of South America \u2026", "tags": ["Fiction", "Poetry", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "World literature tour: Chile"},{"date": "2011-11-10T09:32:44Z", "country": "chile", "content": "As the market searches for direction amid continuing fears about the next eurozone country to face a crisis following Greece and Italy, there were contrasting fortunes for two of the major mining companies.Anglo American has added 70p to \u00a324.23 after it confirmed the sale of a 24.5% stake in its southern Chilean projects to Japan's Mitsubishi for $5.39bn. However there could be problems with Chile's Codelco, which wanted to exercise an option to buy a 49% shareholding in Anglo's assets in the country. It was already making unhappy noises about the Mitsubishi deal and talking of possible legal action. But Dominic O'Kane at Liberum Capital said the deal - which valued Anglo's Chilean assets at around $22bn - was a clever one:Almost a week ago Anglo agreed to pay $5.1bn to buy South Africa's Oppenheimer family out of De Beers and take control of the diamond company. At the time there was speculation it could use the Chilean money to help fund the deal.Meanwhile Vedanta Resources is down 61p to \u00a311.89 after its half year figures. Headline earnings at the Indian mining group rose by 27% but underlying profits dropped 34% to $186.3m, partly due to aluminum losses, rising costs and the depreciation of the rupee.Initially the UK market followed Wall Street and Asia sharply lower, but has since recovered some poise, with the FTSE 100 now down 26.36 points at 5434.02 after falling as low as 5360.The focus is again on Greece - where once more we await news of a new prime minister - and Italy - where ditto. The latter's bond yields have eased slightly but remain over the danger level of 7%. Worryingly, Spanish yields are edging up and are not far away from 6%, as investors worry about the damage to the rest of the eurozone if Italy's problems cannot be contained. Talk of a two tier euro if Italy cannot be saved is adding to the uncertainty. An Italian bond auction later will be widely watched.There is also speculation the European Central Bank may be forced to act, perhaps by increasing its bond buying programme, issuing a statement of support or countenancing an emergency interest rate cut.Meanwhile the outcome of the latest Bank of England meeting is due a midday, where investors await to see whether it will authorise further quantitative easing in the light of the growing European turmoil. Simon Denham at Capital Spreads said:Kathleen Brooks at Forex.com said:Back with the FTSE 100, Experian is the leading riser, up 26.5p to 810.5p as the credit information specialist unveiled a better than expected 20% rise in first half profits.But Admiral fell another 40p to 847.5 in the wake of the car insurer's profit warning on Wednesday.Among the mid-caps Homeserve recovered some ground after its recent plunge following misselling worries and fears of compensation claims. Its shares rose 31.3p to 249.8p as it said its priority was to tackle the problems it had encountered and was in \"constructive and regular\" dialogue with the Financial Services Authority.", "tags": ["Business", "Anglo American", "Vedanta Resources", "Experian", "Admiral", "Homeserve"], "title": "Markets remain nervous on European woes, while Anglo Amercan rises on Chile deal"},{"date": "2011-11-10T16:58:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "On another volatile day for the markets as France became the latest cause for concern, there were contrasting fortunes for two of the major mining companies.Anglo American added 30.5p to 2383.5p after it confirmed the sale of a 24.5% stake in its southern Chilean business to Japan's Mitsubishi for $5.39bn. However there could be problems with Chile's Codelco, which wanted to exercise an option to buy a 49% shareholding in Anglo's assets in the country. Codelco said it still wanted to buy the stake and Anglo must respect its option. It also hinted at possible legal action. But Dominic O'Kane at Liberum Capital said the deal - which valued Anglo's Chilean assets at around $22bn - was a clever one:Almost a week ago Anglo agreed to pay $5.1bn to buy South Africa's Oppenheimer family out of De Beers and take control of the diamond company. At the time there was speculation it could use the Chilean money to help fund the deal. But Kieran Daly at Macquarie suggested another possible use for the funds:Meanwhile Vedanta Resources fell 119p to \u00a311.31 - a 9.5% decline - after disappointing half year figures. Headline earnings at the Indian mining group rose by 27% but underlying profits dropped 34% to $186.3m, partly due to aluminium losses, rising costs and the depreciation of the rupee.Overall the FTSE 100 finished 15.56 points lower at 5444.82 having traded in a near 140 point range. As Greece finally chose a new prime minister and Italy moved closer to doing the same, there was a calmer air for much of the day, with Italian bond yields edging below the key 7% level. But the mood turned slightly sour later, on talk that one of the credit rating agencies could place France on negative watch, given its banks' exposure to Greek and Italian debt. Standard & Poor's later said a message had been issued by mistake suggesting the country's credit rating had been changed, but this was not the case.Back with the FTSE 100, Experian was the leading riser, up 42p to 826p as the credit information specialist unveiled a better than expected 20% rise in first half profits.A positive reaction to Morrisons results saw the supermarket group's shares add 11.3p to 317.8pBut Admiral fell another 67.5p to 820p in the wake of the car insurer's profit warning on Wednesday, which it blamed on increased personal injury claims. UBS cut its recommendation from buy to neutral saying:But Credit Suisse moved from underperform to neutral, saying:Among the mid-caps Homeserve recovered some ground after its recent plunge following misselling worries and fears of compensation claims. Its shares rose 37.5p to 256p as it said its priority was to tackle the problems it had encountered and was in \"constructive and regular\" dialogue with the Financial Services Authority. It said it had seen very few customers cancelling their policies. Panmure Gordon analyst Andy Brown repeated his sell recommendation. He said:But Joe Brent at Liberum kept his buy rating, saying:Rank rose 13p to 150p after it received the backing of the European Court of Justice in its battle with the UK tax authorities over alleged overpayment of VAT on bingo and amusement machines.Lower down the market social housing specialist Mears slumped 33p to 218.75p following a profits warning. The company said that in the wake of the government's decision to halve the photovoltaic feed-in tariff subsidy, it had decided to abandon its activities in this area immediately. As a result operating profit for the year would be \u00a32.8m lower than expected, and it would also write-off \u00a32m of costs associated with setting up the PV division. Chief executive David Miles said:Analyst David Brockton at Espirito Santo said:Joint broker Investec said:", "tags": ["Business", "Anglo American", "Vedanta Resources", "Experian", "Morrisons", "Admiral", "Homeserve", "Rank"], "title": "FTSE falters on new eurozone worries but Anglo adds 1% after Chile deal"},{"date": "2011-10-08T15:59:51Z", "country": "chile", "content": "As the Friday afternoon sun dipped towards the horizon, some students at the University of Chile played ping pong or football and couples lounged and kissed in the last warmth of the day. But others had more serious matters on their minds: the wildly popular student uprising that has transformed the nation's political agenda. And for many of the protesters involved and those who sympathise with its aims, the face of the uprising is Camila Vallejo.In a basement auditorium a group of 60 student leaders planned the next steps in their burgeoning revolution for free university education, with Vallejo centre stage.Vallejo sat behind her battered laptop, a small blue notebook on her desk and a rapt audience in front of her. When she speaks, her hands fly about, like birds snatching invisible prey. Her language is pointed and clear but, mixed with constant doses of humour and self-deprecation, she keeps her charges laughing.As the second female president of Chile's leading student body, known as Fech (Federaci\u00f3n de Estudiantes de la Universidad de Chile), Vallejo \u2013 who is also a member of the youth arm of the Communist party, the JJCC \u2013 has presided over the biggest citizen democracy movement since the days of opposition marches to General Augusto Pinochet a generation ago.The government response has reminded many older Chileans of that same dark era. Three days ago, on Thursday, Chilean riot police ambushed Vallejo and a group of fellow student leaders just after a press conference in downtown Santiago. \"They [police] targeted the leadership with violence,\" said Ariel Russell, a University of Chile student who witnessed the attack. \"We had not even started the march and the police apparatus was upon us.\"Vallejo, a 23-year-old geography student, was singing and marching with a handwritten sign when a squad of military vehicles closed in and attacked her with jets of tear gas. A pair of trucks mounted with water cannons unleashed a barrage of water fierce enough to break bones and scrape a person across the pavement. Vallejo was soaked, a cloud of tear gas was then blasted on to her body. With her skin wet, the chemical reaction was massive and incapacitating. Vallejo was paralysed. Her body went into an allergic reaction and welts from the gas erupted over it.\"At first, we resisted, but it was intolerable,\" she told the Observer. \"You could not breathe, it was complicated, we had to run away from the carabineros [police] then another water cannon hit us in the face with a different chemical, this was much stronger \u2026 my whole body was burning, it was brutal.\"Over the next four hours, journalists were beaten and 250 people arrested. Twenty-five police were injured as masked youths with paint bombs and handfuls of rocks counter-attacked. All Thursday afternoon, downtown Santiago was awash in running street fights between heavily armoured police units and hundreds of protesters decked in shorts and tennis shoes, with scarves to shield them from the gas.As squads of police attacked students, pedestrians and even an ambulance, Vallejo huddled up in an office, receiving medical care and monitoring the situation through mobile phone reports from a team of scouts at the edges of what quickly became a riot.The government blamed Vallejo for the chaos; after all, she had made the much publicised call, mobilising her followers to congregate at Plaza Italia, a public park and march along the Alameda, the capital's main thoroughfare, which sits less than two kilometres from the lightly guarded presidential palace. Vallejo was quick to retort that public gatherings need no authorisation and that the police had illegally attacked students standing in a park.Vallejo, an eloquent and attractive young woman who exudes self-confidence and style, took the violence in her stride and focused on what she sees as the positive achievements thus far. \"For years, Chilean youth have been consumed by a neo-liberal model that highlights personal achievement and consumerism; it is all about mine, mine, mine. There is not a lot of empathy for the other,\" said Vallejo in her office, decorated with a large photograph of Karl Marx.\"This movement has achieved just the opposite. The youth has taken control\u2026 and revived and dignified politics. This comes hand in hand with the questioning of worn-out political models \u2013 all they have done is govern for big business and powerful economic groups.\"In just a matter of months, Vallejo has been catapulted from anonymous student body president to Latin American folk hero with more than 300,000 Twitter followers. Type her name into Google and there are more than 160,000 results just from the past 24 hours. Brazilian students now parade her as a VIP guest at their marches, the Chilean president invites her to negotiate a settlement and when she calls for a show of strength hundreds of thousands of students throughout Chile take to the streets. As an adept and wildly popular social media phenomenon, Vallejo has risen to become the most recognisable face of the student protesters.Throughout the six-month revolt, Chilean students \u2013 in many cases led by 14- and 15-year-olds \u2013 have seized the streets of Santiago and major cities, provoking and challenging the status quo with their demand for a massive restructuring of the nation's for-profit higher education industry. In support of their demands for free university education, since May they have organised 37 marches, which have gathered upwards of 200,000 students at a time.Police repression has been frequent. Vandals who often use the cover of student marches to attack banks, pharmacies and utility companies are met by an armed force of riot police who routinely attack pedestrians and tear gas crowds of innocent civilians.What began as a quiet plea for improvements in public education has now erupted into a wholescale rejection of the Chilean political elite. More than 100 high schools nationwide have been seized by students and a dozen universities shut down by protests.Classes for tens of thousands of students have been suspended since May, and the entire school year might have to be repeated. Polls show an estimated 70% of the Chilean public backs the students' demands and an equal percentage find the government's proposal insufficient, according to figures from Chile's leading newspaper, La Tercera.Widely admired for her eloquent speeches on Chilean television, Vallejo has gathered a cult following around the world that ranges from German folk rock tributes to videos from Latin America's largest university, the Universidad Nacional Aut\u00f3noma de Mexico (Unam). \"This internationalisation of the movement has been very important to us,\" says Vallejo who receives a daily deluge of fan mail and invitations to speaking engagements and seminars. \"Here in Chile we are constantly hearing the message that our goals are impossible and that we are unrealistic, but the rest of the world, especially the youth, are sending us so much support. We are at a crucial moment in this struggle and international support is key.\"In stark contrast to the students' popularity, the once beloved coalition known as La Concertaci\u00f3n, which organised the overthrow of Pinochet and then ruled Chile from 1990 to 2010, has fallen into political obsolescence. La Concertaci\u00f3n is now polling at just 11% approval. Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, Chile's president, a billionaire businessman, has just 22% public approval ratings, the lowest ever in Chilean history.\"For 20 years they [La Concertaci\u00f3n] reinforced the Pinochet model, they institutionalised it, modernised it without any profound changes. Now that this model is in crisis, they can't be part of the discussion as they are effectively comp- licit,\" explained Santiago student Ariel Russell. \"Camila has an ability to deliver a very wide populist message, not populist just in terms of communicating to the poor, but also to the middle class\u2026 The youth now have more credibility than the traditional politicians.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 9/10/2011 to correct factual errors regarding the abbreviation of Federaci\u00f3n de Estudiantes de la Universidad de Chile (Fech) and to correctly attribute Vallejo's membership of the JJCC, not the full Communist party", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Protest", "Communism"], "title": "Camila Vallejo \u2013 Latin America's 23-year-old new revolutionary folk hero"},{"date": "2012-02-01T23:25:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Climate change sceptics have acquired a new explanation for why glaciers are retreating: it's not global warming, it's theft.Police in Chile have arrested a man on suspicion of stealing five tonnes of ice from the Jorge Montt glacier in the Patagonia region to sell as designer ice cubes in bars and restaurants.Local media reported that last Friday police intercepted a refrigerated truck with an estimated \u00a33,900 worth of illicit ice allegedly bound for whiskies, rums and cocktails in the capital Santiago.Authorities have accused the driver of theft and are considering adding violation of national monuments to the charge sheet.Scientists say Jorge Montt, part of the Bernardo O'Higgins national park, is retreating by half a mile a year, making it one of the world's fastest shrinking glaciers.Environmentalists have cited it as evidence that man-made climate change is warming the planet. Sceptics have cited other explanations for retreating glaciers, but theft \u2013 until now \u2013 was not one of them. It may be the only case in which both sides agree human activity was to blame.", "tags": ["Glaciers", "Climate change", "Climate change scepticism", "Environment", "Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Glacier thief arrested in Chile"},{"date": "2012-02-01T23:25:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Climate change sceptics have acquired a new explanation for why glaciers are retreating: it's not global warming, it's theft.Police in Chile have arrested a man on suspicion of stealing five tonnes of ice from the Jorge Montt glacier in the Patagonia region to sell as designer ice cubes in bars and restaurants.Local media reported that last Friday police intercepted a refrigerated truck with an estimated \u00a33,900 worth of illicit ice allegedly bound for whiskies, rums and cocktails in the capital Santiago.Authorities have accused the driver of theft and are considering adding violation of national monuments to the charge sheet.Scientists say Jorge Montt, part of the Bernardo O'Higgins national park, is retreating by half a mile a year, making it one of the world's fastest shrinking glaciers.Environmentalists have cited it as evidence that man-made climate change is warming the planet. Sceptics have cited other explanations for retreating glaciers, but theft \u2013 until now \u2013 was not one of them. It may be the only case in which both sides agree human activity was to blame.", "tags": ["Glaciers", "Climate change", "Climate change scepticism", "Environment", "Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Glacier thief arrested in Chile"},{"date": "2012-03-09T09:51:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is losing the battle for a free, independent media, according to an article in the country's leading English-language newspaper, the Santiago Times.Two weeks ago, one of its multi-media reporters, Jason Suder, was detained by police while covering a street protest despite displaying his press credentials. He was released after several hours in custody (and describes his experience here) but, says the article, it was a typical example of the way in which journalists are facing harassment, assaults and arrests.This attack on press freedom extends throughout Latin America despite the shift from despotic dictatorships to civilian democracies. The most obvious cases are Venezuela and Ecuador. It also also been seen periodically in Argentina.For a good while Chile seemed like a beacon of freedom. However, in the latest press freedom ranking by Reporters Without Borders (RSF), Chile fell 47 places to 80th position.This fall, said the Paris-based press freedom watchdog, was because of Chile's many freedom of information violations, committed very often by the security forces during student protests.One key problem is the lack of diversity. Two newspaper publishers own 95% of the country's newspapers. It is one of the most concentrated presses in the continent, says RSF's Beno\u00eet Hervieu. \"There is a conflict of interest in Chile - media owners are also landowners and industry owners.\"And two large newspapers, El Mercurio and Copesa, also receive \u00a33.2m every year in government subsidies, creating another conflict of interest, between the press and the government.This did not seem to matter until Chile was beset with a series of protests, including an objection to the construction of a hydroelectric dam in Patagonia, an attempt to reform the education system, and more recently complaints about poverty in Chile's most peripheral regions.Then the government began to take a more active stance in cracking down on both the protests themselves and journalists trying to report on them.Abuses against the press began during August last year during student protests. They have continued sporadically ever since.Sources: Santiago Times/Reporters Without Borders/HuffPo", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Chile", "Americas", "Journalist safety", "World news", "Ecuador", "Venezuela", "Argentina"], "title": "Chile is 'losing battle for press freedom'"},{"date": "2012-02-01T23:25:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Climate change sceptics have acquired a new explanation for why glaciers are retreating: it's not global warming, it's theft.Police in Chile have arrested a man on suspicion of stealing five tonnes of ice from the Jorge Montt glacier in the Patagonia region to sell as designer ice cubes in bars and restaurants.Local media reported that last Friday police intercepted a refrigerated truck with an estimated \u00a33,900 worth of illicit ice allegedly bound for whiskies, rums and cocktails in the capital Santiago.Authorities have accused the driver of theft and are considering adding violation of national monuments to the charge sheet.Scientists say Jorge Montt, part of the Bernardo O'Higgins national park, is retreating by half a mile a year, making it one of the world's fastest shrinking glaciers.Environmentalists have cited it as evidence that man-made climate change is warming the planet. Sceptics have cited other explanations for retreating glaciers, but theft \u2013 until now \u2013 was not one of them. It may be the only case in which both sides agree human activity was to blame.", "tags": ["Glaciers", "Climate change", "Climate change scepticism", "Environment", "Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Glacier thief arrested in Chile"},{"date": "2012-03-09T09:51:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is losing the battle for a free, independent media, according to an article in the country's leading English-language newspaper, the Santiago Times.Two weeks ago, one of its multi-media reporters, Jason Suder, was detained by police while covering a street protest despite displaying his press credentials. He was released after several hours in custody (and describes his experience here) but, says the article, it was a typical example of the way in which journalists are facing harassment, assaults and arrests.This attack on press freedom extends throughout Latin America despite the shift from despotic dictatorships to civilian democracies. The most obvious cases are Venezuela and Ecuador. It also also been seen periodically in Argentina.For a good while Chile seemed like a beacon of freedom. However, in the latest press freedom ranking by Reporters Without Borders (RSF), Chile fell 47 places to 80th position.This fall, said the Paris-based press freedom watchdog, was because of Chile's many freedom of information violations, committed very often by the security forces during student protests.One key problem is the lack of diversity. Two newspaper publishers own 95% of the country's newspapers. It is one of the most concentrated presses in the continent, says RSF's Beno\u00eet Hervieu. \"There is a conflict of interest in Chile - media owners are also landowners and industry owners.\"And two large newspapers, El Mercurio and Copesa, also receive \u00a33.2m every year in government subsidies, creating another conflict of interest, between the press and the government.This did not seem to matter until Chile was beset with a series of protests, including an objection to the construction of a hydroelectric dam in Patagonia, an attempt to reform the education system, and more recently complaints about poverty in Chile's most peripheral regions.Then the government began to take a more active stance in cracking down on both the protests themselves and journalists trying to report on them.Abuses against the press began during August last year during student protests. They have continued sporadically ever since.Sources: Santiago Times/Reporters Without Borders/HuffPo", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Chile", "Americas", "Journalist safety", "World news", "Ecuador", "Venezuela", "Argentina"], "title": "Chile is 'losing battle for press freedom'"},{"date": "2012-02-21T16:18:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Protesters in a remote region of Chile have triggered controversy by asking Argentina to \"adopt\" them because they feel forgotten by Chile's government.Residents in Ays\u00e9n, a sparsely populated Patagonian realm of glaciers and forests, have lit bonfires, blocked roads and clashed with police in a campaign for more support from the capital Santiago, 800 miles (1,300km) to the north.This week several thousand people in the town of Puerto Ays\u00e9n marched and carried banners, some of which said \"Argentina adopt us\", and chanted the slogan. Students, environmentalists and trade unions were due to march in Santiago in solidarity.Two government ministers met protest leaders to discuss their demands for jobs, cheaper fuel and food and better health services. Isolation and restricted access make Ays\u00e9n's cost of living higher than other parts of Chile.Requesting annexation by Argentina appeared an attempt to catch Chilean state attention rather than a serious proposal for secession but the idea still provoked derision from its neighbour.Readers of Clar\u00edn, a Buenos Aires daily, scorned the invitation on the grounds Chile supported Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict. \"Why don't you ask England to adopt you? They are your best friends and allies!\" said one typical comment.It was the latest sign that the diplomatic row between London and Buenos Aires over the disputed islands has focused Argentinian grievances before the conflict's 30th anniversary.Another reader called Chileans \"dirty traitors\" for having aided the British task force which seized the archipelago back from Argentina. Another defended Chileans, pointing out that it was the dictator Augusto Pinochet who helped Margaret Thatcher, not the Chilean people.\"Chileans have a very strange way of protesting \u2026 that doesn't mean they really want to be Argentinians,\" said one reader, then added: \"Even if subconsciously all Chileans would like to be Argentinian.\"Ays\u00e9n is one of the biggest of Chile's 15 administrative areas but is sparsely populated, with just over 100,000 inhabitants scattered around mountains, fjords, lakes and ice fields.The indigenous Cunco people were nearly wiped out by disease and attacks from European settlers, especially from Germany, Britain, Spain and the Balkans, who were invited to tame the wilderness by governments in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.The state has built roads and other basic infrastructure but the area's mining, fishing and forestry communities say they suffer from isolation, high prices and scarcity.The Social Movement for the Ays\u00e9n Region, a coalition of 25 groups, last week mounted barricades and protests to disrupt roads, ports and airfields. Several police officers were injured.Local and national authorities have said violent demonstrators would be prosecuted. \"The government is not going to accept or tolerate public disorder,\" a spokesman, Andr\u00e9s Chadwick, told reporters.President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, already under pressure from separate protests from students and indigenous Mapuche communities, sent a delegation to defuse the row.Jaime Ma\u00f1alich, the health minister, and Pedro Pablo Err\u00e1zuriz, the transport minister, said their meeting with protest leaders went well and that both sides had signed a provisional agreement.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "Protest"], "title": "Argentina should adopt us, say Chile protesters"},{"date": "2012-02-01T23:25:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Climate change sceptics have acquired a new explanation for why glaciers are retreating: it's not global warming, it's theft.Police in Chile have arrested a man on suspicion of stealing five tonnes of ice from the Jorge Montt glacier in the Patagonia region to sell as designer ice cubes in bars and restaurants.Local media reported that last Friday police intercepted a refrigerated truck with an estimated \u00a33,900 worth of illicit ice allegedly bound for whiskies, rums and cocktails in the capital Santiago.Authorities have accused the driver of theft and are considering adding violation of national monuments to the charge sheet.Scientists say Jorge Montt, part of the Bernardo O'Higgins national park, is retreating by half a mile a year, making it one of the world's fastest shrinking glaciers.Environmentalists have cited it as evidence that man-made climate change is warming the planet. Sceptics have cited other explanations for retreating glaciers, but theft \u2013 until now \u2013 was not one of them. It may be the only case in which both sides agree human activity was to blame.", "tags": ["Glaciers", "Climate change", "Climate change scepticism", "Environment", "Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Glacier thief arrested in Chile"},{"date": "2012-03-09T09:51:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is losing the battle for a free, independent media, according to an article in the country's leading English-language newspaper, the Santiago Times.Two weeks ago, one of its multi-media reporters, Jason Suder, was detained by police while covering a street protest despite displaying his press credentials. He was released after several hours in custody (and describes his experience here) but, says the article, it was a typical example of the way in which journalists are facing harassment, assaults and arrests.This attack on press freedom extends throughout Latin America despite the shift from despotic dictatorships to civilian democracies. The most obvious cases are Venezuela and Ecuador. It also also been seen periodically in Argentina.For a good while Chile seemed like a beacon of freedom. However, in the latest press freedom ranking by Reporters Without Borders (RSF), Chile fell 47 places to 80th position.This fall, said the Paris-based press freedom watchdog, was because of Chile's many freedom of information violations, committed very often by the security forces during student protests.One key problem is the lack of diversity. Two newspaper publishers own 95% of the country's newspapers. It is one of the most concentrated presses in the continent, says RSF's Beno\u00eet Hervieu. \"There is a conflict of interest in Chile - media owners are also landowners and industry owners.\"And two large newspapers, El Mercurio and Copesa, also receive \u00a33.2m every year in government subsidies, creating another conflict of interest, between the press and the government.This did not seem to matter until Chile was beset with a series of protests, including an objection to the construction of a hydroelectric dam in Patagonia, an attempt to reform the education system, and more recently complaints about poverty in Chile's most peripheral regions.Then the government began to take a more active stance in cracking down on both the protests themselves and journalists trying to report on them.Abuses against the press began during August last year during student protests. They have continued sporadically ever since.Sources: Santiago Times/Reporters Without Borders/HuffPo", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Chile", "Americas", "Journalist safety", "World news", "Ecuador", "Venezuela", "Argentina"], "title": "Chile is 'losing battle for press freedom'"},{"date": "2012-02-21T16:18:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Protesters in a remote region of Chile have triggered controversy by asking Argentina to \"adopt\" them because they feel forgotten by Chile's government.Residents in Ays\u00e9n, a sparsely populated Patagonian realm of glaciers and forests, have lit bonfires, blocked roads and clashed with police in a campaign for more support from the capital Santiago, 800 miles (1,300km) to the north.This week several thousand people in the town of Puerto Ays\u00e9n marched and carried banners, some of which said \"Argentina adopt us\", and chanted the slogan. Students, environmentalists and trade unions were due to march in Santiago in solidarity.Two government ministers met protest leaders to discuss their demands for jobs, cheaper fuel and food and better health services. Isolation and restricted access make Ays\u00e9n's cost of living higher than other parts of Chile.Requesting annexation by Argentina appeared an attempt to catch Chilean state attention rather than a serious proposal for secession but the idea still provoked derision from its neighbour.Readers of Clar\u00edn, a Buenos Aires daily, scorned the invitation on the grounds Chile supported Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict. \"Why don't you ask England to adopt you? They are your best friends and allies!\" said one typical comment.It was the latest sign that the diplomatic row between London and Buenos Aires over the disputed islands has focused Argentinian grievances before the conflict's 30th anniversary.Another reader called Chileans \"dirty traitors\" for having aided the British task force which seized the archipelago back from Argentina. Another defended Chileans, pointing out that it was the dictator Augusto Pinochet who helped Margaret Thatcher, not the Chilean people.\"Chileans have a very strange way of protesting \u2026 that doesn't mean they really want to be Argentinians,\" said one reader, then added: \"Even if subconsciously all Chileans would like to be Argentinian.\"Ays\u00e9n is one of the biggest of Chile's 15 administrative areas but is sparsely populated, with just over 100,000 inhabitants scattered around mountains, fjords, lakes and ice fields.The indigenous Cunco people were nearly wiped out by disease and attacks from European settlers, especially from Germany, Britain, Spain and the Balkans, who were invited to tame the wilderness by governments in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.The state has built roads and other basic infrastructure but the area's mining, fishing and forestry communities say they suffer from isolation, high prices and scarcity.The Social Movement for the Ays\u00e9n Region, a coalition of 25 groups, last week mounted barricades and protests to disrupt roads, ports and airfields. Several police officers were injured.Local and national authorities have said violent demonstrators would be prosecuted. \"The government is not going to accept or tolerate public disorder,\" a spokesman, Andr\u00e9s Chadwick, told reporters.President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, already under pressure from separate protests from students and indigenous Mapuche communities, sent a delegation to defuse the row.Jaime Ma\u00f1alich, the health minister, and Pedro Pablo Err\u00e1zuriz, the transport minister, said their meeting with protest leaders went well and that both sides had signed a provisional agreement.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "Protest"], "title": "Argentina should adopt us, say Chile protesters"},{"date": "2012-01-13T17:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "President of the University of Chile Student Federation, 23-year-old Camila Vallejo has led a campaign for better access to education that began in April 2011. She was voted person of the year in a poll of\u00a0guardian.co.uk readers.We never in our dreams imagined it would grow so big so fast. We had plans for protests and for mobilising students, but what happened last year was surprising even to us. Historically, the University of Chile students' union has had an important political role. Today more than ever. We've put hundreds of thousands of people in the streets for months. There have been\u00a0marches filled with colour, costumes and original music with really funny lyrics. There have been videos, flash mobs and Thriller protests [in which thousands of students re-enacted the Michael Jackson video]. We're not just disputing the ideological nature of the education system. All the basic services are privatised here and priced to the market. The consequences of this are very violent.The police tortured many students during the protests and continue to do so. It is systematic repression. I'm not just talking about what happened this past year \u2013 just the other day, a march was brutally repressed. The abuse of power is very common among the police and there is no regulation. It is a system of repression that has not disappeared in the post-Pinochet era. There are attacks against all kinds of human rights \u2013 the right to gather, the right to protest, the right to organise. They don't let us walk freely in the streets, they have even attacked our offices, high schools, universities. We are young \u2013 we did not live through the dictatorship \u2013 but we're aware of what happened from our parents, from books. We thought that this repression had gone, but by questioning the political order, we discovered that they are willing to\u00a0use these weapons again.We still have the legacy of the military dictatorship. Chile has\u00a0a\u00a0very weak civil society in\u00a0terms of\u00a0social organisations and\u00a0unions. Our social fabric is shredded. And there is a kind of individualism that\u00a0we are seeking to\u00a0overcome. This year the people woke up. Lost their fears. Questioned the model. There is enormous potential to mobilise. Maybe the student protests will not\u00a0be the same as last year with a\u00a0march every Thursday, but there is\u00a0going to be a huge development.", "tags": ["Chile", "Protest", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Protesters' stories: Camila Vallejo and Chile"},{"date": "2012-02-01T23:25:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Climate change sceptics have acquired a new explanation for why glaciers are retreating: it's not global warming, it's theft.Police in Chile have arrested a man on suspicion of stealing five tonnes of ice from the Jorge Montt glacier in the Patagonia region to sell as designer ice cubes in bars and restaurants.Local media reported that last Friday police intercepted a refrigerated truck with an estimated \u00a33,900 worth of illicit ice allegedly bound for whiskies, rums and cocktails in the capital Santiago.Authorities have accused the driver of theft and are considering adding violation of national monuments to the charge sheet.Scientists say Jorge Montt, part of the Bernardo O'Higgins national park, is retreating by half a mile a year, making it one of the world's fastest shrinking glaciers.Environmentalists have cited it as evidence that man-made climate change is warming the planet. Sceptics have cited other explanations for retreating glaciers, but theft \u2013 until now \u2013 was not one of them. It may be the only case in which both sides agree human activity was to blame.", "tags": ["Glaciers", "Climate change", "Climate change scepticism", "Environment", "Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Glacier thief arrested in Chile"},{"date": "2012-03-09T09:51:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is losing the battle for a free, independent media, according to an article in the country's leading English-language newspaper, the Santiago Times.Two weeks ago, one of its multi-media reporters, Jason Suder, was detained by police while covering a street protest despite displaying his press credentials. He was released after several hours in custody (and describes his experience here) but, says the article, it was a typical example of the way in which journalists are facing harassment, assaults and arrests.This attack on press freedom extends throughout Latin America despite the shift from despotic dictatorships to civilian democracies. The most obvious cases are Venezuela and Ecuador. It also also been seen periodically in Argentina.For a good while Chile seemed like a beacon of freedom. However, in the latest press freedom ranking by Reporters Without Borders (RSF), Chile fell 47 places to 80th position.This fall, said the Paris-based press freedom watchdog, was because of Chile's many freedom of information violations, committed very often by the security forces during student protests.One key problem is the lack of diversity. Two newspaper publishers own 95% of the country's newspapers. It is one of the most concentrated presses in the continent, says RSF's Beno\u00eet Hervieu. \"There is a conflict of interest in Chile - media owners are also landowners and industry owners.\"And two large newspapers, El Mercurio and Copesa, also receive \u00a33.2m every year in government subsidies, creating another conflict of interest, between the press and the government.This did not seem to matter until Chile was beset with a series of protests, including an objection to the construction of a hydroelectric dam in Patagonia, an attempt to reform the education system, and more recently complaints about poverty in Chile's most peripheral regions.Then the government began to take a more active stance in cracking down on both the protests themselves and journalists trying to report on them.Abuses against the press began during August last year during student protests. They have continued sporadically ever since.Sources: Santiago Times/Reporters Without Borders/HuffPo", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Chile", "Americas", "Journalist safety", "World news", "Ecuador", "Venezuela", "Argentina"], "title": "Chile is 'losing battle for press freedom'"},{"date": "2012-02-21T16:18:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Protesters in a remote region of Chile have triggered controversy by asking Argentina to \"adopt\" them because they feel forgotten by Chile's government.Residents in Ays\u00e9n, a sparsely populated Patagonian realm of glaciers and forests, have lit bonfires, blocked roads and clashed with police in a campaign for more support from the capital Santiago, 800 miles (1,300km) to the north.This week several thousand people in the town of Puerto Ays\u00e9n marched and carried banners, some of which said \"Argentina adopt us\", and chanted the slogan. Students, environmentalists and trade unions were due to march in Santiago in solidarity.Two government ministers met protest leaders to discuss their demands for jobs, cheaper fuel and food and better health services. Isolation and restricted access make Ays\u00e9n's cost of living higher than other parts of Chile.Requesting annexation by Argentina appeared an attempt to catch Chilean state attention rather than a serious proposal for secession but the idea still provoked derision from its neighbour.Readers of Clar\u00edn, a Buenos Aires daily, scorned the invitation on the grounds Chile supported Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict. \"Why don't you ask England to adopt you? They are your best friends and allies!\" said one typical comment.It was the latest sign that the diplomatic row between London and Buenos Aires over the disputed islands has focused Argentinian grievances before the conflict's 30th anniversary.Another reader called Chileans \"dirty traitors\" for having aided the British task force which seized the archipelago back from Argentina. Another defended Chileans, pointing out that it was the dictator Augusto Pinochet who helped Margaret Thatcher, not the Chilean people.\"Chileans have a very strange way of protesting \u2026 that doesn't mean they really want to be Argentinians,\" said one reader, then added: \"Even if subconsciously all Chileans would like to be Argentinian.\"Ays\u00e9n is one of the biggest of Chile's 15 administrative areas but is sparsely populated, with just over 100,000 inhabitants scattered around mountains, fjords, lakes and ice fields.The indigenous Cunco people were nearly wiped out by disease and attacks from European settlers, especially from Germany, Britain, Spain and the Balkans, who were invited to tame the wilderness by governments in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.The state has built roads and other basic infrastructure but the area's mining, fishing and forestry communities say they suffer from isolation, high prices and scarcity.The Social Movement for the Ays\u00e9n Region, a coalition of 25 groups, last week mounted barricades and protests to disrupt roads, ports and airfields. Several police officers were injured.Local and national authorities have said violent demonstrators would be prosecuted. \"The government is not going to accept or tolerate public disorder,\" a spokesman, Andr\u00e9s Chadwick, told reporters.President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, already under pressure from separate protests from students and indigenous Mapuche communities, sent a delegation to defuse the row.Jaime Ma\u00f1alich, the health minister, and Pedro Pablo Err\u00e1zuriz, the transport minister, said their meeting with protest leaders went well and that both sides had signed a provisional agreement.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "Protest"], "title": "Argentina should adopt us, say Chile protesters"},{"date": "2012-01-13T17:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "President of the University of Chile Student Federation, 23-year-old Camila Vallejo has led a campaign for better access to education that began in April 2011. She was voted person of the year in a poll of\u00a0guardian.co.uk readers.We never in our dreams imagined it would grow so big so fast. We had plans for protests and for mobilising students, but what happened last year was surprising even to us. Historically, the University of Chile students' union has had an important political role. Today more than ever. We've put hundreds of thousands of people in the streets for months. There have been\u00a0marches filled with colour, costumes and original music with really funny lyrics. There have been videos, flash mobs and Thriller protests [in which thousands of students re-enacted the Michael Jackson video]. We're not just disputing the ideological nature of the education system. All the basic services are privatised here and priced to the market. The consequences of this are very violent.The police tortured many students during the protests and continue to do so. It is systematic repression. I'm not just talking about what happened this past year \u2013 just the other day, a march was brutally repressed. The abuse of power is very common among the police and there is no regulation. It is a system of repression that has not disappeared in the post-Pinochet era. There are attacks against all kinds of human rights \u2013 the right to gather, the right to protest, the right to organise. They don't let us walk freely in the streets, they have even attacked our offices, high schools, universities. We are young \u2013 we did not live through the dictatorship \u2013 but we're aware of what happened from our parents, from books. We thought that this repression had gone, but by questioning the political order, we discovered that they are willing to\u00a0use these weapons again.We still have the legacy of the military dictatorship. Chile has\u00a0a\u00a0very weak civil society in\u00a0terms of\u00a0social organisations and\u00a0unions. Our social fabric is shredded. And there is a kind of individualism that\u00a0we are seeking to\u00a0overcome. This year the people woke up. Lost their fears. Questioned the model. There is enormous potential to mobilise. Maybe the student protests will not\u00a0be the same as last year with a\u00a0march every Thursday, but there is\u00a0going to be a huge development.", "tags": ["Chile", "Protest", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Protesters' stories: Camila Vallejo and Chile"},{"date": "2012-01-20T11:50:31Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Escalating tensions between the Mapuche people and Chile's government following a spate of devastating forest fires reveal the high cost of policies that champion multinational corporations by subordinating environmental protection to market growth.The fires have thrown into stark relief the consequences of a strategy that has made Chile a rising star in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, yet has made few concessions to indigenous rights and remains deaf to warnings about forestry practices.The OECD \u2013 which is seeking to expand its reach in Latin America and sees Chile as a model for Brazil's potential membership \u2013 has itself come under pressure to develop more rigorous guidelines on how multinationals should behave towards indigenous peoples.Relations between Chile's government and the Mapuche worsened dramatically after ministers suggested indigenous activists were behind the fires that ravaged about 500 sq km of commercial forestry and parkland in the country this month. The fires damaged commercial tree plantations in the regions of B\u00edo B\u00edo and La Araucan\u00eda and parts of Chile's foremost tourist attraction, the Torres del Paine national park in Patagonia. One blaze near Carahue, south of Santiago, claimed the lives of seven firefighters.Chile's president Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era caused outrage among NGOs and social groups by invoking anti-terrorism laws to pursue the arsonists he claimed were responsible, reviving their controversial use against the Mapuche \u2013 who have resorted to increasingly desperate tactics in a long struggle to recover ancestral lands from forestry companies.A declaration by Chilean NGOs and leaders of social groups expressed outrage at the use of anti-terror laws and said the fires called into serious question the industrial monocrop cultivation employed by forestry companies. Legal scholars have argued that the misguided prosecution of the Mapuche under anti-terror legislation has significantly eroded the rule of law in the country.Mapuche activists blame the fires on the introduction by forestry companies of non-native eucalyptus and pine, which have worsened the seasonal drought.Alfredo Seguel of the Konapewman Mapuche Association wrote on the Servindi blog that the fires coincided with a serious infestation of the Sirex wood wasp. It releases a toxin that kills pine, which the forestry industry had been trying in vain to keep under wraps to avoid rattling overseas markets. The introduction of non-native species is a major threat to biodiversity in Latin America, and disease has been a key limiting factor in the cultivation of other plantation crops.Seguel suggested that it was no coincidence the fires had occurred where the Sirex infestation is most severe and \"even if there is no collusion, should alert insurance companies about how the disaster benefits the timber companies so that they and any decent public authority investigate\".Commercial forestry \u2013 which today controls 3m hectares cultivated with non-native exotics \u2013 has been at the heart of the model of diversifying exports in Chile, originally fashioned by Augusto Pinochet's military dictatorship. The industry has driven state efforts to nurture the emergence of the country's own multinationals and is among the principal reasons why Chile was welcomed into the OECD fold.Pinochet opened indigenous lands to privatisation, unleashing a bitter dispute between the 600,000-strong Mapuche and the state. The failure to resolve this exposes a blind spot in the country's redemocratisation.To tick the OECD's boxes, Chile's government made environmental regulation the centrepiece of key reforms that responded to the organisation's agenda. As early as 2005 the OECD itself was warning Chile that little attention had been given to the environmental impact of tree planting and the risk this posed of epidemics.Despite significant reform, Chile's environmental regime has been criticised for remaining disproportionately pro-market (pdf) by contrast with other countries.The OECD itself has come under pressure to beef up protections for indigenous people. Last year James Anaya, the UN special rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples, called on it to issue more specific guidance on indigenous rights for multinational corporations.Updated OECD guidelines (pdf) now say enterprises may need to consider applying additional standards to respect human rights when dealing with groups such as indigenous people, commit multinationals to ensuring such stakeholders are included in decision-making that affects their communities, and reiterate International Labour Organisation recommendations on equal opportunities.However, these remain far from amounting to the comprehensive policies on indigenous peoples articulated by development bodies such as the World Bank and Inter-American Development Bank.Marie-France Houde, senior economist in the OECD investment division, told the Guardian: \"We have now turned our attention to the implementation of the revised guidelines, which is expected to include some further work on the engagement with stakeholders, including indigenous peoples.\"There are good reasons for Chile to resolve its disputes with the Mapuche. Global warming will have a major impact on the austral forests, and climate change negotiations have emphasised the need to strengthen the rights of indigenous forest dwellers and clarify who possesses the rights to forest carbon.", "tags": ["Natural resources and development", "Global development", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Indigenous peoples", "Trees and forests", "Environment"], "title": "Forest fires in Chile stoke tensions over indigenous land rights | Gavin O'Toole"},{"date": "2012-02-01T23:25:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Climate change sceptics have acquired a new explanation for why glaciers are retreating: it's not global warming, it's theft.Police in Chile have arrested a man on suspicion of stealing five tonnes of ice from the Jorge Montt glacier in the Patagonia region to sell as designer ice cubes in bars and restaurants.Local media reported that last Friday police intercepted a refrigerated truck with an estimated \u00a33,900 worth of illicit ice allegedly bound for whiskies, rums and cocktails in the capital Santiago.Authorities have accused the driver of theft and are considering adding violation of national monuments to the charge sheet.Scientists say Jorge Montt, part of the Bernardo O'Higgins national park, is retreating by half a mile a year, making it one of the world's fastest shrinking glaciers.Environmentalists have cited it as evidence that man-made climate change is warming the planet. Sceptics have cited other explanations for retreating glaciers, but theft \u2013 until now \u2013 was not one of them. It may be the only case in which both sides agree human activity was to blame.", "tags": ["Glaciers", "Climate change", "Climate change scepticism", "Environment", "Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Glacier thief arrested in Chile"},{"date": "2012-03-09T09:51:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is losing the battle for a free, independent media, according to an article in the country's leading English-language newspaper, the Santiago Times.Two weeks ago, one of its multi-media reporters, Jason Suder, was detained by police while covering a street protest despite displaying his press credentials. He was released after several hours in custody (and describes his experience here) but, says the article, it was a typical example of the way in which journalists are facing harassment, assaults and arrests.This attack on press freedom extends throughout Latin America despite the shift from despotic dictatorships to civilian democracies. The most obvious cases are Venezuela and Ecuador. It also also been seen periodically in Argentina.For a good while Chile seemed like a beacon of freedom. However, in the latest press freedom ranking by Reporters Without Borders (RSF), Chile fell 47 places to 80th position.This fall, said the Paris-based press freedom watchdog, was because of Chile's many freedom of information violations, committed very often by the security forces during student protests.One key problem is the lack of diversity. Two newspaper publishers own 95% of the country's newspapers. It is one of the most concentrated presses in the continent, says RSF's Beno\u00eet Hervieu. \"There is a conflict of interest in Chile - media owners are also landowners and industry owners.\"And two large newspapers, El Mercurio and Copesa, also receive \u00a33.2m every year in government subsidies, creating another conflict of interest, between the press and the government.This did not seem to matter until Chile was beset with a series of protests, including an objection to the construction of a hydroelectric dam in Patagonia, an attempt to reform the education system, and more recently complaints about poverty in Chile's most peripheral regions.Then the government began to take a more active stance in cracking down on both the protests themselves and journalists trying to report on them.Abuses against the press began during August last year during student protests. They have continued sporadically ever since.Sources: Santiago Times/Reporters Without Borders/HuffPo", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Chile", "Americas", "Journalist safety", "World news", "Ecuador", "Venezuela", "Argentina"], "title": "Chile is 'losing battle for press freedom'"},{"date": "2012-02-21T16:18:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Protesters in a remote region of Chile have triggered controversy by asking Argentina to \"adopt\" them because they feel forgotten by Chile's government.Residents in Ays\u00e9n, a sparsely populated Patagonian realm of glaciers and forests, have lit bonfires, blocked roads and clashed with police in a campaign for more support from the capital Santiago, 800 miles (1,300km) to the north.This week several thousand people in the town of Puerto Ays\u00e9n marched and carried banners, some of which said \"Argentina adopt us\", and chanted the slogan. Students, environmentalists and trade unions were due to march in Santiago in solidarity.Two government ministers met protest leaders to discuss their demands for jobs, cheaper fuel and food and better health services. Isolation and restricted access make Ays\u00e9n's cost of living higher than other parts of Chile.Requesting annexation by Argentina appeared an attempt to catch Chilean state attention rather than a serious proposal for secession but the idea still provoked derision from its neighbour.Readers of Clar\u00edn, a Buenos Aires daily, scorned the invitation on the grounds Chile supported Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict. \"Why don't you ask England to adopt you? They are your best friends and allies!\" said one typical comment.It was the latest sign that the diplomatic row between London and Buenos Aires over the disputed islands has focused Argentinian grievances before the conflict's 30th anniversary.Another reader called Chileans \"dirty traitors\" for having aided the British task force which seized the archipelago back from Argentina. Another defended Chileans, pointing out that it was the dictator Augusto Pinochet who helped Margaret Thatcher, not the Chilean people.\"Chileans have a very strange way of protesting \u2026 that doesn't mean they really want to be Argentinians,\" said one reader, then added: \"Even if subconsciously all Chileans would like to be Argentinian.\"Ays\u00e9n is one of the biggest of Chile's 15 administrative areas but is sparsely populated, with just over 100,000 inhabitants scattered around mountains, fjords, lakes and ice fields.The indigenous Cunco people were nearly wiped out by disease and attacks from European settlers, especially from Germany, Britain, Spain and the Balkans, who were invited to tame the wilderness by governments in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.The state has built roads and other basic infrastructure but the area's mining, fishing and forestry communities say they suffer from isolation, high prices and scarcity.The Social Movement for the Ays\u00e9n Region, a coalition of 25 groups, last week mounted barricades and protests to disrupt roads, ports and airfields. Several police officers were injured.Local and national authorities have said violent demonstrators would be prosecuted. \"The government is not going to accept or tolerate public disorder,\" a spokesman, Andr\u00e9s Chadwick, told reporters.President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, already under pressure from separate protests from students and indigenous Mapuche communities, sent a delegation to defuse the row.Jaime Ma\u00f1alich, the health minister, and Pedro Pablo Err\u00e1zuriz, the transport minister, said their meeting with protest leaders went well and that both sides had signed a provisional agreement.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "Protest"], "title": "Argentina should adopt us, say Chile protesters"},{"date": "2012-01-13T17:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "President of the University of Chile Student Federation, 23-year-old Camila Vallejo has led a campaign for better access to education that began in April 2011. She was voted person of the year in a poll of\u00a0guardian.co.uk readers.We never in our dreams imagined it would grow so big so fast. We had plans for protests and for mobilising students, but what happened last year was surprising even to us. Historically, the University of Chile students' union has had an important political role. Today more than ever. We've put hundreds of thousands of people in the streets for months. There have been\u00a0marches filled with colour, costumes and original music with really funny lyrics. There have been videos, flash mobs and Thriller protests [in which thousands of students re-enacted the Michael Jackson video]. We're not just disputing the ideological nature of the education system. All the basic services are privatised here and priced to the market. The consequences of this are very violent.The police tortured many students during the protests and continue to do so. It is systematic repression. I'm not just talking about what happened this past year \u2013 just the other day, a march was brutally repressed. The abuse of power is very common among the police and there is no regulation. It is a system of repression that has not disappeared in the post-Pinochet era. There are attacks against all kinds of human rights \u2013 the right to gather, the right to protest, the right to organise. They don't let us walk freely in the streets, they have even attacked our offices, high schools, universities. We are young \u2013 we did not live through the dictatorship \u2013 but we're aware of what happened from our parents, from books. We thought that this repression had gone, but by questioning the political order, we discovered that they are willing to\u00a0use these weapons again.We still have the legacy of the military dictatorship. Chile has\u00a0a\u00a0very weak civil society in\u00a0terms of\u00a0social organisations and\u00a0unions. Our social fabric is shredded. And there is a kind of individualism that\u00a0we are seeking to\u00a0overcome. This year the people woke up. Lost their fears. Questioned the model. There is enormous potential to mobilise. Maybe the student protests will not\u00a0be the same as last year with a\u00a0march every Thursday, but there is\u00a0going to be a huge development.", "tags": ["Chile", "Protest", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Protesters' stories: Camila Vallejo and Chile"},{"date": "2012-01-20T11:50:31Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Escalating tensions between the Mapuche people and Chile's government following a spate of devastating forest fires reveal the high cost of policies that champion multinational corporations by subordinating environmental protection to market growth.The fires have thrown into stark relief the consequences of a strategy that has made Chile a rising star in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, yet has made few concessions to indigenous rights and remains deaf to warnings about forestry practices.The OECD \u2013 which is seeking to expand its reach in Latin America and sees Chile as a model for Brazil's potential membership \u2013 has itself come under pressure to develop more rigorous guidelines on how multinationals should behave towards indigenous peoples.Relations between Chile's government and the Mapuche worsened dramatically after ministers suggested indigenous activists were behind the fires that ravaged about 500 sq km of commercial forestry and parkland in the country this month. The fires damaged commercial tree plantations in the regions of B\u00edo B\u00edo and La Araucan\u00eda and parts of Chile's foremost tourist attraction, the Torres del Paine national park in Patagonia. One blaze near Carahue, south of Santiago, claimed the lives of seven firefighters.Chile's president Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era caused outrage among NGOs and social groups by invoking anti-terrorism laws to pursue the arsonists he claimed were responsible, reviving their controversial use against the Mapuche \u2013 who have resorted to increasingly desperate tactics in a long struggle to recover ancestral lands from forestry companies.A declaration by Chilean NGOs and leaders of social groups expressed outrage at the use of anti-terror laws and said the fires called into serious question the industrial monocrop cultivation employed by forestry companies. Legal scholars have argued that the misguided prosecution of the Mapuche under anti-terror legislation has significantly eroded the rule of law in the country.Mapuche activists blame the fires on the introduction by forestry companies of non-native eucalyptus and pine, which have worsened the seasonal drought.Alfredo Seguel of the Konapewman Mapuche Association wrote on the Servindi blog that the fires coincided with a serious infestation of the Sirex wood wasp. It releases a toxin that kills pine, which the forestry industry had been trying in vain to keep under wraps to avoid rattling overseas markets. The introduction of non-native species is a major threat to biodiversity in Latin America, and disease has been a key limiting factor in the cultivation of other plantation crops.Seguel suggested that it was no coincidence the fires had occurred where the Sirex infestation is most severe and \"even if there is no collusion, should alert insurance companies about how the disaster benefits the timber companies so that they and any decent public authority investigate\".Commercial forestry \u2013 which today controls 3m hectares cultivated with non-native exotics \u2013 has been at the heart of the model of diversifying exports in Chile, originally fashioned by Augusto Pinochet's military dictatorship. The industry has driven state efforts to nurture the emergence of the country's own multinationals and is among the principal reasons why Chile was welcomed into the OECD fold.Pinochet opened indigenous lands to privatisation, unleashing a bitter dispute between the 600,000-strong Mapuche and the state. The failure to resolve this exposes a blind spot in the country's redemocratisation.To tick the OECD's boxes, Chile's government made environmental regulation the centrepiece of key reforms that responded to the organisation's agenda. As early as 2005 the OECD itself was warning Chile that little attention had been given to the environmental impact of tree planting and the risk this posed of epidemics.Despite significant reform, Chile's environmental regime has been criticised for remaining disproportionately pro-market (pdf) by contrast with other countries.The OECD itself has come under pressure to beef up protections for indigenous people. Last year James Anaya, the UN special rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples, called on it to issue more specific guidance on indigenous rights for multinational corporations.Updated OECD guidelines (pdf) now say enterprises may need to consider applying additional standards to respect human rights when dealing with groups such as indigenous people, commit multinationals to ensuring such stakeholders are included in decision-making that affects their communities, and reiterate International Labour Organisation recommendations on equal opportunities.However, these remain far from amounting to the comprehensive policies on indigenous peoples articulated by development bodies such as the World Bank and Inter-American Development Bank.Marie-France Houde, senior economist in the OECD investment division, told the Guardian: \"We have now turned our attention to the implementation of the revised guidelines, which is expected to include some further work on the engagement with stakeholders, including indigenous peoples.\"There are good reasons for Chile to resolve its disputes with the Mapuche. Global warming will have a major impact on the austral forests, and climate change negotiations have emphasised the need to strengthen the rights of indigenous forest dwellers and clarify who possesses the rights to forest carbon.", "tags": ["Natural resources and development", "Global development", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Indigenous peoples", "Trees and forests", "Environment"], "title": "Forest fires in Chile stoke tensions over indigenous land rights | Gavin O'Toole"},{"date": "2012-03-08T08:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Last month, the Chilean president Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era celebrated the fact that 30,000 women have taken up an offer of extended maternity leave, allowing mothers six months off rather than three. The new parental leave law came in last October and is regarded by the current government as the biggest achievement for women's rights in recent years. And it is important. But maternity rights are not the only ones that matter and we can only wait to see how this new law will affect female employment.Chile has one of the lowest percentages of female presence in the labour market in Latin America: while the average of the continent is 53%, in Chile it is only 42%. And this new law may be a new barrier.Then there is the quality of jobs on offer. Women earn 35.4% less than men in the same position, despite a law to prohibit this.One more achievement of the past year was Congress discussing the possibility of allowing therapeutic abortion. Chile is one of the six countries in the world that does not allow abortion in any scenario, and this discussion is as far as we have gone in more than 20 years. At least it was a beginning.This debate may have gone ahead faster if there were more women involved, but only 13.9% of members of our Congress are female. As this is an election year, to celebrate International Women's Day Chileans will demonstrate to raise awareness of that low presence of women in politics and its effects.We still have a long way to go regarding women's rights in Chile, but the good news is that we are more aware about this reality than ever and are taking an active role to make the necessary changes happen.\u2022 To comment on this article please visit our interactive map of what can be celebrated around the world this International Women's Day", "tags": ["Chile", "Women", "International Women's Day", "Abortion", "Health", "Americas", "World news", "Feminism"], "title": "This year let's celebrate \u2026 a belated discission about women's rights in Chile | Catalina May"},{"date": "2012-02-01T23:25:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Climate change sceptics have acquired a new explanation for why glaciers are retreating: it's not global warming, it's theft.Police in Chile have arrested a man on suspicion of stealing five tonnes of ice from the Jorge Montt glacier in the Patagonia region to sell as designer ice cubes in bars and restaurants.Local media reported that last Friday police intercepted a refrigerated truck with an estimated \u00a33,900 worth of illicit ice allegedly bound for whiskies, rums and cocktails in the capital Santiago.Authorities have accused the driver of theft and are considering adding violation of national monuments to the charge sheet.Scientists say Jorge Montt, part of the Bernardo O'Higgins national park, is retreating by half a mile a year, making it one of the world's fastest shrinking glaciers.Environmentalists have cited it as evidence that man-made climate change is warming the planet. Sceptics have cited other explanations for retreating glaciers, but theft \u2013 until now \u2013 was not one of them. It may be the only case in which both sides agree human activity was to blame.", "tags": ["Glaciers", "Climate change", "Climate change scepticism", "Environment", "Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Glacier thief arrested in Chile"},{"date": "2012-03-09T09:51:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is losing the battle for a free, independent media, according to an article in the country's leading English-language newspaper, the Santiago Times.Two weeks ago, one of its multi-media reporters, Jason Suder, was detained by police while covering a street protest despite displaying his press credentials. He was released after several hours in custody (and describes his experience here) but, says the article, it was a typical example of the way in which journalists are facing harassment, assaults and arrests.This attack on press freedom extends throughout Latin America despite the shift from despotic dictatorships to civilian democracies. The most obvious cases are Venezuela and Ecuador. It also also been seen periodically in Argentina.For a good while Chile seemed like a beacon of freedom. However, in the latest press freedom ranking by Reporters Without Borders (RSF), Chile fell 47 places to 80th position.This fall, said the Paris-based press freedom watchdog, was because of Chile's many freedom of information violations, committed very often by the security forces during student protests.One key problem is the lack of diversity. Two newspaper publishers own 95% of the country's newspapers. It is one of the most concentrated presses in the continent, says RSF's Beno\u00eet Hervieu. \"There is a conflict of interest in Chile - media owners are also landowners and industry owners.\"And two large newspapers, El Mercurio and Copesa, also receive \u00a33.2m every year in government subsidies, creating another conflict of interest, between the press and the government.This did not seem to matter until Chile was beset with a series of protests, including an objection to the construction of a hydroelectric dam in Patagonia, an attempt to reform the education system, and more recently complaints about poverty in Chile's most peripheral regions.Then the government began to take a more active stance in cracking down on both the protests themselves and journalists trying to report on them.Abuses against the press began during August last year during student protests. They have continued sporadically ever since.Sources: Santiago Times/Reporters Without Borders/HuffPo", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "Chile", "Americas", "Journalist safety", "World news", "Ecuador", "Venezuela", "Argentina"], "title": "Chile is 'losing battle for press freedom'"},{"date": "2012-02-21T16:18:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Protesters in a remote region of Chile have triggered controversy by asking Argentina to \"adopt\" them because they feel forgotten by Chile's government.Residents in Ays\u00e9n, a sparsely populated Patagonian realm of glaciers and forests, have lit bonfires, blocked roads and clashed with police in a campaign for more support from the capital Santiago, 800 miles (1,300km) to the north.This week several thousand people in the town of Puerto Ays\u00e9n marched and carried banners, some of which said \"Argentina adopt us\", and chanted the slogan. Students, environmentalists and trade unions were due to march in Santiago in solidarity.Two government ministers met protest leaders to discuss their demands for jobs, cheaper fuel and food and better health services. Isolation and restricted access make Ays\u00e9n's cost of living higher than other parts of Chile.Requesting annexation by Argentina appeared an attempt to catch Chilean state attention rather than a serious proposal for secession but the idea still provoked derision from its neighbour.Readers of Clar\u00edn, a Buenos Aires daily, scorned the invitation on the grounds Chile supported Britain during the 1982 Falklands conflict. \"Why don't you ask England to adopt you? They are your best friends and allies!\" said one typical comment.It was the latest sign that the diplomatic row between London and Buenos Aires over the disputed islands has focused Argentinian grievances before the conflict's 30th anniversary.Another reader called Chileans \"dirty traitors\" for having aided the British task force which seized the archipelago back from Argentina. Another defended Chileans, pointing out that it was the dictator Augusto Pinochet who helped Margaret Thatcher, not the Chilean people.\"Chileans have a very strange way of protesting \u2026 that doesn't mean they really want to be Argentinians,\" said one reader, then added: \"Even if subconsciously all Chileans would like to be Argentinian.\"Ays\u00e9n is one of the biggest of Chile's 15 administrative areas but is sparsely populated, with just over 100,000 inhabitants scattered around mountains, fjords, lakes and ice fields.The indigenous Cunco people were nearly wiped out by disease and attacks from European settlers, especially from Germany, Britain, Spain and the Balkans, who were invited to tame the wilderness by governments in the late 19th and early 20th centuries.The state has built roads and other basic infrastructure but the area's mining, fishing and forestry communities say they suffer from isolation, high prices and scarcity.The Social Movement for the Ays\u00e9n Region, a coalition of 25 groups, last week mounted barricades and protests to disrupt roads, ports and airfields. Several police officers were injured.Local and national authorities have said violent demonstrators would be prosecuted. \"The government is not going to accept or tolerate public disorder,\" a spokesman, Andr\u00e9s Chadwick, told reporters.President Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, already under pressure from separate protests from students and indigenous Mapuche communities, sent a delegation to defuse the row.Jaime Ma\u00f1alich, the health minister, and Pedro Pablo Err\u00e1zuriz, the transport minister, said their meeting with protest leaders went well and that both sides had signed a provisional agreement.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "Protest"], "title": "Argentina should adopt us, say Chile protesters"},{"date": "2012-01-13T17:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "President of the University of Chile Student Federation, 23-year-old Camila Vallejo has led a campaign for better access to education that began in April 2011. She was voted person of the year in a poll of\u00a0guardian.co.uk readers.We never in our dreams imagined it would grow so big so fast. We had plans for protests and for mobilising students, but what happened last year was surprising even to us. Historically, the University of Chile students' union has had an important political role. Today more than ever. We've put hundreds of thousands of people in the streets for months. There have been\u00a0marches filled with colour, costumes and original music with really funny lyrics. There have been videos, flash mobs and Thriller protests [in which thousands of students re-enacted the Michael Jackson video]. We're not just disputing the ideological nature of the education system. All the basic services are privatised here and priced to the market. The consequences of this are very violent.The police tortured many students during the protests and continue to do so. It is systematic repression. I'm not just talking about what happened this past year \u2013 just the other day, a march was brutally repressed. The abuse of power is very common among the police and there is no regulation. It is a system of repression that has not disappeared in the post-Pinochet era. There are attacks against all kinds of human rights \u2013 the right to gather, the right to protest, the right to organise. They don't let us walk freely in the streets, they have even attacked our offices, high schools, universities. We are young \u2013 we did not live through the dictatorship \u2013 but we're aware of what happened from our parents, from books. We thought that this repression had gone, but by questioning the political order, we discovered that they are willing to\u00a0use these weapons again.We still have the legacy of the military dictatorship. Chile has\u00a0a\u00a0very weak civil society in\u00a0terms of\u00a0social organisations and\u00a0unions. Our social fabric is shredded. And there is a kind of individualism that\u00a0we are seeking to\u00a0overcome. This year the people woke up. Lost their fears. Questioned the model. There is enormous potential to mobilise. Maybe the student protests will not\u00a0be the same as last year with a\u00a0march every Thursday, but there is\u00a0going to be a huge development.", "tags": ["Chile", "Protest", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Protesters' stories: Camila Vallejo and Chile"},{"date": "2012-01-20T11:50:31Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Escalating tensions between the Mapuche people and Chile's government following a spate of devastating forest fires reveal the high cost of policies that champion multinational corporations by subordinating environmental protection to market growth.The fires have thrown into stark relief the consequences of a strategy that has made Chile a rising star in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, yet has made few concessions to indigenous rights and remains deaf to warnings about forestry practices.The OECD \u2013 which is seeking to expand its reach in Latin America and sees Chile as a model for Brazil's potential membership \u2013 has itself come under pressure to develop more rigorous guidelines on how multinationals should behave towards indigenous peoples.Relations between Chile's government and the Mapuche worsened dramatically after ministers suggested indigenous activists were behind the fires that ravaged about 500 sq km of commercial forestry and parkland in the country this month. The fires damaged commercial tree plantations in the regions of B\u00edo B\u00edo and La Araucan\u00eda and parts of Chile's foremost tourist attraction, the Torres del Paine national park in Patagonia. One blaze near Carahue, south of Santiago, claimed the lives of seven firefighters.Chile's president Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era caused outrage among NGOs and social groups by invoking anti-terrorism laws to pursue the arsonists he claimed were responsible, reviving their controversial use against the Mapuche \u2013 who have resorted to increasingly desperate tactics in a long struggle to recover ancestral lands from forestry companies.A declaration by Chilean NGOs and leaders of social groups expressed outrage at the use of anti-terror laws and said the fires called into serious question the industrial monocrop cultivation employed by forestry companies. Legal scholars have argued that the misguided prosecution of the Mapuche under anti-terror legislation has significantly eroded the rule of law in the country.Mapuche activists blame the fires on the introduction by forestry companies of non-native eucalyptus and pine, which have worsened the seasonal drought.Alfredo Seguel of the Konapewman Mapuche Association wrote on the Servindi blog that the fires coincided with a serious infestation of the Sirex wood wasp. It releases a toxin that kills pine, which the forestry industry had been trying in vain to keep under wraps to avoid rattling overseas markets. The introduction of non-native species is a major threat to biodiversity in Latin America, and disease has been a key limiting factor in the cultivation of other plantation crops.Seguel suggested that it was no coincidence the fires had occurred where the Sirex infestation is most severe and \"even if there is no collusion, should alert insurance companies about how the disaster benefits the timber companies so that they and any decent public authority investigate\".Commercial forestry \u2013 which today controls 3m hectares cultivated with non-native exotics \u2013 has been at the heart of the model of diversifying exports in Chile, originally fashioned by Augusto Pinochet's military dictatorship. The industry has driven state efforts to nurture the emergence of the country's own multinationals and is among the principal reasons why Chile was welcomed into the OECD fold.Pinochet opened indigenous lands to privatisation, unleashing a bitter dispute between the 600,000-strong Mapuche and the state. The failure to resolve this exposes a blind spot in the country's redemocratisation.To tick the OECD's boxes, Chile's government made environmental regulation the centrepiece of key reforms that responded to the organisation's agenda. As early as 2005 the OECD itself was warning Chile that little attention had been given to the environmental impact of tree planting and the risk this posed of epidemics.Despite significant reform, Chile's environmental regime has been criticised for remaining disproportionately pro-market (pdf) by contrast with other countries.The OECD itself has come under pressure to beef up protections for indigenous people. Last year James Anaya, the UN special rapporteur on the rights of indigenous peoples, called on it to issue more specific guidance on indigenous rights for multinational corporations.Updated OECD guidelines (pdf) now say enterprises may need to consider applying additional standards to respect human rights when dealing with groups such as indigenous people, commit multinationals to ensuring such stakeholders are included in decision-making that affects their communities, and reiterate International Labour Organisation recommendations on equal opportunities.However, these remain far from amounting to the comprehensive policies on indigenous peoples articulated by development bodies such as the World Bank and Inter-American Development Bank.Marie-France Houde, senior economist in the OECD investment division, told the Guardian: \"We have now turned our attention to the implementation of the revised guidelines, which is expected to include some further work on the engagement with stakeholders, including indigenous peoples.\"There are good reasons for Chile to resolve its disputes with the Mapuche. Global warming will have a major impact on the austral forests, and climate change negotiations have emphasised the need to strengthen the rights of indigenous forest dwellers and clarify who possesses the rights to forest carbon.", "tags": ["Natural resources and development", "Global development", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Indigenous peoples", "Trees and forests", "Environment"], "title": "Forest fires in Chile stoke tensions over indigenous land rights | Gavin O'Toole"},{"date": "2012-03-08T08:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Last month, the Chilean president Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era celebrated the fact that 30,000 women have taken up an offer of extended maternity leave, allowing mothers six months off rather than three. The new parental leave law came in last October and is regarded by the current government as the biggest achievement for women's rights in recent years. And it is important. But maternity rights are not the only ones that matter and we can only wait to see how this new law will affect female employment.Chile has one of the lowest percentages of female presence in the labour market in Latin America: while the average of the continent is 53%, in Chile it is only 42%. And this new law may be a new barrier.Then there is the quality of jobs on offer. Women earn 35.4% less than men in the same position, despite a law to prohibit this.One more achievement of the past year was Congress discussing the possibility of allowing therapeutic abortion. Chile is one of the six countries in the world that does not allow abortion in any scenario, and this discussion is as far as we have gone in more than 20 years. At least it was a beginning.This debate may have gone ahead faster if there were more women involved, but only 13.9% of members of our Congress are female. As this is an election year, to celebrate International Women's Day Chileans will demonstrate to raise awareness of that low presence of women in politics and its effects.We still have a long way to go regarding women's rights in Chile, but the good news is that we are more aware about this reality than ever and are taking an active role to make the necessary changes happen.\u2022 To comment on this article please visit our interactive map of what can be celebrated around the world this International Women's Day", "tags": ["Chile", "Women", "International Women's Day", "Abortion", "Health", "Americas", "World news", "Feminism"], "title": "This year let's celebrate \u2026 a belated discission about women's rights in Chile | Catalina May"},{"date": "2012-01-20T11:51:18Z", "country": "chile", "content": "La escalada en las tensiones entre el pueblo Mapuche y el gobierno chileno seguidas al torrente de devastantes incendios forestales revela el alto costo de las pol\u00edticas de protecci\u00f3n al crecimiento mercantil y la subordinaci\u00f3n medioambiental apoyada por las corporaciones multinacionales .Los incendios han resaltado el marcado contraste de las consecuencias de una estrategia que ha hecho de Chile la estrella emergente en la Organizaci\u00f3n para la Cooperaci\u00f3n y el Desarrollo Econ\u00f3mico (OCDE), que ha hecho a\u00fan menos concesiones a los derechos ind\u00edgenas y que contin\u00faa sin escuchar las advertencias sobre las pr\u00e1cticas de la arboricultura.La misma OCDE \u2013 quien busca su expansi\u00f3n en Latinoam\u00e9rica y considera a Chile como modelo para Brasil, potencial miembro \u2013 ha estado bajo presi\u00f3n para desarrollar reglas m\u00e1s rigurosas sobre como deber\u00e1n comportarse las multinacionales con respecto a los pueblos ind\u00edgenas.Las relaciones entre el gobierno de Chile y los Mapuches han empeorado dram\u00e1ticamente despu\u00e9s de que ministros sugirieron que los activistas ind\u00edgenas estaban detr\u00e1s de los incendios que devastaron cerca de 500 kil\u00f3metros cuadrados de bosques comerciales y parques en el pa\u00eds a principios de este mes. Los fuegos da\u00f1aron plantaciones comerciales de \u00e1rboles en las regiones de B\u00edo B\u00edo, La Araucan\u00eda y partes del parque nacional Las Torres del Paine, en Patagonia, una de las m\u00e1s importantes atracciones tur\u00edsticas de Chile. Un incendio cerca de Carahue, al sur de Santiago, le cost\u00f3 la vida a siete brigadistas.El presidente de Chile, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, caus\u00f3 el esc\u00e1ndalo entre los ONGs y grupos sociales al invocar las leyes anti-terroristas para perseguir a los incendiarios el declar\u00f3 como responsables, reviviendo su controversial uso contra los Mapuches \u2013 quienes han recurrido a un incremento en t\u00e1cticas desesperadas durante una larga lucha para recobrar tierras ancestrales de las compa\u00f1\u00edas arboricultoras.Una declaraci\u00f3n conjunta de los ONGs y los l\u00edderes de los grupos sociales expres\u00f3 su indignaci\u00f3n por el uso de las leyes anti-terroristas y dijo que los incendios atraen la seria cuesti\u00f3n del monocultivo empleado por las compa\u00f1\u00edas arboricultoras. Acad\u00e9micos en leyes han discutido que la persecuci\u00f3n equivocada de los Mapuches bajo la legislaci\u00f3n antiterrorista ha erosionado significantemente el imperio de la ley en el pa\u00eds.Los activistas Mapuches han culpado a las compa\u00f1\u00edas arboricultoras que introdujeron el eucalipto y el pino, especies no-nativas, lo que ha empeorado la temporada de secas.Alfredo Seguel, de la Asociaci\u00f3n Konapewman Mapuche, escribi\u00f3 en el blog Servindi que los focos de los incendios coincide con una seria infestaci\u00f3n de Sirex noctilio, que emana una toxina que mata al pino, y que la industria forestal ha estado tratando en vano de mantener bajo secreto para evitar el desestabilizar los mercados extranjeros. La introducci\u00f3n de especies no nativas es una amenaza mayor para la biodiversidad en Latinoam\u00e9rica y las enfermedades han sido un factor clave limitante en el cultivo de otras plantaciones de cosecha.Seguel sugiri\u00f3 que no es coincidental el que los incendios hayan ocurrido donde la infestaci\u00f3n del Sirex es m\u00e1s severa y \"en caso de no existir colusi\u00f3n, deber\u00eda poner en alerta a las empresas aseguradoras por siniestro de incendios a favor de las empresas forestales y que deber\u00edan indagar as\u00ed como toda instancia p\u00fablica decente\".La arboricultura comercial \u2013 que hoy controla 3 millones de hect\u00e1reas cultivadas con especies no-nativas \u2013 ha estado al coraz\u00f3n del modelo de la diversificaci\u00f3n de exportaciones en Chile, originalmente dise\u00f1ado por el r\u00e9gimen dictatorial militar de Augusto Pinochet. La industria ha encausado los esfuerzos estales para nutrir la emergencia de las propias multinacionales del pa\u00eds, que est\u00e1 entre las principales razones del por qu\u00e9 Chile fu\u00e9 recibido por la OCDE con los brazos abiertos.Pinochet abri\u00f3 las tierras ind\u00edgenas a la privatizaci\u00f3n, desatando la amarga disputa entre 600,000 de Mapuches y el estado, cuyo fallo en resolver \u00e9sta expone un punto flaco en la redemocratizaci\u00f3n del pa\u00eds.Para pasar los criterios de la OCDE el gobierno de Chile hizo de la regulaci\u00f3n ambiental la pieza central de una serie de reformas clave que respond\u00edan a la agenda de dicha organizaci\u00f3n. Ya en el 2005 la misma OCDE le advert\u00eda a Chile sobre la poca atenci\u00f3n que le hab\u00eda dado al impacto medioambiental de la plantaci\u00f3n de \u00e1rboles y el riesgo para las epidemias que ello representaba.A pesar de la significante reforma, el r\u00e9gimen medioambiental de Chile (pdf) ha sido criticado por permanecer desproporcionadamente a favor del mercado en comparaci\u00f3n con otros pa\u00edses.La OCDE misma ha estado bajo presi\u00f3n para reforzar la protecci\u00f3n a los pueblos ind\u00edgenas. El a\u00f1o pasado James Anaya, relator especial de las Naciones Unidas sobre los derechos de los pueblos ind\u00edgenas, hizo un llamado a la OCDE para la publicaci\u00f3n de reglas m\u00e1s espec\u00edficas sobre derechos ind\u00edgenas para las corporaciones multinacionales.Las reglas m\u00e1s actualizadas de la OCDE (pdf) se\u00f1alan que las empresas tendr\u00e1n que considerar la aplicaci\u00f3n de niveles adicionales para el respeto a los derechos humanos al tratar con grupos tales como los pueblos ind\u00edgenas, comprometiendo a las multinacionales a asegurarse de que como interesados sean \u00e9stos inclu\u00eddos en los procesos de decisi\u00f3n que afectan a sus comunidades, y reiteraron las recomendaciones de la Organizaci\u00f3n Internacional del Trabajo (ILO) en materia de igualdad de oportunidades.Sin embargo, \u00e9stas permanecen lejos de compararse a las extensas pol\u00edticas sobre pueblos ind\u00edgenas articuladas por organizaciones para el desarrollo como el Banco Mundial y el Banco Interamericano de Desarrollo.Marie-France Houde, alta economista en la divisi\u00f3n de inversiones de la OCDE, coment\u00f3 a the Guardian: \"Hemos vuelto ahora nuestra atenci\u00f3n a la implementaci\u00f3n de reglas actualizadas y esperamos la inclusi\u00f3n de m\u00e1s empe\u00f1o en la relaci\u00f3n entre los interesados, incluy\u00e9ndose a los pueblos ind\u00edgenas.\"Existen buenas razones para que Chile resuelva sus disputas con los Mapuches. El sobre calentamiento del planeta tendr\u00e1 un impacto mayor sobre los bosques australes y las negociaciones del cambio clim\u00e1tico han enfatizado la necesidad de reforzar los derechos de los habitantes de los bosques ind\u00edgenas y de aclarar quienes poseen los derechos al carb\u00f3n de madera.", "tags": ["Natural resources and development", "Global development", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Indigenous peoples", "Trees and forests", "Environment"], "title": "Incendios forestales en Chile avivan tensiones sobre derechos de tierras indigenas | Gavin O'Toole"},{"date": "2012-04-26T16:19:45Z", "country": "chile", "content": "They lack the size of China or India. Many have to import natural resources. They have yet to be given a snappy label such as the BRICS. But Chile, Tunisia, Taiwan, Jordan and Kazakhstan have been identified as the possible rising stars in a report that looks at the ability of countries to grasp the opportunities of a rapidly changing global economy.The study from consultants KPMG and the Overseas Development Institute thinktank looked at the long-term potential of 60 emerging market countries and found some surprising names in its roll call of those deemed most fit to face the future.After using economic, governance and social measures, the report found to the researchers' surprise that the five BRICS \u2013 Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa \u2013 were well down the league table.Instead, it tended to be smaller countries that were seen as best geared up to change, seen as the key factor in determining the capacity for sustained, long-term growth.Chile came 30 places ahead of its bigger South American neighbour Brazil, while South Africa, in 26th place, was a long way behind two North African nations \u2013 Tunisia (2nd) and Morocco (6th).China, now the world's second biggest economy after three decades of rapid growth, could manage only 13th place in the list, while India was 23rd and Russia 51st.The report looked at economic diversification, corruption, entrepreneurship, the relationship between business and government, the health of civil society and the investment climate as some of the indicators. It put Bolivia in last place, just ahead of Mozambique and Zimbabwe.\"You only need to look at the impact of recent food, fuel, and financial crises on countries around the world to see the importance of achieving a greater understanding of a country's change readiness,\" said Timothy A A Stiles, KPMG's Global Head of International Development Assistance Services. \"The results of the index are surprising and, when verified, are expected to provide important new insight for policy development and donor action aimed at strengthening government and national capability.\"The idea of a Change Readiness Index was first floated at the World Economic Forum in Davos in 2011 and over the past few months KPMG and the ODI have been using work by the Economist Intelligence Unit to compile their league table.\"Understanding a country's capacity to handle new and unexpected developments is critical to advancing effective policy,\" said ODI director Dr Alison Evans. \"This index begins to paint a new picture and is an exciting starting point. We will be enhancing and refining the index over time to make it an even more reliable measure to help predict a country's economic prospects.\"The report admitted that the high ranking of Tunisia, one of the countries involved in last year's Arab Spring, would spark debate, as would Syria's position at 14th, only one place behind China. Explaining the high rating of Chile over Brazil and Malaysia over Thailand, it said there were often marked differences between the potential of countries within the same continent.\"Chile has made considerable efforts in recent decades to diversify their export structure with noticeable impacts on economic growth. Chile's competitive position is also supported by high levels of domestic and foreign competition and by an efficient financial market.\"It added: \"One significant area of difference is in macroeconomic management, with Brazil demonstrating poorer performance with regard to variables such as the inflation rate and government debt.\"Comparing the two south-east Asian countries, the report said: \"The Malaysian government has been working to improve the business environment, fight crime and corruption and enhance infrastructure and transport. In studying Thailand, analysts identify institutions as one of the most important weaknesses of the country's economy, with recent political instability further undermining the perceived capability of the country to achieve sustained growth.\"The authors of the study said it used evidence from a number of existing indicators with measures identified to capture specific elements of change readiness that were not currently being captured, including risk management capabilities, efforts to promote economic diversification, strong governance and social safety nets.1 Chile2 Tunisia3 Taiwan4 Jordan5 Kazakhstan6 Morocco7 Malaysia8 Uruguay9 Turkey10 Peru11 Botswana12 Costa Rica13 China14 Syria15 NamibiaSource: KPMG", "tags": ["Global development", "Business", "World news", "Chile", "Americas", "Kazakhstan", "Taiwan", "Asia Pacific", "Tunisia", "Middle East and North Africa", "Africa", "Jordan", "KPMG"], "title": "Smaller countries 'best geared up for economic change'"},{"date": "2012-04-26T16:19:45Z", "country": "chile", "content": "They lack the size of China or India. Many have to import natural resources. They have yet to be given a snappy label such as the BRICS. But Chile, Tunisia, Taiwan, Jordan and Kazakhstan have been identified as the possible rising stars in a report that looks at the ability of countries to grasp the opportunities of a rapidly changing global economy.The study from consultants KPMG and the Overseas Development Institute thinktank looked at the long-term potential of 60 emerging market countries and found some surprising names in its roll call of those deemed most fit to face the future.After using economic, governance and social measures, the report found to the researchers' surprise that the five BRICS \u2013 Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa \u2013 were well down the league table.Instead, it tended to be smaller countries that were seen as best geared up to change, seen as the key factor in determining the capacity for sustained, long-term growth.Chile came 30 places ahead of its bigger South American neighbour Brazil, while South Africa, in 26th place, was a long way behind two North African nations \u2013 Tunisia (2nd) and Morocco (6th).China, now the world's second biggest economy after three decades of rapid growth, could manage only 13th place in the list, while India was 23rd and Russia 51st.The report looked at economic diversification, corruption, entrepreneurship, the relationship between business and government, the health of civil society and the investment climate as some of the indicators. It put Bolivia in last place, just ahead of Mozambique and Zimbabwe.\"You only need to look at the impact of recent food, fuel, and financial crises on countries around the world to see the importance of achieving a greater understanding of a country's change readiness,\" said Timothy A A Stiles, KPMG's Global Head of International Development Assistance Services. \"The results of the index are surprising and, when verified, are expected to provide important new insight for policy development and donor action aimed at strengthening government and national capability.\"The idea of a Change Readiness Index was first floated at the World Economic Forum in Davos in 2011 and over the past few months KPMG and the ODI have been using work by the Economist Intelligence Unit to compile their league table.\"Understanding a country's capacity to handle new and unexpected developments is critical to advancing effective policy,\" said ODI director Dr Alison Evans. \"This index begins to paint a new picture and is an exciting starting point. We will be enhancing and refining the index over time to make it an even more reliable measure to help predict a country's economic prospects.\"The report admitted that the high ranking of Tunisia, one of the countries involved in last year's Arab Spring, would spark debate, as would Syria's position at 14th, only one place behind China. Explaining the high rating of Chile over Brazil and Malaysia over Thailand, it said there were often marked differences between the potential of countries within the same continent.\"Chile has made considerable efforts in recent decades to diversify their export structure with noticeable impacts on economic growth. Chile's competitive position is also supported by high levels of domestic and foreign competition and by an efficient financial market.\"It added: \"One significant area of difference is in macroeconomic management, with Brazil demonstrating poorer performance with regard to variables such as the inflation rate and government debt.\"Comparing the two south-east Asian countries, the report said: \"The Malaysian government has been working to improve the business environment, fight crime and corruption and enhance infrastructure and transport. In studying Thailand, analysts identify institutions as one of the most important weaknesses of the country's economy, with recent political instability further undermining the perceived capability of the country to achieve sustained growth.\"The authors of the study said it used evidence from a number of existing indicators with measures identified to capture specific elements of change readiness that were not currently being captured, including risk management capabilities, efforts to promote economic diversification, strong governance and social safety nets.1 Chile2 Tunisia3 Taiwan4 Jordan5 Kazakhstan6 Morocco7 Malaysia8 Uruguay9 Turkey10 Peru11 Botswana12 Costa Rica13 China14 Syria15 NamibiaSource: KPMG", "tags": ["Global development", "Business", "World news", "Chile", "Americas", "Kazakhstan", "Taiwan", "Asia Pacific", "Tunisia", "Middle East and North Africa", "Africa", "Jordan", "KPMG"], "title": "Smaller countries 'best geared up for economic change'"},{"date": "2012-04-02T14:59:22Z", "country": "chile", "content": "She was known as the \"purple witch\" for her arresting lilac rinses and tenacious political outlook. Now the widow of the former East German leader Erich Honecker has broken a 20-year silence to defend the dictatorship, attack those who helped to destroy it, and complain about her pension.Margot Honecker, 84, who as education minister of the German Democratic Republic (GDR) served alongside her dictator husband, describes her homesickness for a \"lost nation\" and calls its demise a tragedy in an interview due to be broadcast on German television on Monday evening.The documentary, which was years in the making due to Honecker's dogged insistence she would never give an interview to \"West German\" media, shows her at home in Chile where she escaped to with her husband after the collapse of the Berlin Wall in the early 1990s.For the first time since 1989 Germans are given an insight into Honecker's life and a full-blown taste of her unforgiving views about a GDR that she continues to idealise. In shockingly frank exchanges in which she cuts a robust, vigorous figure, she defends East Germany to the hilt and refuses to accept any responsibility for its more tyrannical traits, including her own role as the minister responsible for thousands of forced adoptions.\"It is a tragedy that this land no longer exists,\" she tells the interviewer, Eric Friedler, adding that, while she lives in Chile \"my head is in Germany\". She does not, however, mean united Germany, rather the \"better Germany\" of the GDR.Honecker dismisses in a single sentence the fate of hundreds of people who lost their lives trying to escape East Germany for a better life in the west.\"There was no need for them to climb over the wall, to pay for this stupidity with their lives,\" she says.Asked why the revolution of 1989 took place if, as she claims, the country was such a good place to live, she suggests that the demonstrations were driven by the GDR's enemies. \"The GDR also had its foes. That's why we had the Stasi,\" she says, referring to the country's repressive secret police.Questions about the programme of forced adoptions of the children of regime opponents, for which she was responsible, are met with the response: \"It didn't exist\". Equally, the economic demise of the GDR \"is simply untrue\", and she describes victims of the regime as \"criminals who today make out that they were political victims\", who were in some cases \"paid\". Does she have any feelings of guilt? \"It didn't touch me at all. I have a thick skin.\"Friedler said that over the several days he interviewed her, Honecker, who during her 26-year tenure as education minister introduced weapons training to schools, and ordered every teacher to report all incidences of deviation by pupils from the communist line, remained bizarrely detached from reality and resolute in her defence of East Germany.\"Margot Honecker showed no remorse, or discernment, she expressed no word of regret or apology,\" he said.\"She might be in Chile, but she is very well connected to a whole guard of old comrades. She regularly spends hours reading the internet, knows exactly what's going on in Germany, but says her desire for Germany is restricted to\u00a0\u2026\u00a0the GDR.\"She also takes the opportunity to complain about her \u20ac1,500 state pension which she receives every month from Germany, calling it \"derisory\".Honecker predicted the socialist Germany for which she and her husband, who died of cancer in 1994, fought for, would have its chance again. \"We laid a seed in the ground which will one day come to fruition,\" she says. \"We just didn't have enough time to realise our plans.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "Chile", "World news"], "title": "Margot Honecker defends East German dictatorship"},{"date": "2012-04-26T16:19:45Z", "country": "chile", "content": "They lack the size of China or India. Many have to import natural resources. They have yet to be given a snappy label such as the BRICS. But Chile, Tunisia, Taiwan, Jordan and Kazakhstan have been identified as the possible rising stars in a report that looks at the ability of countries to grasp the opportunities of a rapidly changing global economy.The study from consultants KPMG and the Overseas Development Institute thinktank looked at the long-term potential of 60 emerging market countries and found some surprising names in its roll call of those deemed most fit to face the future.After using economic, governance and social measures, the report found to the researchers' surprise that the five BRICS \u2013 Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa \u2013 were well down the league table.Instead, it tended to be smaller countries that were seen as best geared up to change, seen as the key factor in determining the capacity for sustained, long-term growth.Chile came 30 places ahead of its bigger South American neighbour Brazil, while South Africa, in 26th place, was a long way behind two North African nations \u2013 Tunisia (2nd) and Morocco (6th).China, now the world's second biggest economy after three decades of rapid growth, could manage only 13th place in the list, while India was 23rd and Russia 51st.The report looked at economic diversification, corruption, entrepreneurship, the relationship between business and government, the health of civil society and the investment climate as some of the indicators. It put Bolivia in last place, just ahead of Mozambique and Zimbabwe.\"You only need to look at the impact of recent food, fuel, and financial crises on countries around the world to see the importance of achieving a greater understanding of a country's change readiness,\" said Timothy A A Stiles, KPMG's Global Head of International Development Assistance Services. \"The results of the index are surprising and, when verified, are expected to provide important new insight for policy development and donor action aimed at strengthening government and national capability.\"The idea of a Change Readiness Index was first floated at the World Economic Forum in Davos in 2011 and over the past few months KPMG and the ODI have been using work by the Economist Intelligence Unit to compile their league table.\"Understanding a country's capacity to handle new and unexpected developments is critical to advancing effective policy,\" said ODI director Dr Alison Evans. \"This index begins to paint a new picture and is an exciting starting point. We will be enhancing and refining the index over time to make it an even more reliable measure to help predict a country's economic prospects.\"The report admitted that the high ranking of Tunisia, one of the countries involved in last year's Arab Spring, would spark debate, as would Syria's position at 14th, only one place behind China. Explaining the high rating of Chile over Brazil and Malaysia over Thailand, it said there were often marked differences between the potential of countries within the same continent.\"Chile has made considerable efforts in recent decades to diversify their export structure with noticeable impacts on economic growth. Chile's competitive position is also supported by high levels of domestic and foreign competition and by an efficient financial market.\"It added: \"One significant area of difference is in macroeconomic management, with Brazil demonstrating poorer performance with regard to variables such as the inflation rate and government debt.\"Comparing the two south-east Asian countries, the report said: \"The Malaysian government has been working to improve the business environment, fight crime and corruption and enhance infrastructure and transport. In studying Thailand, analysts identify institutions as one of the most important weaknesses of the country's economy, with recent political instability further undermining the perceived capability of the country to achieve sustained growth.\"The authors of the study said it used evidence from a number of existing indicators with measures identified to capture specific elements of change readiness that were not currently being captured, including risk management capabilities, efforts to promote economic diversification, strong governance and social safety nets.1 Chile2 Tunisia3 Taiwan4 Jordan5 Kazakhstan6 Morocco7 Malaysia8 Uruguay9 Turkey10 Peru11 Botswana12 Costa Rica13 China14 Syria15 NamibiaSource: KPMG", "tags": ["Global development", "Business", "World news", "Chile", "Americas", "Kazakhstan", "Taiwan", "Asia Pacific", "Tunisia", "Middle East and North Africa", "Africa", "Jordan", "KPMG"], "title": "Smaller countries 'best geared up for economic change'"},{"date": "2012-04-02T14:59:22Z", "country": "chile", "content": "She was known as the \"purple witch\" for her arresting lilac rinses and tenacious political outlook. Now the widow of the former East German leader Erich Honecker has broken a 20-year silence to defend the dictatorship, attack those who helped to destroy it, and complain about her pension.Margot Honecker, 84, who as education minister of the German Democratic Republic (GDR) served alongside her dictator husband, describes her homesickness for a \"lost nation\" and calls its demise a tragedy in an interview due to be broadcast on German television on Monday evening.The documentary, which was years in the making due to Honecker's dogged insistence she would never give an interview to \"West German\" media, shows her at home in Chile where she escaped to with her husband after the collapse of the Berlin Wall in the early 1990s.For the first time since 1989 Germans are given an insight into Honecker's life and a full-blown taste of her unforgiving views about a GDR that she continues to idealise. In shockingly frank exchanges in which she cuts a robust, vigorous figure, she defends East Germany to the hilt and refuses to accept any responsibility for its more tyrannical traits, including her own role as the minister responsible for thousands of forced adoptions.\"It is a tragedy that this land no longer exists,\" she tells the interviewer, Eric Friedler, adding that, while she lives in Chile \"my head is in Germany\". She does not, however, mean united Germany, rather the \"better Germany\" of the GDR.Honecker dismisses in a single sentence the fate of hundreds of people who lost their lives trying to escape East Germany for a better life in the west.\"There was no need for them to climb over the wall, to pay for this stupidity with their lives,\" she says.Asked why the revolution of 1989 took place if, as she claims, the country was such a good place to live, she suggests that the demonstrations were driven by the GDR's enemies. \"The GDR also had its foes. That's why we had the Stasi,\" she says, referring to the country's repressive secret police.Questions about the programme of forced adoptions of the children of regime opponents, for which she was responsible, are met with the response: \"It didn't exist\". Equally, the economic demise of the GDR \"is simply untrue\", and she describes victims of the regime as \"criminals who today make out that they were political victims\", who were in some cases \"paid\". Does she have any feelings of guilt? \"It didn't touch me at all. I have a thick skin.\"Friedler said that over the several days he interviewed her, Honecker, who during her 26-year tenure as education minister introduced weapons training to schools, and ordered every teacher to report all incidences of deviation by pupils from the communist line, remained bizarrely detached from reality and resolute in her defence of East Germany.\"Margot Honecker showed no remorse, or discernment, she expressed no word of regret or apology,\" he said.\"She might be in Chile, but she is very well connected to a whole guard of old comrades. She regularly spends hours reading the internet, knows exactly what's going on in Germany, but says her desire for Germany is restricted to\u00a0\u2026\u00a0the GDR.\"She also takes the opportunity to complain about her \u20ac1,500 state pension which she receives every month from Germany, calling it \"derisory\".Honecker predicted the socialist Germany for which she and her husband, who died of cancer in 1994, fought for, would have its chance again. \"We laid a seed in the ground which will one day come to fruition,\" she says. \"We just didn't have enough time to realise our plans.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "Chile", "World news"], "title": "Margot Honecker defends East German dictatorship"},{"date": "2012-06-18T15:48:32Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In a bungalow in suburban Santiago a heavily pregnant woman is lying on a bed of grass. Dressed in her nightgown her face is tranquil; a few beads of sweat gathering at her temples the only sign of a concealed distress. On closer inspection the greenery is arranged in ritualistic fashion, sticks of celery fanning out around the body of the woman like a halo, and as the camera pans down the expectant mother's body a splash of red flashes across the screen.This is the closing sequence of new film, \"Apio Verde\", shown for the first time in Chile this April. Literally translated as \"Green Celery\" - a reference to the practice of using a stick of celery to perform an abortion \u2013 the film is based on the 2010 case of Claudia Pizarro, a 28-year-old woman denied both an abortion and treatment for cancer despite being pregnant with an anencephalic foetus.Chile is one of only five countries worldwide to prohibit abortion in all instances. This includes cases of rape, foetal malformation, therapeutic abortion, when a pregnancy puts the woman's life at risk, and even ectopic pregnancy. 'This is not a fiction, it's a psychological reality,\" director Franscec Morales says, keen to emphasis the reality behind the film's shocking portrayal.\"Many women feel to be true 'human coffins,'\" Karen Esp\u00edndola explains. \"We are women who had to think, not of preparing the bedroom of our future child but his funeral,\" she says blinking back tears.Like Claudia Pizarro, whose daughter only lived an hour, Karen discovered in 2008 that she would give birth to a child with a terminal illness. Desperate for an abortion to avoid the despair of watching her child die, her pleas were ignored. Karen gave birth to a son Osvaldito in early 2009. He died two years later. She has campaigned for a change in the law ever since.In the last 20 years more than 15 abortion-related bills have been submitted to Congress for discussion. Half of these have called to increase existing penalties. In April this year three bills to decriminalize abortion, including therapeutic abortion, were rejected, despite a poll conducted by a Chilean university showing that 63 percent of Chileans support abortion to save the mother's life.\"In Chile we are forcing our women to be martyrs, which is something unthinkable in a democracy,\" Karen says outraged. \"This whole process is a real psychological torture, one that the State encourages against its own citizenship.\"In the most recent debate on the topic, Jaime Ma\u00f1alich, Chile's health minister, cited increased costs for public sector healthcare as a key-determining factor in his reason to vote against the legislation. According to the Pan American Health Organization, abortion, despite being illegal, was the third leading cause of maternal mortality in Chile between 2000 and 2002, accounting for 12% of all maternal deaths.Social conservatism among both politicians and the population is a huge obstacle to legalizing what the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has called \"excessively restrictive abortion laws\". Michele Bachelet, the country's first female president, and now head of UN Women, made significant steps towards legalizing the morning-after pill in 2008 but never even touched the issue of abortion.According to Claudia Lagos Lira, author of \"Abortion in Chile\", even left-wing politicians avoid the issue of abortion, fearful of upsetting the Catholic Church. Chile is one of the most Christian countries in the world: 88 percent of the population is Catholic or Evangelical. \"Religion has a very powerful influence ever the country,\" Lira says. \"Many pharmacies refuse to stock the morning-after pill even though it is now legal and Chile's most recent Aids campaign failed to even mention the word 'condom'.\"With enough money, an abortion is a possibility for any Chilean woman. Many wealthy women travel abroad for the procedure. Clandestine abortions cost anywhere between \u00a350 for a packet of misopostrol pills (tablets that can be inserted into the vagina to induce an abortion), and \u00a31,200 for an appointment in a private clinic.But these options are not open to all women. Chile, despite being widely applauded as the most developed country in Latin America, was named the most socially unjust state in the OECD's 38-country membership in 2011. Many women are forced to resort to cheap and unsafe means of abortion such as self-inflicted torture, self-poisoning and inserting sharp objects, like knitting needles, into the vagina.\"The problem with clandestine abortions in Chile is a matter of equality,\" says Dr. Beatriz Sagaldo, a GP working for the Department of Public Health at the University of Valpara\u00edso. \"Women with resources practice abortions safely and in good health, while lower class women practice unhealthy abortions and risk their own lives. This is the reality in our country.\"In recent years the advent of misopostrol, easily bought on the internet and selfadministered, has undoubtedly improved the safety of abortion in the country. According to figures from the Chilean Institute of Reproductive Medicine, the number of women entering hospitals between 1990-2000 as a result of complications from attempted abortions decreased from 36 to 29 per 100,000 women. The world average is 14 per 100,000.However, the similarity between the effects of medical abortions and natural miscarriage has resulted in increased hostility from hospital staff towards all women treated for such complications. It is also the doctors in Chile who most often turn women over to the police: if found guilty abortion carries a five-year prison sentence.\"Women, confronted with the knowledge that their child will be born withabnormalities, live in fear instead of being supported,\" one woman said. \"It's an atmosphere of complete claustrophobia with nowhere to turn. Doctors don't help, the law is against you, and many don't have the money to pay for a solution.\" Paradoxically, improvements to the safety of abortion in Chile is good news for women's immediate health concerns but does nothing to help highlight the severity and unpopularity of the law in the long run. In fact it removes the urgency required to lead an international campaign to end the ban, as well as relegating the need for social and psychological provision for women who have had abortions or, like Karen, have been victims of the current legislation.For Claudia, Karen and many others like them, the damage is done. \"The experience cannot be deleted\" Karen says. Any change in the law, unlikely to happen soon, will come too late for her but she remains determined: \"Although politicians continue this cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment of Chilean women, every time we fight we gain consciousness and social legitimacy.\"", "tags": ["International Development Journalism competition", "Development competition"], "title": "Women forced to be 'human coffins'"},{"date": "2012-04-26T16:19:45Z", "country": "chile", "content": "They lack the size of China or India. Many have to import natural resources. They have yet to be given a snappy label such as the BRICS. But Chile, Tunisia, Taiwan, Jordan and Kazakhstan have been identified as the possible rising stars in a report that looks at the ability of countries to grasp the opportunities of a rapidly changing global economy.The study from consultants KPMG and the Overseas Development Institute thinktank looked at the long-term potential of 60 emerging market countries and found some surprising names in its roll call of those deemed most fit to face the future.After using economic, governance and social measures, the report found to the researchers' surprise that the five BRICS \u2013 Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa \u2013 were well down the league table.Instead, it tended to be smaller countries that were seen as best geared up to change, seen as the key factor in determining the capacity for sustained, long-term growth.Chile came 30 places ahead of its bigger South American neighbour Brazil, while South Africa, in 26th place, was a long way behind two North African nations \u2013 Tunisia (2nd) and Morocco (6th).China, now the world's second biggest economy after three decades of rapid growth, could manage only 13th place in the list, while India was 23rd and Russia 51st.The report looked at economic diversification, corruption, entrepreneurship, the relationship between business and government, the health of civil society and the investment climate as some of the indicators. It put Bolivia in last place, just ahead of Mozambique and Zimbabwe.\"You only need to look at the impact of recent food, fuel, and financial crises on countries around the world to see the importance of achieving a greater understanding of a country's change readiness,\" said Timothy A A Stiles, KPMG's Global Head of International Development Assistance Services. \"The results of the index are surprising and, when verified, are expected to provide important new insight for policy development and donor action aimed at strengthening government and national capability.\"The idea of a Change Readiness Index was first floated at the World Economic Forum in Davos in 2011 and over the past few months KPMG and the ODI have been using work by the Economist Intelligence Unit to compile their league table.\"Understanding a country's capacity to handle new and unexpected developments is critical to advancing effective policy,\" said ODI director Dr Alison Evans. \"This index begins to paint a new picture and is an exciting starting point. We will be enhancing and refining the index over time to make it an even more reliable measure to help predict a country's economic prospects.\"The report admitted that the high ranking of Tunisia, one of the countries involved in last year's Arab Spring, would spark debate, as would Syria's position at 14th, only one place behind China. Explaining the high rating of Chile over Brazil and Malaysia over Thailand, it said there were often marked differences between the potential of countries within the same continent.\"Chile has made considerable efforts in recent decades to diversify their export structure with noticeable impacts on economic growth. Chile's competitive position is also supported by high levels of domestic and foreign competition and by an efficient financial market.\"It added: \"One significant area of difference is in macroeconomic management, with Brazil demonstrating poorer performance with regard to variables such as the inflation rate and government debt.\"Comparing the two south-east Asian countries, the report said: \"The Malaysian government has been working to improve the business environment, fight crime and corruption and enhance infrastructure and transport. In studying Thailand, analysts identify institutions as one of the most important weaknesses of the country's economy, with recent political instability further undermining the perceived capability of the country to achieve sustained growth.\"The authors of the study said it used evidence from a number of existing indicators with measures identified to capture specific elements of change readiness that were not currently being captured, including risk management capabilities, efforts to promote economic diversification, strong governance and social safety nets.1 Chile2 Tunisia3 Taiwan4 Jordan5 Kazakhstan6 Morocco7 Malaysia8 Uruguay9 Turkey10 Peru11 Botswana12 Costa Rica13 China14 Syria15 NamibiaSource: KPMG", "tags": ["Global development", "Business", "World news", "Chile", "Americas", "Kazakhstan", "Taiwan", "Asia Pacific", "Tunisia", "Middle East and North Africa", "Africa", "Jordan", "KPMG"], "title": "Smaller countries 'best geared up for economic change'"},{"date": "2012-04-02T14:59:22Z", "country": "chile", "content": "She was known as the \"purple witch\" for her arresting lilac rinses and tenacious political outlook. Now the widow of the former East German leader Erich Honecker has broken a 20-year silence to defend the dictatorship, attack those who helped to destroy it, and complain about her pension.Margot Honecker, 84, who as education minister of the German Democratic Republic (GDR) served alongside her dictator husband, describes her homesickness for a \"lost nation\" and calls its demise a tragedy in an interview due to be broadcast on German television on Monday evening.The documentary, which was years in the making due to Honecker's dogged insistence she would never give an interview to \"West German\" media, shows her at home in Chile where she escaped to with her husband after the collapse of the Berlin Wall in the early 1990s.For the first time since 1989 Germans are given an insight into Honecker's life and a full-blown taste of her unforgiving views about a GDR that she continues to idealise. In shockingly frank exchanges in which she cuts a robust, vigorous figure, she defends East Germany to the hilt and refuses to accept any responsibility for its more tyrannical traits, including her own role as the minister responsible for thousands of forced adoptions.\"It is a tragedy that this land no longer exists,\" she tells the interviewer, Eric Friedler, adding that, while she lives in Chile \"my head is in Germany\". She does not, however, mean united Germany, rather the \"better Germany\" of the GDR.Honecker dismisses in a single sentence the fate of hundreds of people who lost their lives trying to escape East Germany for a better life in the west.\"There was no need for them to climb over the wall, to pay for this stupidity with their lives,\" she says.Asked why the revolution of 1989 took place if, as she claims, the country was such a good place to live, she suggests that the demonstrations were driven by the GDR's enemies. \"The GDR also had its foes. That's why we had the Stasi,\" she says, referring to the country's repressive secret police.Questions about the programme of forced adoptions of the children of regime opponents, for which she was responsible, are met with the response: \"It didn't exist\". Equally, the economic demise of the GDR \"is simply untrue\", and she describes victims of the regime as \"criminals who today make out that they were political victims\", who were in some cases \"paid\". Does she have any feelings of guilt? \"It didn't touch me at all. I have a thick skin.\"Friedler said that over the several days he interviewed her, Honecker, who during her 26-year tenure as education minister introduced weapons training to schools, and ordered every teacher to report all incidences of deviation by pupils from the communist line, remained bizarrely detached from reality and resolute in her defence of East Germany.\"Margot Honecker showed no remorse, or discernment, she expressed no word of regret or apology,\" he said.\"She might be in Chile, but she is very well connected to a whole guard of old comrades. She regularly spends hours reading the internet, knows exactly what's going on in Germany, but says her desire for Germany is restricted to\u00a0\u2026\u00a0the GDR.\"She also takes the opportunity to complain about her \u20ac1,500 state pension which she receives every month from Germany, calling it \"derisory\".Honecker predicted the socialist Germany for which she and her husband, who died of cancer in 1994, fought for, would have its chance again. \"We laid a seed in the ground which will one day come to fruition,\" she says. \"We just didn't have enough time to realise our plans.\"", "tags": ["Germany", "Europe", "Chile", "World news"], "title": "Margot Honecker defends East German dictatorship"},{"date": "2012-06-18T15:48:32Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In a bungalow in suburban Santiago a heavily pregnant woman is lying on a bed of grass. Dressed in her nightgown her face is tranquil; a few beads of sweat gathering at her temples the only sign of a concealed distress. On closer inspection the greenery is arranged in ritualistic fashion, sticks of celery fanning out around the body of the woman like a halo, and as the camera pans down the expectant mother's body a splash of red flashes across the screen.This is the closing sequence of new film, \"Apio Verde\", shown for the first time in Chile this April. Literally translated as \"Green Celery\" - a reference to the practice of using a stick of celery to perform an abortion \u2013 the film is based on the 2010 case of Claudia Pizarro, a 28-year-old woman denied both an abortion and treatment for cancer despite being pregnant with an anencephalic foetus.Chile is one of only five countries worldwide to prohibit abortion in all instances. This includes cases of rape, foetal malformation, therapeutic abortion, when a pregnancy puts the woman's life at risk, and even ectopic pregnancy. 'This is not a fiction, it's a psychological reality,\" director Franscec Morales says, keen to emphasis the reality behind the film's shocking portrayal.\"Many women feel to be true 'human coffins,'\" Karen Esp\u00edndola explains. \"We are women who had to think, not of preparing the bedroom of our future child but his funeral,\" she says blinking back tears.Like Claudia Pizarro, whose daughter only lived an hour, Karen discovered in 2008 that she would give birth to a child with a terminal illness. Desperate for an abortion to avoid the despair of watching her child die, her pleas were ignored. Karen gave birth to a son Osvaldito in early 2009. He died two years later. She has campaigned for a change in the law ever since.In the last 20 years more than 15 abortion-related bills have been submitted to Congress for discussion. Half of these have called to increase existing penalties. In April this year three bills to decriminalize abortion, including therapeutic abortion, were rejected, despite a poll conducted by a Chilean university showing that 63 percent of Chileans support abortion to save the mother's life.\"In Chile we are forcing our women to be martyrs, which is something unthinkable in a democracy,\" Karen says outraged. \"This whole process is a real psychological torture, one that the State encourages against its own citizenship.\"In the most recent debate on the topic, Jaime Ma\u00f1alich, Chile's health minister, cited increased costs for public sector healthcare as a key-determining factor in his reason to vote against the legislation. According to the Pan American Health Organization, abortion, despite being illegal, was the third leading cause of maternal mortality in Chile between 2000 and 2002, accounting for 12% of all maternal deaths.Social conservatism among both politicians and the population is a huge obstacle to legalizing what the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights has called \"excessively restrictive abortion laws\". Michele Bachelet, the country's first female president, and now head of UN Women, made significant steps towards legalizing the morning-after pill in 2008 but never even touched the issue of abortion.According to Claudia Lagos Lira, author of \"Abortion in Chile\", even left-wing politicians avoid the issue of abortion, fearful of upsetting the Catholic Church. Chile is one of the most Christian countries in the world: 88 percent of the population is Catholic or Evangelical. \"Religion has a very powerful influence ever the country,\" Lira says. \"Many pharmacies refuse to stock the morning-after pill even though it is now legal and Chile's most recent Aids campaign failed to even mention the word 'condom'.\"With enough money, an abortion is a possibility for any Chilean woman. Many wealthy women travel abroad for the procedure. Clandestine abortions cost anywhere between \u00a350 for a packet of misopostrol pills (tablets that can be inserted into the vagina to induce an abortion), and \u00a31,200 for an appointment in a private clinic.But these options are not open to all women. Chile, despite being widely applauded as the most developed country in Latin America, was named the most socially unjust state in the OECD's 38-country membership in 2011. Many women are forced to resort to cheap and unsafe means of abortion such as self-inflicted torture, self-poisoning and inserting sharp objects, like knitting needles, into the vagina.\"The problem with clandestine abortions in Chile is a matter of equality,\" says Dr. Beatriz Sagaldo, a GP working for the Department of Public Health at the University of Valpara\u00edso. \"Women with resources practice abortions safely and in good health, while lower class women practice unhealthy abortions and risk their own lives. This is the reality in our country.\"In recent years the advent of misopostrol, easily bought on the internet and selfadministered, has undoubtedly improved the safety of abortion in the country. According to figures from the Chilean Institute of Reproductive Medicine, the number of women entering hospitals between 1990-2000 as a result of complications from attempted abortions decreased from 36 to 29 per 100,000 women. The world average is 14 per 100,000.However, the similarity between the effects of medical abortions and natural miscarriage has resulted in increased hostility from hospital staff towards all women treated for such complications. It is also the doctors in Chile who most often turn women over to the police: if found guilty abortion carries a five-year prison sentence.\"Women, confronted with the knowledge that their child will be born withabnormalities, live in fear instead of being supported,\" one woman said. \"It's an atmosphere of complete claustrophobia with nowhere to turn. Doctors don't help, the law is against you, and many don't have the money to pay for a solution.\" Paradoxically, improvements to the safety of abortion in Chile is good news for women's immediate health concerns but does nothing to help highlight the severity and unpopularity of the law in the long run. In fact it removes the urgency required to lead an international campaign to end the ban, as well as relegating the need for social and psychological provision for women who have had abortions or, like Karen, have been victims of the current legislation.For Claudia, Karen and many others like them, the damage is done. \"The experience cannot be deleted\" Karen says. Any change in the law, unlikely to happen soon, will come too late for her but she remains determined: \"Although politicians continue this cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment of Chilean women, every time we fight we gain consciousness and social legitimacy.\"", "tags": ["International Development Journalism competition", "Development competition"], "title": "Women forced to be 'human coffins'"},{"date": "2012-06-14T12:56:13Z", "country": "chile", "content": "My friend Jan Fairley, who has died of cancer aged 63, trained as a musicologist. Her knowledge of and passion for music from Spain and Cuba, Chile and Venezuela, enriched British understanding and helped win UK audiences for Latin artists as they began to tour Britain in the 1980s and 90s. A fine journalist, Jan wrote for the Guardian and the Scotsman, fRoots and Songlines magazines, and made documentaries for BBC Radio 4, her focus always being on Latin culture and human rights.From 1990 to 1994 Jan presented Earthbeat, a world-music radio show, for Radio Scotland. From 1995 to 1997 she was director of the Edinburgh book festival and is credited with attracting noted authors, infusing a strong Latin element and ensuring that human rights were on the agenda. Jan also compiled many CDs of Latin music, most recently The Beginner's Guide to Flamenco, a triple-CD set issued in April 2012.Jan was born in Birkenhead, Liverpool, and grew up in Ellesmere Port. She studied at Essex University, then settled in Temuco, Chile, in 1971. She taught literature at Temuco University and while there was joined by her boyfriend, Stephen Platt. They married in 1972. The couple witnessed the military coup that overthrew the government of President Salvador Allende in 1973 and found themselves in danger. Warned that the supporters of General Augusto Pinochet were looking for them, Jan and Stephen had to be smuggled across Chile to the British embassy in Santiago, where they took refuge. The crushing of democracy that Jan witnessed in Chile ensured that she would spend the rest of her life championing human rights and refugee organisations.Back in the UK, she completed an MPhil in Latin American studies at Oxford University, followed by a PhD in ethnomusicology at Edinburgh University. Settling in Scotland, Jan lectured widely, most often at the Liverpool University, wrote and, after separating from Stephen, raised her three children. She approached everything she did with a fierce commitment and great humour, always speaking her mind, unafraid to upset while befriending people from across the globe. She loved to sing and dance and to walk Scotland's coast. At the time of her death she was working on a book about Cuba's female musicians.She is survived by her sister, Mary; her brother, Rod; her children, Rachel, Tom and Fran; and two grandchildren.", "tags": ["World music", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Jan Fairley obituary"},{"date": "2012-09-19T04:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "There may be a cluster of wow-factor hotels in and around Torres del Paine national park, but they come with minimum stays and a hefty price tag. Explora Patagonia trips, for example, cost from around \u00a31,750pp for a four-night minimum stay (full-board with daily excursions), while a four-night stay at Tierra Patagonia on the edge of the park costs $2,450 per person. For more flexibility, try cheaper but still chic options in Puerto Natales, just over an hour's drive to the park entrance. Most hotels offer their own excursions at reasonable rates \u2013 in the park, or in more off-the-beaten-track areas \u2013 or will point you towards someone who does. You'll also experience real-life Patagonia in this quirky frontier town: settled by Scottish and German immigrants in 1911, it has a cosmopolitan vibe and a thriving foodie scene.This rustic, family-run B&B is set in two of the town's traditional clapboard houses. The 15 rooms \u2013 11 of them en suite \u2013 are homely, liberally sprinkled with weavings and hand-embroidered cushions. The common room is heated by a woodburning stove and stuffed with vintage furniture, with lots of places for a post-hike flop. There's a large blackboard on the wall where the in-house agency posts tour information. The ground-floor cafe sells delicious pastries and great coffee, and there's a small deli stocking organic and anti-allergy products. \u2022 +56 61 411945,\u00a0hostelamerindia.com. Doubles from US$25 B&BDon't be fooled by the office-block-style exterior. Step inside this Puerto Natales stalwart and you'll find the dark colours and heavy furniture have been replaced by a slate-and-stainless-steel lobby, a light-filled dining area with wooden beams and designer chairs, sleek sofas and white walls adorned with modern art. It was completely remodelled last year by Roberto Cancino, the interior designer of the Natalino (see below), and the 28 rooms follow the same minimalist lines, with neutral colours and lots of wood. Just one block from the main square, it's open all year round and will let you leave your luggage if you go off trekking. \u2022 +56 61 712180,\u00a0martingusinde.com. Doubles from $85 B&BKau means \"house\" in the local Tehuelche language, and a group of friends have turned one of the oldest clapboard houses in town into a chic, five-room B&B. The first-floor rooms all have views over Last Hope Sound \u2013 from the corner room's double-height windows you can see all the way to the Paine mountains. The small, bright rooms have cool design touches \u2013 wicker lampshades, handwoven throws, pebble coat hooks \u2013 and the wooden wall behind the bed has been recycled from the frames of greenhouses. The open-plan ground floor has plenty of seating, the Coffeemaker cafe and bar plus the services of Antares Travel, which offers kayaking, biking, horse riding and trekking adventures. \u2022 +56 61 415978,\u00a0kaulodge.com. Doubles from $45 B&BWhile the history of Bories House is inextricably linked to The Singular (see below) \u2013 it was once home to the factory's manager \u2013 its style is very different. Perched on the shore of Last Hope Sound with views across to the Serrano and Balmaceda glaciers, it's surrounded by 25 acres of grassland with grazing horses. The seven bedrooms mix antiques with contemporary comforts, including free Wi-Fi, and the restaurant serves classic Patagonian ingredients \u2013 fish, seafood, lamb \u2013 with a modern twist. Explore the surrounding countryside on horseback or by bike, or ask the hotel to help arrange trips further afield. \u2022 +56 61 412221,\u00a0borieshouse.com. Doubles from $95, three-bedroom cottage $200-$300 B&BWith its striking ergonomic design, centrally located Hotel IF stands out from its diminutive clapboard neighbours and is committed to sustainability \u2013 there's even recycled tea bag art in the dining area. Light streams through the glass wall of the atrium, providing natural heat and ventilation. A staircase dramatically zig-zags its way to the 15 small but perfectly formed rooms, where you'll find white walls and lots of native lenga wood. The two suites each have their own Jacuzzi and there's also a hot tub for sharing and stunning views from the third-floor terrace. The hotel specialises in four- and five-day fly-fishing itineraries but will also arrange day trips to the national parks, and mountain-biking tours. \u2022 +56 61 410312,\u00a0hotelifpatagonia.com. Doubles from $115 B&BThis hilltop hotel, a 10-minute walk from the centre, has panoramic views over Last Hope Sound and the mountains beyond. A newly built wing brings the room total to 28, and they all make the most of a small space, with wood-panelled walls and splashes of colour from handwoven woollen blankets. The large, open-plan lounge bar is kept cosy with an open fire and, if you don't want to go into town, the restaurant serves local dishes that you can pair with a good choice of South American wines. To ease any post-trek aches and pains, wend your way down the wooden walkway to the spa and the free outdoor hot tubs for spectacular sunset views. \u2022 +56 61 414168,\u00a0weskar.cl. Doubles from $115 B&BWhat Natalino lacks in waterfront views, it makes up for with a construction inspired by the Patagonian landscape. The white-and-glass facade \u2013 which turns icy-blue at night \u2013 resembles a glacier. Inside, a sparkling granite staircase cuts through three-storey-high concrete walls, as though it were a crack in the ice. The 21 minimalist rooms have white walls, slate floors, dark-wood furniture and flatscreen TVs, and the top-floor suite has a double-height loft space, perfect for families. There's also a heated indoor pool with views over town and beyond, a small fitness centre and lounge bar. \u2022 +56 61 414345,\u00a0hotelnatalino.com. Doubles from $144 B&BSet on the waterfront of Last Hope Sound, Indigo was designed to resemble a barn \u2013 externally at least. Most of its 29 rooms, lined with blonde wood and concrete tongue and groove, look out over the water and are reached via a stunning atrium with interlinking stairs and walkways. You can take in the view from the freestanding tub in the expansive suite, or head to the top-floor spa and one of the three free hot tubs for even better views. Built like the prow of a ship, the original triangular building houses the Mama Rosa restaurant and bar, where you can feast on organic steak washed down with a pisco sour made with calafate (a native berry) and watch the ever-changing sky through the enormous picture windows. \u2022 +56 61 413609, indigopatagonia.com. Doubles from $285 B&BOn the edge of town, this long, lean hotel was built to blend into its hilltop surroundings, with a living grass roof and exterior walls covered in grass bricks, just like those used by the region's first settlers. Its low-slung, ergonomic design means it maintains heat and the 22 rooms are plain but comfortable, made of rugged materials \u2013 concrete, slate and wood \u2013 softened with\u00a0throws and sheepskin rugs. They all look over Last Hope Sound, as do the two free alfresco hot tubs. If you need help with tours, the friendly staff can point you in the direction of operators in town. \u2022 +56 22 2123021,\u00a0altiplanico.cl. Doubles $270 B&BMore than just a hotel, The Singular is a piece of Patagonian history. European settlers introduced sheep to the region in the 1800s and this cavernous building, close to the village of Puerto Bories \u2013 4km from Puerto Natales \u2013 operated as a meatpacking and cold storage factory for 70 years. After a 10-year restoration, the new wing channels industrial chic with expanses of metal, glass, concrete and brick. Its 57 lofty rooms \u2013 along with the spa and indoor-outdoor swimming pool \u2013 have floor-to-ceiling views over snow-capped peaks and the icy waters of Last Hope Sound. The original double-height warehouse now houses a display of massive Victorian machinery, as well as the atmospheric bar and restaurant, where you can try local delicacies, from king crab to Magellan lamb and guanaco steak. There are over 20 top-notch excursions on offer, both in and out of the park, but this is also a great place for a luxurious splurge after a long trek. \u2022 +56 61 722030,\u00a0thesingular.com. Doubles from $350 B&B", "tags": ["Patagonia holidays", "Hotels", "Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Top 10s", "Bed and breakfasts", "Adventure travel"], "title": "Top 10 hotels in Puerto Natales, Patagonia, Chile"},{"date": "2012-09-19T04:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "There may be a cluster of wow-factor hotels in and around Torres del Paine national park, but they come with minimum stays and a hefty price tag. Explora Patagonia trips, for example, cost from around \u00a31,750pp for a four-night minimum stay (full-board with daily excursions), while a four-night stay at Tierra Patagonia on the edge of the park costs $2,450 per person. For more flexibility, try cheaper but still chic options in Puerto Natales, just over an hour's drive to the park entrance. Most hotels offer their own excursions at reasonable rates \u2013 in the park, or in more off-the-beaten-track areas \u2013 or will point you towards someone who does. You'll also experience real-life Patagonia in this quirky frontier town: settled by Scottish and German immigrants in 1911, it has a cosmopolitan vibe and a thriving foodie scene.This rustic, family-run B&B is set in two of the town's traditional clapboard houses. The 15 rooms \u2013 11 of them en suite \u2013 are homely, liberally sprinkled with weavings and hand-embroidered cushions. The common room is heated by a woodburning stove and stuffed with vintage furniture, with lots of places for a post-hike flop. There's a large blackboard on the wall where the in-house agency posts tour information. The ground-floor cafe sells delicious pastries and great coffee, and there's a small deli stocking organic and anti-allergy products. \u2022 +56 61 411945,\u00a0hostelamerindia.com. Doubles from US$25 B&BDon't be fooled by the office-block-style exterior. Step inside this Puerto Natales stalwart and you'll find the dark colours and heavy furniture have been replaced by a slate-and-stainless-steel lobby, a light-filled dining area with wooden beams and designer chairs, sleek sofas and white walls adorned with modern art. It was completely remodelled last year by Roberto Cancino, the interior designer of the Natalino (see below), and the 28 rooms follow the same minimalist lines, with neutral colours and lots of wood. Just one block from the main square, it's open all year round and will let you leave your luggage if you go off trekking. \u2022 +56 61 712180,\u00a0martingusinde.com. Doubles from $85 B&BKau means \"house\" in the local Tehuelche language, and a group of friends have turned one of the oldest clapboard houses in town into a chic, five-room B&B. The first-floor rooms all have views over Last Hope Sound \u2013 from the corner room's double-height windows you can see all the way to the Paine mountains. The small, bright rooms have cool design touches \u2013 wicker lampshades, handwoven throws, pebble coat hooks \u2013 and the wooden wall behind the bed has been recycled from the frames of greenhouses. The open-plan ground floor has plenty of seating, the Coffeemaker cafe and bar plus the services of Antares Travel, which offers kayaking, biking, horse riding and trekking adventures. \u2022 +56 61 415978,\u00a0kaulodge.com. Doubles from $45 B&BWhile the history of Bories House is inextricably linked to The Singular (see below) \u2013 it was once home to the factory's manager \u2013 its style is very different. Perched on the shore of Last Hope Sound with views across to the Serrano and Balmaceda glaciers, it's surrounded by 25 acres of grassland with grazing horses. The seven bedrooms mix antiques with contemporary comforts, including free Wi-Fi, and the restaurant serves classic Patagonian ingredients \u2013 fish, seafood, lamb \u2013 with a modern twist. Explore the surrounding countryside on horseback or by bike, or ask the hotel to help arrange trips further afield. \u2022 +56 61 412221,\u00a0borieshouse.com. Doubles from $95, three-bedroom cottage $200-$300 B&BWith its striking ergonomic design, centrally located Hotel IF stands out from its diminutive clapboard neighbours and is committed to sustainability \u2013 there's even recycled tea bag art in the dining area. Light streams through the glass wall of the atrium, providing natural heat and ventilation. A staircase dramatically zig-zags its way to the 15 small but perfectly formed rooms, where you'll find white walls and lots of native lenga wood. The two suites each have their own Jacuzzi and there's also a hot tub for sharing and stunning views from the third-floor terrace. The hotel specialises in four- and five-day fly-fishing itineraries but will also arrange day trips to the national parks, and mountain-biking tours. \u2022 +56 61 410312,\u00a0hotelifpatagonia.com. Doubles from $115 B&BThis hilltop hotel, a 10-minute walk from the centre, has panoramic views over Last Hope Sound and the mountains beyond. A newly built wing brings the room total to 28, and they all make the most of a small space, with wood-panelled walls and splashes of colour from handwoven woollen blankets. The large, open-plan lounge bar is kept cosy with an open fire and, if you don't want to go into town, the restaurant serves local dishes that you can pair with a good choice of South American wines. To ease any post-trek aches and pains, wend your way down the wooden walkway to the spa and the free outdoor hot tubs for spectacular sunset views. \u2022 +56 61 414168,\u00a0weskar.cl. Doubles from $115 B&BWhat Natalino lacks in waterfront views, it makes up for with a construction inspired by the Patagonian landscape. The white-and-glass facade \u2013 which turns icy-blue at night \u2013 resembles a glacier. Inside, a sparkling granite staircase cuts through three-storey-high concrete walls, as though it were a crack in the ice. The 21 minimalist rooms have white walls, slate floors, dark-wood furniture and flatscreen TVs, and the top-floor suite has a double-height loft space, perfect for families. There's also a heated indoor pool with views over town and beyond, a small fitness centre and lounge bar. \u2022 +56 61 414345,\u00a0hotelnatalino.com. Doubles from $144 B&BSet on the waterfront of Last Hope Sound, Indigo was designed to resemble a barn \u2013 externally at least. Most of its 29 rooms, lined with blonde wood and concrete tongue and groove, look out over the water and are reached via a stunning atrium with interlinking stairs and walkways. You can take in the view from the freestanding tub in the expansive suite, or head to the top-floor spa and one of the three free hot tubs for even better views. Built like the prow of a ship, the original triangular building houses the Mama Rosa restaurant and bar, where you can feast on organic steak washed down with a pisco sour made with calafate (a native berry) and watch the ever-changing sky through the enormous picture windows. \u2022 +56 61 413609, indigopatagonia.com. Doubles from $285 B&BOn the edge of town, this long, lean hotel was built to blend into its hilltop surroundings, with a living grass roof and exterior walls covered in grass bricks, just like those used by the region's first settlers. Its low-slung, ergonomic design means it maintains heat and the 22 rooms are plain but comfortable, made of rugged materials \u2013 concrete, slate and wood \u2013 softened with\u00a0throws and sheepskin rugs. They all look over Last Hope Sound, as do the two free alfresco hot tubs. If you need help with tours, the friendly staff can point you in the direction of operators in town. \u2022 +56 22 2123021,\u00a0altiplanico.cl. Doubles $270 B&BMore than just a hotel, The Singular is a piece of Patagonian history. European settlers introduced sheep to the region in the 1800s and this cavernous building, close to the village of Puerto Bories \u2013 4km from Puerto Natales \u2013 operated as a meatpacking and cold storage factory for 70 years. After a 10-year restoration, the new wing channels industrial chic with expanses of metal, glass, concrete and brick. Its 57 lofty rooms \u2013 along with the spa and indoor-outdoor swimming pool \u2013 have floor-to-ceiling views over snow-capped peaks and the icy waters of Last Hope Sound. The original double-height warehouse now houses a display of massive Victorian machinery, as well as the atmospheric bar and restaurant, where you can try local delicacies, from king crab to Magellan lamb and guanaco steak. There are over 20 top-notch excursions on offer, both in and out of the park, but this is also a great place for a luxurious splurge after a long trek. \u2022 +56 61 722030,\u00a0thesingular.com. Doubles from $350 B&B", "tags": ["Patagonia holidays", "Hotels", "Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Top 10s", "Bed and breakfasts", "Adventure travel"], "title": "Top 10 hotels in Puerto Natales, Patagonia, Chile"},{"date": "2012-08-30T16:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Up to 200,000 people marched through Santiago yesterday. Students and teachers protesting over education were supported by the Chilean Trade Union Congress, which called on members to join the march. It ended with police turning water cannon and teargas on the protesters. But the protests aren't going away. For over a year now, this revolt has been developing. Mass protests and general strikes have shaken the government, as when 600,000 workers walked out last August.The main frontline of conflict is the country's education system. In 1981, the Pinochet regime dismantled free public education. Primary and secondary education is paid for by a vouchers system, which involves the government paying private sector providers to educate the young. Higher education is dominated by private professional and technical colleges, which cost up to \u00a3530 a month to attend. The state exists primarily as a regulator rather than a provider. As a result, working-class Chileans often receive at best a poor education, and students end up burdened with debts.But the demand for free education drives a popular wedge right into the country's economic structure. The students and workers say that the country's tremendous copper resources should be used to pay for reforms rather than to enrich investors. The struggles to change the constitution reflect a recognition that the political framework established by the dictatorship is itself part of the problem. Protesters look longingly abroad to Bolivia and Venezuela, where constitutional change has been part of the struggle against the old regimes.Regional protests have focused on the problem of \"centralism\", in which local needs are seen as being subordinated to the requirements of elites in the capital. In February, an uprising broke out in the Ays\u00e9n region of Chile, in a struggle over privatised hydroelectric projects. But the demands of the citizens' assemblies went far beyond the specific issues at stake: they assailed the constitution imposed during the dictatorship, demanded subsidies for the poor, employment opportunities, and the democratisation of regional decisions on the exploitation of natural resources.Workers' struggles have erupted with surprising militancy. Earlier this week, workers at the construction company Skanska used backhoe diggers against police during a strike over working hours. This is especially significant as union rates are extremely low in Chile, and legal industrial action is very difficult. Last week, the relatively conservative president of the Chilean Trade Union Congress, Arturo Mart\u00ednez, was defeated by the Communist party member B\u00e1rbara Figueroa. Mart\u00ednez's reign had been disfigured by corruption, and he was seen as a pawn of the Socialist party. A number of militant student federations have appeared to challenge the moderate, Socialist party-aligned Confederaci\u00f3n de Estudiantes de Chile (Confech), which initially led the protests. An increasingly visible leftist student movement is Consejos Estudiantiles, linked to the far left Movimiento de Izquierda Revolucionaria, formerly a guerrilla movement which sought to build armed resistance to Pinochet.The demands of the movement are extremely popular. But Chile's president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, is a billionaire who is estranged from the needs of most Chileans. Having been a supporter of the rightwing opposition to Pinochet, he has sought to continue the dictator's neoliberal policies. And, like Berlusconi, his wealth and free-market policies are tied to media interests: he purchased Chilevisi\u00f3n, now leased to the US media giant TBS, prior to assuming office. His approval ratings have plummeted throughout this season of unrest.In many ways, the pattern of unrest in Chile is repeating that in Quebec, and Asturias. In Quebec, an ongoing, militant student revolt centred on opposition to increasing tuition fees broadened into a call for a \"social strike\" bringing workers' demands to the fore. The student leaders asserted that the issue was one of class. Unions have provided logistical and legal support for the students, and the protests have spread through working-class neighbourhoods throughout Quebec. The unrest has already matured into a restless, broad-based social movement. Likewise, the Asturian miners' revolt escalated from a dispute over jobs into a wider conflict with the government, drawing in supporters across the country with a march on Madrid that attracted tens of thousands of supporters. A protest camp inspired by the Indignados movement was created by supporters in the regional capital, Oviedo.The tendency in these cases is for struggles that would previously have remained local, or sectional, to ignite a wider social rebellion aimed at concentrations of class power. In the context of a global crisis, localised flashpoints can no longer be contained. Diverse constituencies, from students and workers to local community groups, are finding that their aspirations are contiguous, their struggles linked. They have sought ways to unify their demands into a wide, frontal assault that cannot be contained or co-opted. In Chile, this has produced an incredibly optimistic, energised and combative left that dares to challenge the country's social order in a fundamental way for the first time in decades. The country that Pinochet terrorised is no longer afraid.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Protest"], "title": "Chile, the country Pinochet terrorised, is no longer afraid | Richard Seymour"},{"date": "2012-09-19T04:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "There may be a cluster of wow-factor hotels in and around Torres del Paine national park, but they come with minimum stays and a hefty price tag. Explora Patagonia trips, for example, cost from around \u00a31,750pp for a four-night minimum stay (full-board with daily excursions), while a four-night stay at Tierra Patagonia on the edge of the park costs $2,450 per person. For more flexibility, try cheaper but still chic options in Puerto Natales, just over an hour's drive to the park entrance. Most hotels offer their own excursions at reasonable rates \u2013 in the park, or in more off-the-beaten-track areas \u2013 or will point you towards someone who does. You'll also experience real-life Patagonia in this quirky frontier town: settled by Scottish and German immigrants in 1911, it has a cosmopolitan vibe and a thriving foodie scene.This rustic, family-run B&B is set in two of the town's traditional clapboard houses. The 15 rooms \u2013 11 of them en suite \u2013 are homely, liberally sprinkled with weavings and hand-embroidered cushions. The common room is heated by a woodburning stove and stuffed with vintage furniture, with lots of places for a post-hike flop. There's a large blackboard on the wall where the in-house agency posts tour information. The ground-floor cafe sells delicious pastries and great coffee, and there's a small deli stocking organic and anti-allergy products. \u2022 +56 61 411945,\u00a0hostelamerindia.com. Doubles from US$25 B&BDon't be fooled by the office-block-style exterior. Step inside this Puerto Natales stalwart and you'll find the dark colours and heavy furniture have been replaced by a slate-and-stainless-steel lobby, a light-filled dining area with wooden beams and designer chairs, sleek sofas and white walls adorned with modern art. It was completely remodelled last year by Roberto Cancino, the interior designer of the Natalino (see below), and the 28 rooms follow the same minimalist lines, with neutral colours and lots of wood. Just one block from the main square, it's open all year round and will let you leave your luggage if you go off trekking. \u2022 +56 61 712180,\u00a0martingusinde.com. Doubles from $85 B&BKau means \"house\" in the local Tehuelche language, and a group of friends have turned one of the oldest clapboard houses in town into a chic, five-room B&B. The first-floor rooms all have views over Last Hope Sound \u2013 from the corner room's double-height windows you can see all the way to the Paine mountains. The small, bright rooms have cool design touches \u2013 wicker lampshades, handwoven throws, pebble coat hooks \u2013 and the wooden wall behind the bed has been recycled from the frames of greenhouses. The open-plan ground floor has plenty of seating, the Coffeemaker cafe and bar plus the services of Antares Travel, which offers kayaking, biking, horse riding and trekking adventures. \u2022 +56 61 415978,\u00a0kaulodge.com. Doubles from $45 B&BWhile the history of Bories House is inextricably linked to The Singular (see below) \u2013 it was once home to the factory's manager \u2013 its style is very different. Perched on the shore of Last Hope Sound with views across to the Serrano and Balmaceda glaciers, it's surrounded by 25 acres of grassland with grazing horses. The seven bedrooms mix antiques with contemporary comforts, including free Wi-Fi, and the restaurant serves classic Patagonian ingredients \u2013 fish, seafood, lamb \u2013 with a modern twist. Explore the surrounding countryside on horseback or by bike, or ask the hotel to help arrange trips further afield. \u2022 +56 61 412221,\u00a0borieshouse.com. Doubles from $95, three-bedroom cottage $200-$300 B&BWith its striking ergonomic design, centrally located Hotel IF stands out from its diminutive clapboard neighbours and is committed to sustainability \u2013 there's even recycled tea bag art in the dining area. Light streams through the glass wall of the atrium, providing natural heat and ventilation. A staircase dramatically zig-zags its way to the 15 small but perfectly formed rooms, where you'll find white walls and lots of native lenga wood. The two suites each have their own Jacuzzi and there's also a hot tub for sharing and stunning views from the third-floor terrace. The hotel specialises in four- and five-day fly-fishing itineraries but will also arrange day trips to the national parks, and mountain-biking tours. \u2022 +56 61 410312,\u00a0hotelifpatagonia.com. Doubles from $115 B&BThis hilltop hotel, a 10-minute walk from the centre, has panoramic views over Last Hope Sound and the mountains beyond. A newly built wing brings the room total to 28, and they all make the most of a small space, with wood-panelled walls and splashes of colour from handwoven woollen blankets. The large, open-plan lounge bar is kept cosy with an open fire and, if you don't want to go into town, the restaurant serves local dishes that you can pair with a good choice of South American wines. To ease any post-trek aches and pains, wend your way down the wooden walkway to the spa and the free outdoor hot tubs for spectacular sunset views. \u2022 +56 61 414168,\u00a0weskar.cl. Doubles from $115 B&BWhat Natalino lacks in waterfront views, it makes up for with a construction inspired by the Patagonian landscape. The white-and-glass facade \u2013 which turns icy-blue at night \u2013 resembles a glacier. Inside, a sparkling granite staircase cuts through three-storey-high concrete walls, as though it were a crack in the ice. The 21 minimalist rooms have white walls, slate floors, dark-wood furniture and flatscreen TVs, and the top-floor suite has a double-height loft space, perfect for families. There's also a heated indoor pool with views over town and beyond, a small fitness centre and lounge bar. \u2022 +56 61 414345,\u00a0hotelnatalino.com. Doubles from $144 B&BSet on the waterfront of Last Hope Sound, Indigo was designed to resemble a barn \u2013 externally at least. Most of its 29 rooms, lined with blonde wood and concrete tongue and groove, look out over the water and are reached via a stunning atrium with interlinking stairs and walkways. You can take in the view from the freestanding tub in the expansive suite, or head to the top-floor spa and one of the three free hot tubs for even better views. Built like the prow of a ship, the original triangular building houses the Mama Rosa restaurant and bar, where you can feast on organic steak washed down with a pisco sour made with calafate (a native berry) and watch the ever-changing sky through the enormous picture windows. \u2022 +56 61 413609, indigopatagonia.com. Doubles from $285 B&BOn the edge of town, this long, lean hotel was built to blend into its hilltop surroundings, with a living grass roof and exterior walls covered in grass bricks, just like those used by the region's first settlers. Its low-slung, ergonomic design means it maintains heat and the 22 rooms are plain but comfortable, made of rugged materials \u2013 concrete, slate and wood \u2013 softened with\u00a0throws and sheepskin rugs. They all look over Last Hope Sound, as do the two free alfresco hot tubs. If you need help with tours, the friendly staff can point you in the direction of operators in town. \u2022 +56 22 2123021,\u00a0altiplanico.cl. Doubles $270 B&BMore than just a hotel, The Singular is a piece of Patagonian history. European settlers introduced sheep to the region in the 1800s and this cavernous building, close to the village of Puerto Bories \u2013 4km from Puerto Natales \u2013 operated as a meatpacking and cold storage factory for 70 years. After a 10-year restoration, the new wing channels industrial chic with expanses of metal, glass, concrete and brick. Its 57 lofty rooms \u2013 along with the spa and indoor-outdoor swimming pool \u2013 have floor-to-ceiling views over snow-capped peaks and the icy waters of Last Hope Sound. The original double-height warehouse now houses a display of massive Victorian machinery, as well as the atmospheric bar and restaurant, where you can try local delicacies, from king crab to Magellan lamb and guanaco steak. There are over 20 top-notch excursions on offer, both in and out of the park, but this is also a great place for a luxurious splurge after a long trek. \u2022 +56 61 722030,\u00a0thesingular.com. Doubles from $350 B&B", "tags": ["Patagonia holidays", "Hotels", "Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Top 10s", "Bed and breakfasts", "Adventure travel"], "title": "Top 10 hotels in Puerto Natales, Patagonia, Chile"},{"date": "2012-08-30T16:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Up to 200,000 people marched through Santiago yesterday. Students and teachers protesting over education were supported by the Chilean Trade Union Congress, which called on members to join the march. It ended with police turning water cannon and teargas on the protesters. But the protests aren't going away. For over a year now, this revolt has been developing. Mass protests and general strikes have shaken the government, as when 600,000 workers walked out last August.The main frontline of conflict is the country's education system. In 1981, the Pinochet regime dismantled free public education. Primary and secondary education is paid for by a vouchers system, which involves the government paying private sector providers to educate the young. Higher education is dominated by private professional and technical colleges, which cost up to \u00a3530 a month to attend. The state exists primarily as a regulator rather than a provider. As a result, working-class Chileans often receive at best a poor education, and students end up burdened with debts.But the demand for free education drives a popular wedge right into the country's economic structure. The students and workers say that the country's tremendous copper resources should be used to pay for reforms rather than to enrich investors. The struggles to change the constitution reflect a recognition that the political framework established by the dictatorship is itself part of the problem. Protesters look longingly abroad to Bolivia and Venezuela, where constitutional change has been part of the struggle against the old regimes.Regional protests have focused on the problem of \"centralism\", in which local needs are seen as being subordinated to the requirements of elites in the capital. In February, an uprising broke out in the Ays\u00e9n region of Chile, in a struggle over privatised hydroelectric projects. But the demands of the citizens' assemblies went far beyond the specific issues at stake: they assailed the constitution imposed during the dictatorship, demanded subsidies for the poor, employment opportunities, and the democratisation of regional decisions on the exploitation of natural resources.Workers' struggles have erupted with surprising militancy. Earlier this week, workers at the construction company Skanska used backhoe diggers against police during a strike over working hours. This is especially significant as union rates are extremely low in Chile, and legal industrial action is very difficult. Last week, the relatively conservative president of the Chilean Trade Union Congress, Arturo Mart\u00ednez, was defeated by the Communist party member B\u00e1rbara Figueroa. Mart\u00ednez's reign had been disfigured by corruption, and he was seen as a pawn of the Socialist party. A number of militant student federations have appeared to challenge the moderate, Socialist party-aligned Confederaci\u00f3n de Estudiantes de Chile (Confech), which initially led the protests. An increasingly visible leftist student movement is Consejos Estudiantiles, linked to the far left Movimiento de Izquierda Revolucionaria, formerly a guerrilla movement which sought to build armed resistance to Pinochet.The demands of the movement are extremely popular. But Chile's president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, is a billionaire who is estranged from the needs of most Chileans. Having been a supporter of the rightwing opposition to Pinochet, he has sought to continue the dictator's neoliberal policies. And, like Berlusconi, his wealth and free-market policies are tied to media interests: he purchased Chilevisi\u00f3n, now leased to the US media giant TBS, prior to assuming office. His approval ratings have plummeted throughout this season of unrest.In many ways, the pattern of unrest in Chile is repeating that in Quebec, and Asturias. In Quebec, an ongoing, militant student revolt centred on opposition to increasing tuition fees broadened into a call for a \"social strike\" bringing workers' demands to the fore. The student leaders asserted that the issue was one of class. Unions have provided logistical and legal support for the students, and the protests have spread through working-class neighbourhoods throughout Quebec. The unrest has already matured into a restless, broad-based social movement. Likewise, the Asturian miners' revolt escalated from a dispute over jobs into a wider conflict with the government, drawing in supporters across the country with a march on Madrid that attracted tens of thousands of supporters. A protest camp inspired by the Indignados movement was created by supporters in the regional capital, Oviedo.The tendency in these cases is for struggles that would previously have remained local, or sectional, to ignite a wider social rebellion aimed at concentrations of class power. In the context of a global crisis, localised flashpoints can no longer be contained. Diverse constituencies, from students and workers to local community groups, are finding that their aspirations are contiguous, their struggles linked. They have sought ways to unify their demands into a wide, frontal assault that cannot be contained or co-opted. In Chile, this has produced an incredibly optimistic, energised and combative left that dares to challenge the country's social order in a fundamental way for the first time in decades. The country that Pinochet terrorised is no longer afraid.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Protest"], "title": "Chile, the country Pinochet terrorised, is no longer afraid | Richard Seymour"},{"date": "2012-08-15T12:44:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Science has been widely recognised as a path to social and economic development. Despite the universality of this assumption, the discussion around how to develop effective science policies, seems an issue mistakenly reserved only for 'big countries'.Chile is a small country debating just how much research and development (R&D) should matter. We're in a good position in terms of scientific research, ranking 21st in the world (1st in South America) in terms of citations per article (in countries with more than 20,000 documents in the period between 1996-2010). But despite these impressive figures, In 2012, investment in R&D was only 0.5% of the GDP. And while Chile may now be a member of the OECD, we have no Ministry for Science and our research spending pales in comparison to the OECD average.In response, the scientific community came together to protest in 2007 and 2010 and to raise awareness of the low investment in R&D, the lack of a national plan for R&D (the last one was promulgated in 1988), and the urgent need for a new governance on research.The advocacy group, M\u00e1s Ciencia para Chile (More Science for Chile), was formed at the end of 2010 and close to 20 science students, postdoctoral researchers and journalists now work on the issues outlined above, as well as the promotion of better public attitudes to science and science communication. Some of us knew each other before hand; others joined along the way.We started with an online petition, targeting both asking citizens and scientists. To date, we've had 2,600 signatures. In August 2011, we gathered politicians, scientists, journalists, graduate students, and relevant experts in the field, in the Chilean parliament. The conference was themed \"Towards a public institution for the development of science in Chile\" and its main aim was to talk with the Commission on Science and Technology in the House of Deputies.This first experience was, undoubtedly, an 'initiation ritual' and a success in its own right. Although the government has been reluctant to consider our proposals (though they have been well received by some members of the Chilean Parliament), the need for a \"More Science for Chile\" campaign has became clear and we continue to make our case in the media. More letters, blogs and articles debating these issues are now being published than even before. In April of this year we published a letter in the magazine Science and we continue to stimulate debate in round table discussions and seminars. The movement has strengthened.Still, looking back at what has been achieved to date, it is fair to say we could have done better in some aspects of our campaign. We have had limited success in actively engaging local media and an significant part of the scientific community is still reluctant to participate in this debate - though this might be due in part to cultural traits.Next year Chilean presidential campaigns begin and will be a good opportunity to evaluate the impact of our initiatives. The promotion of the scientific research has never been a theme in previous elections, but the engagement of the scientific and academic community, after our work began, can hopefully change this. But change takes time. Political will is needed but engaging politicians in debate is as difficult - in Chile as it in anywhere else in the world. Likewise, more scientists need to step up and participate.Nonetheless, initiatives such as More Science for Chile (or indeed Science is Vital in UK) can still transform the way in which scientists and the political world interact and exchange information and ideas. And with continuous budget cuts or inadequate science policies now commonplace the world over, science policy could well be a new and fertile ground for young scientists to explore.Pablo Astudillo Besnier is part of the More Science for Chile coordination team. He is an engineer in molecular biotechnology at the University of Chile, and a PhD student in biological sciences at the Catholic University of Chile. Editor's note: A rebuttal letter from the president of National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT) has also been published in Science.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up for free to become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Academics", "Research", "Policy", "Higher education", "Education", "Research funding", "Research", "Education policy", "Politics", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Science funding crisis", "Science policy", "Science", "Research and development"], "title": "Chile: making investment in science a national priority"},{"date": "2012-09-19T04:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "There may be a cluster of wow-factor hotels in and around Torres del Paine national park, but they come with minimum stays and a hefty price tag. Explora Patagonia trips, for example, cost from around \u00a31,750pp for a four-night minimum stay (full-board with daily excursions), while a four-night stay at Tierra Patagonia on the edge of the park costs $2,450 per person. For more flexibility, try cheaper but still chic options in Puerto Natales, just over an hour's drive to the park entrance. Most hotels offer their own excursions at reasonable rates \u2013 in the park, or in more off-the-beaten-track areas \u2013 or will point you towards someone who does. You'll also experience real-life Patagonia in this quirky frontier town: settled by Scottish and German immigrants in 1911, it has a cosmopolitan vibe and a thriving foodie scene.This rustic, family-run B&B is set in two of the town's traditional clapboard houses. The 15 rooms \u2013 11 of them en suite \u2013 are homely, liberally sprinkled with weavings and hand-embroidered cushions. The common room is heated by a woodburning stove and stuffed with vintage furniture, with lots of places for a post-hike flop. There's a large blackboard on the wall where the in-house agency posts tour information. The ground-floor cafe sells delicious pastries and great coffee, and there's a small deli stocking organic and anti-allergy products. \u2022 +56 61 411945,\u00a0hostelamerindia.com. Doubles from US$25 B&BDon't be fooled by the office-block-style exterior. Step inside this Puerto Natales stalwart and you'll find the dark colours and heavy furniture have been replaced by a slate-and-stainless-steel lobby, a light-filled dining area with wooden beams and designer chairs, sleek sofas and white walls adorned with modern art. It was completely remodelled last year by Roberto Cancino, the interior designer of the Natalino (see below), and the 28 rooms follow the same minimalist lines, with neutral colours and lots of wood. Just one block from the main square, it's open all year round and will let you leave your luggage if you go off trekking. \u2022 +56 61 712180,\u00a0martingusinde.com. Doubles from $85 B&BKau means \"house\" in the local Tehuelche language, and a group of friends have turned one of the oldest clapboard houses in town into a chic, five-room B&B. The first-floor rooms all have views over Last Hope Sound \u2013 from the corner room's double-height windows you can see all the way to the Paine mountains. The small, bright rooms have cool design touches \u2013 wicker lampshades, handwoven throws, pebble coat hooks \u2013 and the wooden wall behind the bed has been recycled from the frames of greenhouses. The open-plan ground floor has plenty of seating, the Coffeemaker cafe and bar plus the services of Antares Travel, which offers kayaking, biking, horse riding and trekking adventures. \u2022 +56 61 415978,\u00a0kaulodge.com. Doubles from $45 B&BWhile the history of Bories House is inextricably linked to The Singular (see below) \u2013 it was once home to the factory's manager \u2013 its style is very different. Perched on the shore of Last Hope Sound with views across to the Serrano and Balmaceda glaciers, it's surrounded by 25 acres of grassland with grazing horses. The seven bedrooms mix antiques with contemporary comforts, including free Wi-Fi, and the restaurant serves classic Patagonian ingredients \u2013 fish, seafood, lamb \u2013 with a modern twist. Explore the surrounding countryside on horseback or by bike, or ask the hotel to help arrange trips further afield. \u2022 +56 61 412221,\u00a0borieshouse.com. Doubles from $95, three-bedroom cottage $200-$300 B&BWith its striking ergonomic design, centrally located Hotel IF stands out from its diminutive clapboard neighbours and is committed to sustainability \u2013 there's even recycled tea bag art in the dining area. Light streams through the glass wall of the atrium, providing natural heat and ventilation. A staircase dramatically zig-zags its way to the 15 small but perfectly formed rooms, where you'll find white walls and lots of native lenga wood. The two suites each have their own Jacuzzi and there's also a hot tub for sharing and stunning views from the third-floor terrace. The hotel specialises in four- and five-day fly-fishing itineraries but will also arrange day trips to the national parks, and mountain-biking tours. \u2022 +56 61 410312,\u00a0hotelifpatagonia.com. Doubles from $115 B&BThis hilltop hotel, a 10-minute walk from the centre, has panoramic views over Last Hope Sound and the mountains beyond. A newly built wing brings the room total to 28, and they all make the most of a small space, with wood-panelled walls and splashes of colour from handwoven woollen blankets. The large, open-plan lounge bar is kept cosy with an open fire and, if you don't want to go into town, the restaurant serves local dishes that you can pair with a good choice of South American wines. To ease any post-trek aches and pains, wend your way down the wooden walkway to the spa and the free outdoor hot tubs for spectacular sunset views. \u2022 +56 61 414168,\u00a0weskar.cl. Doubles from $115 B&BWhat Natalino lacks in waterfront views, it makes up for with a construction inspired by the Patagonian landscape. The white-and-glass facade \u2013 which turns icy-blue at night \u2013 resembles a glacier. Inside, a sparkling granite staircase cuts through three-storey-high concrete walls, as though it were a crack in the ice. The 21 minimalist rooms have white walls, slate floors, dark-wood furniture and flatscreen TVs, and the top-floor suite has a double-height loft space, perfect for families. There's also a heated indoor pool with views over town and beyond, a small fitness centre and lounge bar. \u2022 +56 61 414345,\u00a0hotelnatalino.com. Doubles from $144 B&BSet on the waterfront of Last Hope Sound, Indigo was designed to resemble a barn \u2013 externally at least. Most of its 29 rooms, lined with blonde wood and concrete tongue and groove, look out over the water and are reached via a stunning atrium with interlinking stairs and walkways. You can take in the view from the freestanding tub in the expansive suite, or head to the top-floor spa and one of the three free hot tubs for even better views. Built like the prow of a ship, the original triangular building houses the Mama Rosa restaurant and bar, where you can feast on organic steak washed down with a pisco sour made with calafate (a native berry) and watch the ever-changing sky through the enormous picture windows. \u2022 +56 61 413609, indigopatagonia.com. Doubles from $285 B&BOn the edge of town, this long, lean hotel was built to blend into its hilltop surroundings, with a living grass roof and exterior walls covered in grass bricks, just like those used by the region's first settlers. Its low-slung, ergonomic design means it maintains heat and the 22 rooms are plain but comfortable, made of rugged materials \u2013 concrete, slate and wood \u2013 softened with\u00a0throws and sheepskin rugs. They all look over Last Hope Sound, as do the two free alfresco hot tubs. If you need help with tours, the friendly staff can point you in the direction of operators in town. \u2022 +56 22 2123021,\u00a0altiplanico.cl. Doubles $270 B&BMore than just a hotel, The Singular is a piece of Patagonian history. European settlers introduced sheep to the region in the 1800s and this cavernous building, close to the village of Puerto Bories \u2013 4km from Puerto Natales \u2013 operated as a meatpacking and cold storage factory for 70 years. After a 10-year restoration, the new wing channels industrial chic with expanses of metal, glass, concrete and brick. Its 57 lofty rooms \u2013 along with the spa and indoor-outdoor swimming pool \u2013 have floor-to-ceiling views over snow-capped peaks and the icy waters of Last Hope Sound. The original double-height warehouse now houses a display of massive Victorian machinery, as well as the atmospheric bar and restaurant, where you can try local delicacies, from king crab to Magellan lamb and guanaco steak. There are over 20 top-notch excursions on offer, both in and out of the park, but this is also a great place for a luxurious splurge after a long trek. \u2022 +56 61 722030,\u00a0thesingular.com. Doubles from $350 B&B", "tags": ["Patagonia holidays", "Hotels", "Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Top 10s", "Bed and breakfasts", "Adventure travel"], "title": "Top 10 hotels in Puerto Natales, Patagonia, Chile"},{"date": "2012-08-30T16:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Up to 200,000 people marched through Santiago yesterday. Students and teachers protesting over education were supported by the Chilean Trade Union Congress, which called on members to join the march. It ended with police turning water cannon and teargas on the protesters. But the protests aren't going away. For over a year now, this revolt has been developing. Mass protests and general strikes have shaken the government, as when 600,000 workers walked out last August.The main frontline of conflict is the country's education system. In 1981, the Pinochet regime dismantled free public education. Primary and secondary education is paid for by a vouchers system, which involves the government paying private sector providers to educate the young. Higher education is dominated by private professional and technical colleges, which cost up to \u00a3530 a month to attend. The state exists primarily as a regulator rather than a provider. As a result, working-class Chileans often receive at best a poor education, and students end up burdened with debts.But the demand for free education drives a popular wedge right into the country's economic structure. The students and workers say that the country's tremendous copper resources should be used to pay for reforms rather than to enrich investors. The struggles to change the constitution reflect a recognition that the political framework established by the dictatorship is itself part of the problem. Protesters look longingly abroad to Bolivia and Venezuela, where constitutional change has been part of the struggle against the old regimes.Regional protests have focused on the problem of \"centralism\", in which local needs are seen as being subordinated to the requirements of elites in the capital. In February, an uprising broke out in the Ays\u00e9n region of Chile, in a struggle over privatised hydroelectric projects. But the demands of the citizens' assemblies went far beyond the specific issues at stake: they assailed the constitution imposed during the dictatorship, demanded subsidies for the poor, employment opportunities, and the democratisation of regional decisions on the exploitation of natural resources.Workers' struggles have erupted with surprising militancy. Earlier this week, workers at the construction company Skanska used backhoe diggers against police during a strike over working hours. This is especially significant as union rates are extremely low in Chile, and legal industrial action is very difficult. Last week, the relatively conservative president of the Chilean Trade Union Congress, Arturo Mart\u00ednez, was defeated by the Communist party member B\u00e1rbara Figueroa. Mart\u00ednez's reign had been disfigured by corruption, and he was seen as a pawn of the Socialist party. A number of militant student federations have appeared to challenge the moderate, Socialist party-aligned Confederaci\u00f3n de Estudiantes de Chile (Confech), which initially led the protests. An increasingly visible leftist student movement is Consejos Estudiantiles, linked to the far left Movimiento de Izquierda Revolucionaria, formerly a guerrilla movement which sought to build armed resistance to Pinochet.The demands of the movement are extremely popular. But Chile's president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, is a billionaire who is estranged from the needs of most Chileans. Having been a supporter of the rightwing opposition to Pinochet, he has sought to continue the dictator's neoliberal policies. And, like Berlusconi, his wealth and free-market policies are tied to media interests: he purchased Chilevisi\u00f3n, now leased to the US media giant TBS, prior to assuming office. His approval ratings have plummeted throughout this season of unrest.In many ways, the pattern of unrest in Chile is repeating that in Quebec, and Asturias. In Quebec, an ongoing, militant student revolt centred on opposition to increasing tuition fees broadened into a call for a \"social strike\" bringing workers' demands to the fore. The student leaders asserted that the issue was one of class. Unions have provided logistical and legal support for the students, and the protests have spread through working-class neighbourhoods throughout Quebec. The unrest has already matured into a restless, broad-based social movement. Likewise, the Asturian miners' revolt escalated from a dispute over jobs into a wider conflict with the government, drawing in supporters across the country with a march on Madrid that attracted tens of thousands of supporters. A protest camp inspired by the Indignados movement was created by supporters in the regional capital, Oviedo.The tendency in these cases is for struggles that would previously have remained local, or sectional, to ignite a wider social rebellion aimed at concentrations of class power. In the context of a global crisis, localised flashpoints can no longer be contained. Diverse constituencies, from students and workers to local community groups, are finding that their aspirations are contiguous, their struggles linked. They have sought ways to unify their demands into a wide, frontal assault that cannot be contained or co-opted. In Chile, this has produced an incredibly optimistic, energised and combative left that dares to challenge the country's social order in a fundamental way for the first time in decades. The country that Pinochet terrorised is no longer afraid.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Protest"], "title": "Chile, the country Pinochet terrorised, is no longer afraid | Richard Seymour"},{"date": "2012-08-15T12:44:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Science has been widely recognised as a path to social and economic development. Despite the universality of this assumption, the discussion around how to develop effective science policies, seems an issue mistakenly reserved only for 'big countries'.Chile is a small country debating just how much research and development (R&D) should matter. We're in a good position in terms of scientific research, ranking 21st in the world (1st in South America) in terms of citations per article (in countries with more than 20,000 documents in the period between 1996-2010). But despite these impressive figures, In 2012, investment in R&D was only 0.5% of the GDP. And while Chile may now be a member of the OECD, we have no Ministry for Science and our research spending pales in comparison to the OECD average.In response, the scientific community came together to protest in 2007 and 2010 and to raise awareness of the low investment in R&D, the lack of a national plan for R&D (the last one was promulgated in 1988), and the urgent need for a new governance on research.The advocacy group, M\u00e1s Ciencia para Chile (More Science for Chile), was formed at the end of 2010 and close to 20 science students, postdoctoral researchers and journalists now work on the issues outlined above, as well as the promotion of better public attitudes to science and science communication. Some of us knew each other before hand; others joined along the way.We started with an online petition, targeting both asking citizens and scientists. To date, we've had 2,600 signatures. In August 2011, we gathered politicians, scientists, journalists, graduate students, and relevant experts in the field, in the Chilean parliament. The conference was themed \"Towards a public institution for the development of science in Chile\" and its main aim was to talk with the Commission on Science and Technology in the House of Deputies.This first experience was, undoubtedly, an 'initiation ritual' and a success in its own right. Although the government has been reluctant to consider our proposals (though they have been well received by some members of the Chilean Parliament), the need for a \"More Science for Chile\" campaign has became clear and we continue to make our case in the media. More letters, blogs and articles debating these issues are now being published than even before. In April of this year we published a letter in the magazine Science and we continue to stimulate debate in round table discussions and seminars. The movement has strengthened.Still, looking back at what has been achieved to date, it is fair to say we could have done better in some aspects of our campaign. We have had limited success in actively engaging local media and an significant part of the scientific community is still reluctant to participate in this debate - though this might be due in part to cultural traits.Next year Chilean presidential campaigns begin and will be a good opportunity to evaluate the impact of our initiatives. The promotion of the scientific research has never been a theme in previous elections, but the engagement of the scientific and academic community, after our work began, can hopefully change this. But change takes time. Political will is needed but engaging politicians in debate is as difficult - in Chile as it in anywhere else in the world. Likewise, more scientists need to step up and participate.Nonetheless, initiatives such as More Science for Chile (or indeed Science is Vital in UK) can still transform the way in which scientists and the political world interact and exchange information and ideas. And with continuous budget cuts or inadequate science policies now commonplace the world over, science policy could well be a new and fertile ground for young scientists to explore.Pablo Astudillo Besnier is part of the More Science for Chile coordination team. He is an engineer in molecular biotechnology at the University of Chile, and a PhD student in biological sciences at the Catholic University of Chile. Editor's note: A rebuttal letter from the president of National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT) has also been published in Science.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up for free to become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Academics", "Research", "Policy", "Higher education", "Education", "Research funding", "Research", "Education policy", "Politics", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Science funding crisis", "Science policy", "Science", "Research and development"], "title": "Chile: making investment in science a national priority"},{"date": "2012-09-21T21:45:11Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Book all your flights at the same time for the best prices. Some large airlines have agreements with small local carriers, or, like Lan, operate both international and domestic flights, which means they can offer either discounted multi-destination airpasses or add internal flights for a small additional cost. For example, Journey Latin America (journeylatinamerica.co.uk) offers a return fare to Santiago for \u00a3975, or one with added stops in both Puerto Montt and Punto Arenas for \u00a31,048. If you do buy separately, good prices can often be found on lesser-known airlines Sky (skyairline.cl) and Pal (palair.cl).Long-distance coaches in South America are in a league of their own.When taking a sleeper, forget about first and second class, and learn that all categories based around the word for bed: cama, semi-cama, and cama VIP/executivo refer to how much your seat reclines, with the top-end ones not far off an airline business-class seat. You'll often be served a hot meal and maybe even a glass of wine, but ask exactly what is included when you book and take your own snacks too, as quality can be hit and miss. Travelling by bus is the best way to appreciate the sheer size of various countries in South America, and can save you the cost of a night's accommodation if it's an overnighter.While foreigners rush to the nearest hotel, Argentinians and Chileans often holiday in caba\u00f1as, self-catering cabins that are great for families and small groups. Just type your destination into a search engine plus the word caba\u00f1a for plenty of affordable, no-frills options. Sleeping under canvas in national parks will also cut costs.Shafik Meghji, co-author of the new Rough Guide to Chile, says: \"If you want to escape the crowds and reach the most spectacular areas, you generally have to camp. Some sites are free and, although very basic, usually have wonderfully isolated locations. Others charge a fee and offer equipment for hire, bathrooms, cooking facilities and even cafes.\"Some parks also have refugios (mountain huts with bunk beds, hot showers and gas stoves), but be sure to book in advance during high season. For cities, try peer-to-peer accommodation networks, such as AirBnB.com, Wimdu.co.uk and Tripping.com, which now have much better coverage in South America.Organised wine tours are often expensive. Cut costs by arranging your own visits, using public transport. Several vineyards around Santiago, including Vina Undurraga (undurraga.cl), Cousi\u00f1o Macul (cousinomacul.com) and Concha y Toro (conchaytoro.com) can be visited by bus or metro. You'll usually be expected to book a time slot in advance. La Rural (bodegalarural.com.ar), about 12km from Mendoza, also has a wine museum.Chile does a fine line in set lunches, so make this the main meal of your day. Look for chalkboards outside restaurants. The key words are men\u00fa ejecutivo, sometimes shortened to simply men\u00fa, usually comprising starter, main course, dessert and drink. Similar deals exist in some Argentina restaurants too, although they are not so common.A few years ago, taxis were so cheap in Buenos Aires that some foreigners never even set foot on a bus or subte (underground train). Now they are learning to appreciate public transport as one of the best bargains in the city, with fares from 15p to 30p. The city's bus system is very comprehensive, but getting to grips with it \u2013 the official guide is Guia T, a book packed with grids and cross references \u2013 can seem harder than cracking the Da Vinci Code.But help is at hand: British expat Jonathan Evans will teach you all you need to know, while offering an introductory tour to the city sights (buenosaireslocaltours.com). The tour is free (leave a tip) and runs entirely on public transport, including a stint on an underground line with original wooden carriages dating from 1913.Buenos Aires pioneered the in-house restaurant scene and now it's taking fashion behind closed doors, too. Clothing has been one of the areas hardest hit by Argentina's soaring inflation, so instead of paying for rental premises, many designers open up their studios or workshops, offering well-priced limited editions that make unusual souvenirs.Try Vendaval (vendavalbuenosaires.com.ar), Pippy Miller (facebook.com/PippyMiller), Maison Abbey (facebook.com/maison.abbey), Jungle Vi.ai.pi (jungleviaipi.blogspot.com.ar) and Blit Bags (bolu.us). Pop-up fashion ferias (markets) are also popular in Santiago. Most are advertised via Facebook or Twitter. For a short cut, arrange a tour with Santiago stylist Ameriga Giannone (agstyling.com). In Buenos Aires, try Shop Hop BA (shop-buenosaires.com) or Creme de la Creme (cremedelacreme.com.ar).It's not wise to carry large amounts of cash, but a handful of dollars could lead to discounts on, well, almost anything in Argentina. The government has recently introduced very strict laws that make it incredibly hard for residents to change money, so people are clamouring for international currency, namely dollars. Keep a few in your hotel safe for negotiating deals.Looking to extend your trip and learn the lingo while keeping accommodation costs low? Hostels often offer travellers medium-term accommodation and other benefits (sometimes meals and Spanish lessons) in exchange for a few hours' work. You can arrange this on the hoof or by contacting establishments in advance. Or, for a guaranteed placement, try Real Hostel Work (realhostelwork.com), a new site that has links with hostels across South America.", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Flights", "Hotels", "Travel"], "title": "An eye on the pesos: budget holidays in Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2012-09-19T04:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "There may be a cluster of wow-factor hotels in and around Torres del Paine national park, but they come with minimum stays and a hefty price tag. Explora Patagonia trips, for example, cost from around \u00a31,750pp for a four-night minimum stay (full-board with daily excursions), while a four-night stay at Tierra Patagonia on the edge of the park costs $2,450 per person. For more flexibility, try cheaper but still chic options in Puerto Natales, just over an hour's drive to the park entrance. Most hotels offer their own excursions at reasonable rates \u2013 in the park, or in more off-the-beaten-track areas \u2013 or will point you towards someone who does. You'll also experience real-life Patagonia in this quirky frontier town: settled by Scottish and German immigrants in 1911, it has a cosmopolitan vibe and a thriving foodie scene.This rustic, family-run B&B is set in two of the town's traditional clapboard houses. The 15 rooms \u2013 11 of them en suite \u2013 are homely, liberally sprinkled with weavings and hand-embroidered cushions. The common room is heated by a woodburning stove and stuffed with vintage furniture, with lots of places for a post-hike flop. There's a large blackboard on the wall where the in-house agency posts tour information. The ground-floor cafe sells delicious pastries and great coffee, and there's a small deli stocking organic and anti-allergy products. \u2022 +56 61 411945,\u00a0hostelamerindia.com. Doubles from US$25 B&BDon't be fooled by the office-block-style exterior. Step inside this Puerto Natales stalwart and you'll find the dark colours and heavy furniture have been replaced by a slate-and-stainless-steel lobby, a light-filled dining area with wooden beams and designer chairs, sleek sofas and white walls adorned with modern art. It was completely remodelled last year by Roberto Cancino, the interior designer of the Natalino (see below), and the 28 rooms follow the same minimalist lines, with neutral colours and lots of wood. Just one block from the main square, it's open all year round and will let you leave your luggage if you go off trekking. \u2022 +56 61 712180,\u00a0martingusinde.com. Doubles from $85 B&BKau means \"house\" in the local Tehuelche language, and a group of friends have turned one of the oldest clapboard houses in town into a chic, five-room B&B. The first-floor rooms all have views over Last Hope Sound \u2013 from the corner room's double-height windows you can see all the way to the Paine mountains. The small, bright rooms have cool design touches \u2013 wicker lampshades, handwoven throws, pebble coat hooks \u2013 and the wooden wall behind the bed has been recycled from the frames of greenhouses. The open-plan ground floor has plenty of seating, the Coffeemaker cafe and bar plus the services of Antares Travel, which offers kayaking, biking, horse riding and trekking adventures. \u2022 +56 61 415978,\u00a0kaulodge.com. Doubles from $45 B&BWhile the history of Bories House is inextricably linked to The Singular (see below) \u2013 it was once home to the factory's manager \u2013 its style is very different. Perched on the shore of Last Hope Sound with views across to the Serrano and Balmaceda glaciers, it's surrounded by 25 acres of grassland with grazing horses. The seven bedrooms mix antiques with contemporary comforts, including free Wi-Fi, and the restaurant serves classic Patagonian ingredients \u2013 fish, seafood, lamb \u2013 with a modern twist. Explore the surrounding countryside on horseback or by bike, or ask the hotel to help arrange trips further afield. \u2022 +56 61 412221,\u00a0borieshouse.com. Doubles from $95, three-bedroom cottage $200-$300 B&BWith its striking ergonomic design, centrally located Hotel IF stands out from its diminutive clapboard neighbours and is committed to sustainability \u2013 there's even recycled tea bag art in the dining area. Light streams through the glass wall of the atrium, providing natural heat and ventilation. A staircase dramatically zig-zags its way to the 15 small but perfectly formed rooms, where you'll find white walls and lots of native lenga wood. The two suites each have their own Jacuzzi and there's also a hot tub for sharing and stunning views from the third-floor terrace. The hotel specialises in four- and five-day fly-fishing itineraries but will also arrange day trips to the national parks, and mountain-biking tours. \u2022 +56 61 410312,\u00a0hotelifpatagonia.com. Doubles from $115 B&BThis hilltop hotel, a 10-minute walk from the centre, has panoramic views over Last Hope Sound and the mountains beyond. A newly built wing brings the room total to 28, and they all make the most of a small space, with wood-panelled walls and splashes of colour from handwoven woollen blankets. The large, open-plan lounge bar is kept cosy with an open fire and, if you don't want to go into town, the restaurant serves local dishes that you can pair with a good choice of South American wines. To ease any post-trek aches and pains, wend your way down the wooden walkway to the spa and the free outdoor hot tubs for spectacular sunset views. \u2022 +56 61 414168,\u00a0weskar.cl. Doubles from $115 B&BWhat Natalino lacks in waterfront views, it makes up for with a construction inspired by the Patagonian landscape. The white-and-glass facade \u2013 which turns icy-blue at night \u2013 resembles a glacier. Inside, a sparkling granite staircase cuts through three-storey-high concrete walls, as though it were a crack in the ice. The 21 minimalist rooms have white walls, slate floors, dark-wood furniture and flatscreen TVs, and the top-floor suite has a double-height loft space, perfect for families. There's also a heated indoor pool with views over town and beyond, a small fitness centre and lounge bar. \u2022 +56 61 414345,\u00a0hotelnatalino.com. Doubles from $144 B&BSet on the waterfront of Last Hope Sound, Indigo was designed to resemble a barn \u2013 externally at least. Most of its 29 rooms, lined with blonde wood and concrete tongue and groove, look out over the water and are reached via a stunning atrium with interlinking stairs and walkways. You can take in the view from the freestanding tub in the expansive suite, or head to the top-floor spa and one of the three free hot tubs for even better views. Built like the prow of a ship, the original triangular building houses the Mama Rosa restaurant and bar, where you can feast on organic steak washed down with a pisco sour made with calafate (a native berry) and watch the ever-changing sky through the enormous picture windows. \u2022 +56 61 413609, indigopatagonia.com. Doubles from $285 B&BOn the edge of town, this long, lean hotel was built to blend into its hilltop surroundings, with a living grass roof and exterior walls covered in grass bricks, just like those used by the region's first settlers. Its low-slung, ergonomic design means it maintains heat and the 22 rooms are plain but comfortable, made of rugged materials \u2013 concrete, slate and wood \u2013 softened with\u00a0throws and sheepskin rugs. They all look over Last Hope Sound, as do the two free alfresco hot tubs. If you need help with tours, the friendly staff can point you in the direction of operators in town. \u2022 +56 22 2123021,\u00a0altiplanico.cl. Doubles $270 B&BMore than just a hotel, The Singular is a piece of Patagonian history. European settlers introduced sheep to the region in the 1800s and this cavernous building, close to the village of Puerto Bories \u2013 4km from Puerto Natales \u2013 operated as a meatpacking and cold storage factory for 70 years. After a 10-year restoration, the new wing channels industrial chic with expanses of metal, glass, concrete and brick. Its 57 lofty rooms \u2013 along with the spa and indoor-outdoor swimming pool \u2013 have floor-to-ceiling views over snow-capped peaks and the icy waters of Last Hope Sound. The original double-height warehouse now houses a display of massive Victorian machinery, as well as the atmospheric bar and restaurant, where you can try local delicacies, from king crab to Magellan lamb and guanaco steak. There are over 20 top-notch excursions on offer, both in and out of the park, but this is also a great place for a luxurious splurge after a long trek. \u2022 +56 61 722030,\u00a0thesingular.com. Doubles from $350 B&B", "tags": ["Patagonia holidays", "Hotels", "Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Top 10s", "Bed and breakfasts", "Adventure travel"], "title": "Top 10 hotels in Puerto Natales, Patagonia, Chile"},{"date": "2012-08-30T16:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Up to 200,000 people marched through Santiago yesterday. Students and teachers protesting over education were supported by the Chilean Trade Union Congress, which called on members to join the march. It ended with police turning water cannon and teargas on the protesters. But the protests aren't going away. For over a year now, this revolt has been developing. Mass protests and general strikes have shaken the government, as when 600,000 workers walked out last August.The main frontline of conflict is the country's education system. In 1981, the Pinochet regime dismantled free public education. Primary and secondary education is paid for by a vouchers system, which involves the government paying private sector providers to educate the young. Higher education is dominated by private professional and technical colleges, which cost up to \u00a3530 a month to attend. The state exists primarily as a regulator rather than a provider. As a result, working-class Chileans often receive at best a poor education, and students end up burdened with debts.But the demand for free education drives a popular wedge right into the country's economic structure. The students and workers say that the country's tremendous copper resources should be used to pay for reforms rather than to enrich investors. The struggles to change the constitution reflect a recognition that the political framework established by the dictatorship is itself part of the problem. Protesters look longingly abroad to Bolivia and Venezuela, where constitutional change has been part of the struggle against the old regimes.Regional protests have focused on the problem of \"centralism\", in which local needs are seen as being subordinated to the requirements of elites in the capital. In February, an uprising broke out in the Ays\u00e9n region of Chile, in a struggle over privatised hydroelectric projects. But the demands of the citizens' assemblies went far beyond the specific issues at stake: they assailed the constitution imposed during the dictatorship, demanded subsidies for the poor, employment opportunities, and the democratisation of regional decisions on the exploitation of natural resources.Workers' struggles have erupted with surprising militancy. Earlier this week, workers at the construction company Skanska used backhoe diggers against police during a strike over working hours. This is especially significant as union rates are extremely low in Chile, and legal industrial action is very difficult. Last week, the relatively conservative president of the Chilean Trade Union Congress, Arturo Mart\u00ednez, was defeated by the Communist party member B\u00e1rbara Figueroa. Mart\u00ednez's reign had been disfigured by corruption, and he was seen as a pawn of the Socialist party. A number of militant student federations have appeared to challenge the moderate, Socialist party-aligned Confederaci\u00f3n de Estudiantes de Chile (Confech), which initially led the protests. An increasingly visible leftist student movement is Consejos Estudiantiles, linked to the far left Movimiento de Izquierda Revolucionaria, formerly a guerrilla movement which sought to build armed resistance to Pinochet.The demands of the movement are extremely popular. But Chile's president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, is a billionaire who is estranged from the needs of most Chileans. Having been a supporter of the rightwing opposition to Pinochet, he has sought to continue the dictator's neoliberal policies. And, like Berlusconi, his wealth and free-market policies are tied to media interests: he purchased Chilevisi\u00f3n, now leased to the US media giant TBS, prior to assuming office. His approval ratings have plummeted throughout this season of unrest.In many ways, the pattern of unrest in Chile is repeating that in Quebec, and Asturias. In Quebec, an ongoing, militant student revolt centred on opposition to increasing tuition fees broadened into a call for a \"social strike\" bringing workers' demands to the fore. The student leaders asserted that the issue was one of class. Unions have provided logistical and legal support for the students, and the protests have spread through working-class neighbourhoods throughout Quebec. The unrest has already matured into a restless, broad-based social movement. Likewise, the Asturian miners' revolt escalated from a dispute over jobs into a wider conflict with the government, drawing in supporters across the country with a march on Madrid that attracted tens of thousands of supporters. A protest camp inspired by the Indignados movement was created by supporters in the regional capital, Oviedo.The tendency in these cases is for struggles that would previously have remained local, or sectional, to ignite a wider social rebellion aimed at concentrations of class power. In the context of a global crisis, localised flashpoints can no longer be contained. Diverse constituencies, from students and workers to local community groups, are finding that their aspirations are contiguous, their struggles linked. They have sought ways to unify their demands into a wide, frontal assault that cannot be contained or co-opted. In Chile, this has produced an incredibly optimistic, energised and combative left that dares to challenge the country's social order in a fundamental way for the first time in decades. The country that Pinochet terrorised is no longer afraid.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Protest"], "title": "Chile, the country Pinochet terrorised, is no longer afraid | Richard Seymour"},{"date": "2012-08-15T12:44:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Science has been widely recognised as a path to social and economic development. Despite the universality of this assumption, the discussion around how to develop effective science policies, seems an issue mistakenly reserved only for 'big countries'.Chile is a small country debating just how much research and development (R&D) should matter. We're in a good position in terms of scientific research, ranking 21st in the world (1st in South America) in terms of citations per article (in countries with more than 20,000 documents in the period between 1996-2010). But despite these impressive figures, In 2012, investment in R&D was only 0.5% of the GDP. And while Chile may now be a member of the OECD, we have no Ministry for Science and our research spending pales in comparison to the OECD average.In response, the scientific community came together to protest in 2007 and 2010 and to raise awareness of the low investment in R&D, the lack of a national plan for R&D (the last one was promulgated in 1988), and the urgent need for a new governance on research.The advocacy group, M\u00e1s Ciencia para Chile (More Science for Chile), was formed at the end of 2010 and close to 20 science students, postdoctoral researchers and journalists now work on the issues outlined above, as well as the promotion of better public attitudes to science and science communication. Some of us knew each other before hand; others joined along the way.We started with an online petition, targeting both asking citizens and scientists. To date, we've had 2,600 signatures. In August 2011, we gathered politicians, scientists, journalists, graduate students, and relevant experts in the field, in the Chilean parliament. The conference was themed \"Towards a public institution for the development of science in Chile\" and its main aim was to talk with the Commission on Science and Technology in the House of Deputies.This first experience was, undoubtedly, an 'initiation ritual' and a success in its own right. Although the government has been reluctant to consider our proposals (though they have been well received by some members of the Chilean Parliament), the need for a \"More Science for Chile\" campaign has became clear and we continue to make our case in the media. More letters, blogs and articles debating these issues are now being published than even before. In April of this year we published a letter in the magazine Science and we continue to stimulate debate in round table discussions and seminars. The movement has strengthened.Still, looking back at what has been achieved to date, it is fair to say we could have done better in some aspects of our campaign. We have had limited success in actively engaging local media and an significant part of the scientific community is still reluctant to participate in this debate - though this might be due in part to cultural traits.Next year Chilean presidential campaigns begin and will be a good opportunity to evaluate the impact of our initiatives. The promotion of the scientific research has never been a theme in previous elections, but the engagement of the scientific and academic community, after our work began, can hopefully change this. But change takes time. Political will is needed but engaging politicians in debate is as difficult - in Chile as it in anywhere else in the world. Likewise, more scientists need to step up and participate.Nonetheless, initiatives such as More Science for Chile (or indeed Science is Vital in UK) can still transform the way in which scientists and the political world interact and exchange information and ideas. And with continuous budget cuts or inadequate science policies now commonplace the world over, science policy could well be a new and fertile ground for young scientists to explore.Pablo Astudillo Besnier is part of the More Science for Chile coordination team. He is an engineer in molecular biotechnology at the University of Chile, and a PhD student in biological sciences at the Catholic University of Chile. Editor's note: A rebuttal letter from the president of National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT) has also been published in Science.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up for free to become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Academics", "Research", "Policy", "Higher education", "Education", "Research funding", "Research", "Education policy", "Politics", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Science funding crisis", "Science policy", "Science", "Research and development"], "title": "Chile: making investment in science a national priority"},{"date": "2012-09-21T21:45:11Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Book all your flights at the same time for the best prices. Some large airlines have agreements with small local carriers, or, like Lan, operate both international and domestic flights, which means they can offer either discounted multi-destination airpasses or add internal flights for a small additional cost. For example, Journey Latin America (journeylatinamerica.co.uk) offers a return fare to Santiago for \u00a3975, or one with added stops in both Puerto Montt and Punto Arenas for \u00a31,048. If you do buy separately, good prices can often be found on lesser-known airlines Sky (skyairline.cl) and Pal (palair.cl).Long-distance coaches in South America are in a league of their own.When taking a sleeper, forget about first and second class, and learn that all categories based around the word for bed: cama, semi-cama, and cama VIP/executivo refer to how much your seat reclines, with the top-end ones not far off an airline business-class seat. You'll often be served a hot meal and maybe even a glass of wine, but ask exactly what is included when you book and take your own snacks too, as quality can be hit and miss. Travelling by bus is the best way to appreciate the sheer size of various countries in South America, and can save you the cost of a night's accommodation if it's an overnighter.While foreigners rush to the nearest hotel, Argentinians and Chileans often holiday in caba\u00f1as, self-catering cabins that are great for families and small groups. Just type your destination into a search engine plus the word caba\u00f1a for plenty of affordable, no-frills options. Sleeping under canvas in national parks will also cut costs.Shafik Meghji, co-author of the new Rough Guide to Chile, says: \"If you want to escape the crowds and reach the most spectacular areas, you generally have to camp. Some sites are free and, although very basic, usually have wonderfully isolated locations. Others charge a fee and offer equipment for hire, bathrooms, cooking facilities and even cafes.\"Some parks also have refugios (mountain huts with bunk beds, hot showers and gas stoves), but be sure to book in advance during high season. For cities, try peer-to-peer accommodation networks, such as AirBnB.com, Wimdu.co.uk and Tripping.com, which now have much better coverage in South America.Organised wine tours are often expensive. Cut costs by arranging your own visits, using public transport. Several vineyards around Santiago, including Vina Undurraga (undurraga.cl), Cousi\u00f1o Macul (cousinomacul.com) and Concha y Toro (conchaytoro.com) can be visited by bus or metro. You'll usually be expected to book a time slot in advance. La Rural (bodegalarural.com.ar), about 12km from Mendoza, also has a wine museum.Chile does a fine line in set lunches, so make this the main meal of your day. Look for chalkboards outside restaurants. The key words are men\u00fa ejecutivo, sometimes shortened to simply men\u00fa, usually comprising starter, main course, dessert and drink. Similar deals exist in some Argentina restaurants too, although they are not so common.A few years ago, taxis were so cheap in Buenos Aires that some foreigners never even set foot on a bus or subte (underground train). Now they are learning to appreciate public transport as one of the best bargains in the city, with fares from 15p to 30p. The city's bus system is very comprehensive, but getting to grips with it \u2013 the official guide is Guia T, a book packed with grids and cross references \u2013 can seem harder than cracking the Da Vinci Code.But help is at hand: British expat Jonathan Evans will teach you all you need to know, while offering an introductory tour to the city sights (buenosaireslocaltours.com). The tour is free (leave a tip) and runs entirely on public transport, including a stint on an underground line with original wooden carriages dating from 1913.Buenos Aires pioneered the in-house restaurant scene and now it's taking fashion behind closed doors, too. Clothing has been one of the areas hardest hit by Argentina's soaring inflation, so instead of paying for rental premises, many designers open up their studios or workshops, offering well-priced limited editions that make unusual souvenirs.Try Vendaval (vendavalbuenosaires.com.ar), Pippy Miller (facebook.com/PippyMiller), Maison Abbey (facebook.com/maison.abbey), Jungle Vi.ai.pi (jungleviaipi.blogspot.com.ar) and Blit Bags (bolu.us). Pop-up fashion ferias (markets) are also popular in Santiago. Most are advertised via Facebook or Twitter. For a short cut, arrange a tour with Santiago stylist Ameriga Giannone (agstyling.com). In Buenos Aires, try Shop Hop BA (shop-buenosaires.com) or Creme de la Creme (cremedelacreme.com.ar).It's not wise to carry large amounts of cash, but a handful of dollars could lead to discounts on, well, almost anything in Argentina. The government has recently introduced very strict laws that make it incredibly hard for residents to change money, so people are clamouring for international currency, namely dollars. Keep a few in your hotel safe for negotiating deals.Looking to extend your trip and learn the lingo while keeping accommodation costs low? Hostels often offer travellers medium-term accommodation and other benefits (sometimes meals and Spanish lessons) in exchange for a few hours' work. You can arrange this on the hoof or by contacting establishments in advance. Or, for a guaranteed placement, try Real Hostel Work (realhostelwork.com), a new site that has links with hostels across South America.", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Flights", "Hotels", "Travel"], "title": "An eye on the pesos: budget holidays in Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2012-09-17T07:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile's Chilo\u00e9 archipelago, with green hills, its own distinct culture and simple way of life, is set to attract more tourists, with a luxurious new 12-room lodge, the Refugia (refugia.cl, rooms from $530!), on Castro island. But backpackers may prefer one of several hostels, such as Hostal Entretenido, also on Castro (entretenido.hostel.com, \u00a312).Thomson has launched a free iPad and iPhone app to do the job of a resort rep. It says it's the first major tour firm to use the technology, which lets its holidaymakers scroll through activities available in their holiday destination, find useful information and access virtual discount vouchers to be used at local bars and restaurants. Download the MyThomson app at Apple's App Store.Smoasting\"Social media boasting\" is changing the way young people see the world, say independent travel experts. They want to get more pictures taken of more sights to show off to their online friends, so they are likely to whizz around as many highlights as possible, and choose where they go and what they do with that all-important digital image in mind.The sun's still shining in ...\u2022 Bodrum, Turkey 33C\u2022 Madrid, Spain 31C\u2022 Athens, Greece 29C\u2022 Lisbon, Portugal 28C\u2022 Marseille, France 26CCooler days and shorter evenings mean autumn is on its way, but also on their way are vast numbers of migrating birds fleeing the northern winter. And one of the best places to spot them is the Essex marshes, where work has begun on the biggest manmade wetland in Europe. On the Essex coast, north-east of Southend-on-Sea, the Wallasea Wild Coast project, headed by the RSPB, is billed as Europe's largest civil engineering project, combined with Europe's largest marine habitat conservation project. Over five years, 6m tonnes of soil from the Crossrail tunnel excavations in London will be shipped to Wallasea Island, an uninhabited stretch of marshland.The soil will raise the low-lying island, creating a natural defence against rising sea levels and a 1,500-acre wetland of mudflats, saltmarsh, shallow lagoons and pasture.Conservationists say Wallasea Island's soil is so rich in bird-friendly nutrients, that a cubic metre of mud contains as much energy as a Mars bar.\"It's going to be superb for wildlife,\" says project manager Chris Tyas. \"Here, and on the adjacent Allfleet's Marsh, we expect to see around 50,000 over-wintering birds.\"The project will not be finished until 2019, but visitors are welcome to view progress as each section comes to life. Eventually there will be 15km of new paths, with hides, screens and mounds offering the chance to observe birds including lapwings, grey plovers, curlews, redshanks, teal and wigeon.Get there by tidal causeway or ferry from Burnham-on-Crouch. Facilities are basic, but there are walks on pushchair-friendly paths.\u2022 rspb.org.uk/wallaseaJennifer CoxHotelThe \"lively, convivial atmosphere\" of a late Georgian coffeehouse is to be recreated on Thursday at a foodie event at Simpson's Tavern chophouse in Cornhill, London, pictured, which was built in 1757. Diners in candlelit wooden booths will have a three-course meal and entertainment by actors and historians.\u2022 missbtakesawalk.eventbrite.com, \u00a367ppFestivalTickets have gone on sale for the inaugural New Yorker Festival, taking place in New York on 5-7 October. The iconic magazine's line-up includes Martin Amis and Zadie Smith discussing Money and Margaret Atwood and George Saunders on Utopia/Dystopia. There is a \"Conversation with Music\" session with Norah Jones, plus talks by Patti Smith, Christian Louboutin, Salman Rushdie, Ben Stiller, Sarah Silverman and Lisa Kudrow. \u2022 newyorker.com/festival/tickets Food and musicLimewood, the hip country house hotel in the New Forest, is hosting a series of free gigs for diners and guests, including one on Sunday 23 September by Police Dog Hogan, whose line-up includes Guardian Saturday magazine columnist Tim Dowling. The dinner menu includes fish and meat from the hotel's own smokehouse.\u2022 023-8028 7177, limewoodhotel.co.uk ", "tags": ["Travel", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Travel news roundup: going green in Chile and arty in New York"},{"date": "2012-09-19T04:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "There may be a cluster of wow-factor hotels in and around Torres del Paine national park, but they come with minimum stays and a hefty price tag. Explora Patagonia trips, for example, cost from around \u00a31,750pp for a four-night minimum stay (full-board with daily excursions), while a four-night stay at Tierra Patagonia on the edge of the park costs $2,450 per person. For more flexibility, try cheaper but still chic options in Puerto Natales, just over an hour's drive to the park entrance. Most hotels offer their own excursions at reasonable rates \u2013 in the park, or in more off-the-beaten-track areas \u2013 or will point you towards someone who does. You'll also experience real-life Patagonia in this quirky frontier town: settled by Scottish and German immigrants in 1911, it has a cosmopolitan vibe and a thriving foodie scene.This rustic, family-run B&B is set in two of the town's traditional clapboard houses. The 15 rooms \u2013 11 of them en suite \u2013 are homely, liberally sprinkled with weavings and hand-embroidered cushions. The common room is heated by a woodburning stove and stuffed with vintage furniture, with lots of places for a post-hike flop. There's a large blackboard on the wall where the in-house agency posts tour information. The ground-floor cafe sells delicious pastries and great coffee, and there's a small deli stocking organic and anti-allergy products. \u2022 +56 61 411945,\u00a0hostelamerindia.com. Doubles from US$25 B&BDon't be fooled by the office-block-style exterior. Step inside this Puerto Natales stalwart and you'll find the dark colours and heavy furniture have been replaced by a slate-and-stainless-steel lobby, a light-filled dining area with wooden beams and designer chairs, sleek sofas and white walls adorned with modern art. It was completely remodelled last year by Roberto Cancino, the interior designer of the Natalino (see below), and the 28 rooms follow the same minimalist lines, with neutral colours and lots of wood. Just one block from the main square, it's open all year round and will let you leave your luggage if you go off trekking. \u2022 +56 61 712180,\u00a0martingusinde.com. Doubles from $85 B&BKau means \"house\" in the local Tehuelche language, and a group of friends have turned one of the oldest clapboard houses in town into a chic, five-room B&B. The first-floor rooms all have views over Last Hope Sound \u2013 from the corner room's double-height windows you can see all the way to the Paine mountains. The small, bright rooms have cool design touches \u2013 wicker lampshades, handwoven throws, pebble coat hooks \u2013 and the wooden wall behind the bed has been recycled from the frames of greenhouses. The open-plan ground floor has plenty of seating, the Coffeemaker cafe and bar plus the services of Antares Travel, which offers kayaking, biking, horse riding and trekking adventures. \u2022 +56 61 415978,\u00a0kaulodge.com. Doubles from $45 B&BWhile the history of Bories House is inextricably linked to The Singular (see below) \u2013 it was once home to the factory's manager \u2013 its style is very different. Perched on the shore of Last Hope Sound with views across to the Serrano and Balmaceda glaciers, it's surrounded by 25 acres of grassland with grazing horses. The seven bedrooms mix antiques with contemporary comforts, including free Wi-Fi, and the restaurant serves classic Patagonian ingredients \u2013 fish, seafood, lamb \u2013 with a modern twist. Explore the surrounding countryside on horseback or by bike, or ask the hotel to help arrange trips further afield. \u2022 +56 61 412221,\u00a0borieshouse.com. Doubles from $95, three-bedroom cottage $200-$300 B&BWith its striking ergonomic design, centrally located Hotel IF stands out from its diminutive clapboard neighbours and is committed to sustainability \u2013 there's even recycled tea bag art in the dining area. Light streams through the glass wall of the atrium, providing natural heat and ventilation. A staircase dramatically zig-zags its way to the 15 small but perfectly formed rooms, where you'll find white walls and lots of native lenga wood. The two suites each have their own Jacuzzi and there's also a hot tub for sharing and stunning views from the third-floor terrace. The hotel specialises in four- and five-day fly-fishing itineraries but will also arrange day trips to the national parks, and mountain-biking tours. \u2022 +56 61 410312,\u00a0hotelifpatagonia.com. Doubles from $115 B&BThis hilltop hotel, a 10-minute walk from the centre, has panoramic views over Last Hope Sound and the mountains beyond. A newly built wing brings the room total to 28, and they all make the most of a small space, with wood-panelled walls and splashes of colour from handwoven woollen blankets. The large, open-plan lounge bar is kept cosy with an open fire and, if you don't want to go into town, the restaurant serves local dishes that you can pair with a good choice of South American wines. To ease any post-trek aches and pains, wend your way down the wooden walkway to the spa and the free outdoor hot tubs for spectacular sunset views. \u2022 +56 61 414168,\u00a0weskar.cl. Doubles from $115 B&BWhat Natalino lacks in waterfront views, it makes up for with a construction inspired by the Patagonian landscape. The white-and-glass facade \u2013 which turns icy-blue at night \u2013 resembles a glacier. Inside, a sparkling granite staircase cuts through three-storey-high concrete walls, as though it were a crack in the ice. The 21 minimalist rooms have white walls, slate floors, dark-wood furniture and flatscreen TVs, and the top-floor suite has a double-height loft space, perfect for families. There's also a heated indoor pool with views over town and beyond, a small fitness centre and lounge bar. \u2022 +56 61 414345,\u00a0hotelnatalino.com. Doubles from $144 B&BSet on the waterfront of Last Hope Sound, Indigo was designed to resemble a barn \u2013 externally at least. Most of its 29 rooms, lined with blonde wood and concrete tongue and groove, look out over the water and are reached via a stunning atrium with interlinking stairs and walkways. You can take in the view from the freestanding tub in the expansive suite, or head to the top-floor spa and one of the three free hot tubs for even better views. Built like the prow of a ship, the original triangular building houses the Mama Rosa restaurant and bar, where you can feast on organic steak washed down with a pisco sour made with calafate (a native berry) and watch the ever-changing sky through the enormous picture windows. \u2022 +56 61 413609, indigopatagonia.com. Doubles from $285 B&BOn the edge of town, this long, lean hotel was built to blend into its hilltop surroundings, with a living grass roof and exterior walls covered in grass bricks, just like those used by the region's first settlers. Its low-slung, ergonomic design means it maintains heat and the 22 rooms are plain but comfortable, made of rugged materials \u2013 concrete, slate and wood \u2013 softened with\u00a0throws and sheepskin rugs. They all look over Last Hope Sound, as do the two free alfresco hot tubs. If you need help with tours, the friendly staff can point you in the direction of operators in town. \u2022 +56 22 2123021,\u00a0altiplanico.cl. Doubles $270 B&BMore than just a hotel, The Singular is a piece of Patagonian history. European settlers introduced sheep to the region in the 1800s and this cavernous building, close to the village of Puerto Bories \u2013 4km from Puerto Natales \u2013 operated as a meatpacking and cold storage factory for 70 years. After a 10-year restoration, the new wing channels industrial chic with expanses of metal, glass, concrete and brick. Its 57 lofty rooms \u2013 along with the spa and indoor-outdoor swimming pool \u2013 have floor-to-ceiling views over snow-capped peaks and the icy waters of Last Hope Sound. The original double-height warehouse now houses a display of massive Victorian machinery, as well as the atmospheric bar and restaurant, where you can try local delicacies, from king crab to Magellan lamb and guanaco steak. There are over 20 top-notch excursions on offer, both in and out of the park, but this is also a great place for a luxurious splurge after a long trek. \u2022 +56 61 722030,\u00a0thesingular.com. Doubles from $350 B&B", "tags": ["Patagonia holidays", "Hotels", "Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Top 10s", "Bed and breakfasts", "Adventure travel"], "title": "Top 10 hotels in Puerto Natales, Patagonia, Chile"},{"date": "2012-08-30T16:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Up to 200,000 people marched through Santiago yesterday. Students and teachers protesting over education were supported by the Chilean Trade Union Congress, which called on members to join the march. It ended with police turning water cannon and teargas on the protesters. But the protests aren't going away. For over a year now, this revolt has been developing. Mass protests and general strikes have shaken the government, as when 600,000 workers walked out last August.The main frontline of conflict is the country's education system. In 1981, the Pinochet regime dismantled free public education. Primary and secondary education is paid for by a vouchers system, which involves the government paying private sector providers to educate the young. Higher education is dominated by private professional and technical colleges, which cost up to \u00a3530 a month to attend. The state exists primarily as a regulator rather than a provider. As a result, working-class Chileans often receive at best a poor education, and students end up burdened with debts.But the demand for free education drives a popular wedge right into the country's economic structure. The students and workers say that the country's tremendous copper resources should be used to pay for reforms rather than to enrich investors. The struggles to change the constitution reflect a recognition that the political framework established by the dictatorship is itself part of the problem. Protesters look longingly abroad to Bolivia and Venezuela, where constitutional change has been part of the struggle against the old regimes.Regional protests have focused on the problem of \"centralism\", in which local needs are seen as being subordinated to the requirements of elites in the capital. In February, an uprising broke out in the Ays\u00e9n region of Chile, in a struggle over privatised hydroelectric projects. But the demands of the citizens' assemblies went far beyond the specific issues at stake: they assailed the constitution imposed during the dictatorship, demanded subsidies for the poor, employment opportunities, and the democratisation of regional decisions on the exploitation of natural resources.Workers' struggles have erupted with surprising militancy. Earlier this week, workers at the construction company Skanska used backhoe diggers against police during a strike over working hours. This is especially significant as union rates are extremely low in Chile, and legal industrial action is very difficult. Last week, the relatively conservative president of the Chilean Trade Union Congress, Arturo Mart\u00ednez, was defeated by the Communist party member B\u00e1rbara Figueroa. Mart\u00ednez's reign had been disfigured by corruption, and he was seen as a pawn of the Socialist party. A number of militant student federations have appeared to challenge the moderate, Socialist party-aligned Confederaci\u00f3n de Estudiantes de Chile (Confech), which initially led the protests. An increasingly visible leftist student movement is Consejos Estudiantiles, linked to the far left Movimiento de Izquierda Revolucionaria, formerly a guerrilla movement which sought to build armed resistance to Pinochet.The demands of the movement are extremely popular. But Chile's president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, is a billionaire who is estranged from the needs of most Chileans. Having been a supporter of the rightwing opposition to Pinochet, he has sought to continue the dictator's neoliberal policies. And, like Berlusconi, his wealth and free-market policies are tied to media interests: he purchased Chilevisi\u00f3n, now leased to the US media giant TBS, prior to assuming office. His approval ratings have plummeted throughout this season of unrest.In many ways, the pattern of unrest in Chile is repeating that in Quebec, and Asturias. In Quebec, an ongoing, militant student revolt centred on opposition to increasing tuition fees broadened into a call for a \"social strike\" bringing workers' demands to the fore. The student leaders asserted that the issue was one of class. Unions have provided logistical and legal support for the students, and the protests have spread through working-class neighbourhoods throughout Quebec. The unrest has already matured into a restless, broad-based social movement. Likewise, the Asturian miners' revolt escalated from a dispute over jobs into a wider conflict with the government, drawing in supporters across the country with a march on Madrid that attracted tens of thousands of supporters. A protest camp inspired by the Indignados movement was created by supporters in the regional capital, Oviedo.The tendency in these cases is for struggles that would previously have remained local, or sectional, to ignite a wider social rebellion aimed at concentrations of class power. In the context of a global crisis, localised flashpoints can no longer be contained. Diverse constituencies, from students and workers to local community groups, are finding that their aspirations are contiguous, their struggles linked. They have sought ways to unify their demands into a wide, frontal assault that cannot be contained or co-opted. In Chile, this has produced an incredibly optimistic, energised and combative left that dares to challenge the country's social order in a fundamental way for the first time in decades. The country that Pinochet terrorised is no longer afraid.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Protest"], "title": "Chile, the country Pinochet terrorised, is no longer afraid | Richard Seymour"},{"date": "2012-08-15T12:44:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Science has been widely recognised as a path to social and economic development. Despite the universality of this assumption, the discussion around how to develop effective science policies, seems an issue mistakenly reserved only for 'big countries'.Chile is a small country debating just how much research and development (R&D) should matter. We're in a good position in terms of scientific research, ranking 21st in the world (1st in South America) in terms of citations per article (in countries with more than 20,000 documents in the period between 1996-2010). But despite these impressive figures, In 2012, investment in R&D was only 0.5% of the GDP. And while Chile may now be a member of the OECD, we have no Ministry for Science and our research spending pales in comparison to the OECD average.In response, the scientific community came together to protest in 2007 and 2010 and to raise awareness of the low investment in R&D, the lack of a national plan for R&D (the last one was promulgated in 1988), and the urgent need for a new governance on research.The advocacy group, M\u00e1s Ciencia para Chile (More Science for Chile), was formed at the end of 2010 and close to 20 science students, postdoctoral researchers and journalists now work on the issues outlined above, as well as the promotion of better public attitudes to science and science communication. Some of us knew each other before hand; others joined along the way.We started with an online petition, targeting both asking citizens and scientists. To date, we've had 2,600 signatures. In August 2011, we gathered politicians, scientists, journalists, graduate students, and relevant experts in the field, in the Chilean parliament. The conference was themed \"Towards a public institution for the development of science in Chile\" and its main aim was to talk with the Commission on Science and Technology in the House of Deputies.This first experience was, undoubtedly, an 'initiation ritual' and a success in its own right. Although the government has been reluctant to consider our proposals (though they have been well received by some members of the Chilean Parliament), the need for a \"More Science for Chile\" campaign has became clear and we continue to make our case in the media. More letters, blogs and articles debating these issues are now being published than even before. In April of this year we published a letter in the magazine Science and we continue to stimulate debate in round table discussions and seminars. The movement has strengthened.Still, looking back at what has been achieved to date, it is fair to say we could have done better in some aspects of our campaign. We have had limited success in actively engaging local media and an significant part of the scientific community is still reluctant to participate in this debate - though this might be due in part to cultural traits.Next year Chilean presidential campaigns begin and will be a good opportunity to evaluate the impact of our initiatives. The promotion of the scientific research has never been a theme in previous elections, but the engagement of the scientific and academic community, after our work began, can hopefully change this. But change takes time. Political will is needed but engaging politicians in debate is as difficult - in Chile as it in anywhere else in the world. Likewise, more scientists need to step up and participate.Nonetheless, initiatives such as More Science for Chile (or indeed Science is Vital in UK) can still transform the way in which scientists and the political world interact and exchange information and ideas. And with continuous budget cuts or inadequate science policies now commonplace the world over, science policy could well be a new and fertile ground for young scientists to explore.Pablo Astudillo Besnier is part of the More Science for Chile coordination team. He is an engineer in molecular biotechnology at the University of Chile, and a PhD student in biological sciences at the Catholic University of Chile. Editor's note: A rebuttal letter from the president of National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT) has also been published in Science.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up for free to become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Academics", "Research", "Policy", "Higher education", "Education", "Research funding", "Research", "Education policy", "Politics", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Science funding crisis", "Science policy", "Science", "Research and development"], "title": "Chile: making investment in science a national priority"},{"date": "2012-09-21T21:45:11Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Book all your flights at the same time for the best prices. Some large airlines have agreements with small local carriers, or, like Lan, operate both international and domestic flights, which means they can offer either discounted multi-destination airpasses or add internal flights for a small additional cost. For example, Journey Latin America (journeylatinamerica.co.uk) offers a return fare to Santiago for \u00a3975, or one with added stops in both Puerto Montt and Punto Arenas for \u00a31,048. If you do buy separately, good prices can often be found on lesser-known airlines Sky (skyairline.cl) and Pal (palair.cl).Long-distance coaches in South America are in a league of their own.When taking a sleeper, forget about first and second class, and learn that all categories based around the word for bed: cama, semi-cama, and cama VIP/executivo refer to how much your seat reclines, with the top-end ones not far off an airline business-class seat. You'll often be served a hot meal and maybe even a glass of wine, but ask exactly what is included when you book and take your own snacks too, as quality can be hit and miss. Travelling by bus is the best way to appreciate the sheer size of various countries in South America, and can save you the cost of a night's accommodation if it's an overnighter.While foreigners rush to the nearest hotel, Argentinians and Chileans often holiday in caba\u00f1as, self-catering cabins that are great for families and small groups. Just type your destination into a search engine plus the word caba\u00f1a for plenty of affordable, no-frills options. Sleeping under canvas in national parks will also cut costs.Shafik Meghji, co-author of the new Rough Guide to Chile, says: \"If you want to escape the crowds and reach the most spectacular areas, you generally have to camp. Some sites are free and, although very basic, usually have wonderfully isolated locations. Others charge a fee and offer equipment for hire, bathrooms, cooking facilities and even cafes.\"Some parks also have refugios (mountain huts with bunk beds, hot showers and gas stoves), but be sure to book in advance during high season. For cities, try peer-to-peer accommodation networks, such as AirBnB.com, Wimdu.co.uk and Tripping.com, which now have much better coverage in South America.Organised wine tours are often expensive. Cut costs by arranging your own visits, using public transport. Several vineyards around Santiago, including Vina Undurraga (undurraga.cl), Cousi\u00f1o Macul (cousinomacul.com) and Concha y Toro (conchaytoro.com) can be visited by bus or metro. You'll usually be expected to book a time slot in advance. La Rural (bodegalarural.com.ar), about 12km from Mendoza, also has a wine museum.Chile does a fine line in set lunches, so make this the main meal of your day. Look for chalkboards outside restaurants. The key words are men\u00fa ejecutivo, sometimes shortened to simply men\u00fa, usually comprising starter, main course, dessert and drink. Similar deals exist in some Argentina restaurants too, although they are not so common.A few years ago, taxis were so cheap in Buenos Aires that some foreigners never even set foot on a bus or subte (underground train). Now they are learning to appreciate public transport as one of the best bargains in the city, with fares from 15p to 30p. The city's bus system is very comprehensive, but getting to grips with it \u2013 the official guide is Guia T, a book packed with grids and cross references \u2013 can seem harder than cracking the Da Vinci Code.But help is at hand: British expat Jonathan Evans will teach you all you need to know, while offering an introductory tour to the city sights (buenosaireslocaltours.com). The tour is free (leave a tip) and runs entirely on public transport, including a stint on an underground line with original wooden carriages dating from 1913.Buenos Aires pioneered the in-house restaurant scene and now it's taking fashion behind closed doors, too. Clothing has been one of the areas hardest hit by Argentina's soaring inflation, so instead of paying for rental premises, many designers open up their studios or workshops, offering well-priced limited editions that make unusual souvenirs.Try Vendaval (vendavalbuenosaires.com.ar), Pippy Miller (facebook.com/PippyMiller), Maison Abbey (facebook.com/maison.abbey), Jungle Vi.ai.pi (jungleviaipi.blogspot.com.ar) and Blit Bags (bolu.us). Pop-up fashion ferias (markets) are also popular in Santiago. Most are advertised via Facebook or Twitter. For a short cut, arrange a tour with Santiago stylist Ameriga Giannone (agstyling.com). In Buenos Aires, try Shop Hop BA (shop-buenosaires.com) or Creme de la Creme (cremedelacreme.com.ar).It's not wise to carry large amounts of cash, but a handful of dollars could lead to discounts on, well, almost anything in Argentina. The government has recently introduced very strict laws that make it incredibly hard for residents to change money, so people are clamouring for international currency, namely dollars. Keep a few in your hotel safe for negotiating deals.Looking to extend your trip and learn the lingo while keeping accommodation costs low? Hostels often offer travellers medium-term accommodation and other benefits (sometimes meals and Spanish lessons) in exchange for a few hours' work. You can arrange this on the hoof or by contacting establishments in advance. Or, for a guaranteed placement, try Real Hostel Work (realhostelwork.com), a new site that has links with hostels across South America.", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Flights", "Hotels", "Travel"], "title": "An eye on the pesos: budget holidays in Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2012-09-17T07:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile's Chilo\u00e9 archipelago, with green hills, its own distinct culture and simple way of life, is set to attract more tourists, with a luxurious new 12-room lodge, the Refugia (refugia.cl, rooms from $530!), on Castro island. But backpackers may prefer one of several hostels, such as Hostal Entretenido, also on Castro (entretenido.hostel.com, \u00a312).Thomson has launched a free iPad and iPhone app to do the job of a resort rep. It says it's the first major tour firm to use the technology, which lets its holidaymakers scroll through activities available in their holiday destination, find useful information and access virtual discount vouchers to be used at local bars and restaurants. Download the MyThomson app at Apple's App Store.Smoasting\"Social media boasting\" is changing the way young people see the world, say independent travel experts. They want to get more pictures taken of more sights to show off to their online friends, so they are likely to whizz around as many highlights as possible, and choose where they go and what they do with that all-important digital image in mind.The sun's still shining in ...\u2022 Bodrum, Turkey 33C\u2022 Madrid, Spain 31C\u2022 Athens, Greece 29C\u2022 Lisbon, Portugal 28C\u2022 Marseille, France 26CCooler days and shorter evenings mean autumn is on its way, but also on their way are vast numbers of migrating birds fleeing the northern winter. And one of the best places to spot them is the Essex marshes, where work has begun on the biggest manmade wetland in Europe. On the Essex coast, north-east of Southend-on-Sea, the Wallasea Wild Coast project, headed by the RSPB, is billed as Europe's largest civil engineering project, combined with Europe's largest marine habitat conservation project. Over five years, 6m tonnes of soil from the Crossrail tunnel excavations in London will be shipped to Wallasea Island, an uninhabited stretch of marshland.The soil will raise the low-lying island, creating a natural defence against rising sea levels and a 1,500-acre wetland of mudflats, saltmarsh, shallow lagoons and pasture.Conservationists say Wallasea Island's soil is so rich in bird-friendly nutrients, that a cubic metre of mud contains as much energy as a Mars bar.\"It's going to be superb for wildlife,\" says project manager Chris Tyas. \"Here, and on the adjacent Allfleet's Marsh, we expect to see around 50,000 over-wintering birds.\"The project will not be finished until 2019, but visitors are welcome to view progress as each section comes to life. Eventually there will be 15km of new paths, with hides, screens and mounds offering the chance to observe birds including lapwings, grey plovers, curlews, redshanks, teal and wigeon.Get there by tidal causeway or ferry from Burnham-on-Crouch. Facilities are basic, but there are walks on pushchair-friendly paths.\u2022 rspb.org.uk/wallaseaJennifer CoxHotelThe \"lively, convivial atmosphere\" of a late Georgian coffeehouse is to be recreated on Thursday at a foodie event at Simpson's Tavern chophouse in Cornhill, London, pictured, which was built in 1757. Diners in candlelit wooden booths will have a three-course meal and entertainment by actors and historians.\u2022 missbtakesawalk.eventbrite.com, \u00a367ppFestivalTickets have gone on sale for the inaugural New Yorker Festival, taking place in New York on 5-7 October. The iconic magazine's line-up includes Martin Amis and Zadie Smith discussing Money and Margaret Atwood and George Saunders on Utopia/Dystopia. There is a \"Conversation with Music\" session with Norah Jones, plus talks by Patti Smith, Christian Louboutin, Salman Rushdie, Ben Stiller, Sarah Silverman and Lisa Kudrow. \u2022 newyorker.com/festival/tickets Food and musicLimewood, the hip country house hotel in the New Forest, is hosting a series of free gigs for diners and guests, including one on Sunday 23 September by Police Dog Hogan, whose line-up includes Guardian Saturday magazine columnist Tim Dowling. The dinner menu includes fish and meat from the hotel's own smokehouse.\u2022 023-8028 7177, limewoodhotel.co.uk ", "tags": ["Travel", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Travel news roundup: going green in Chile and arty in New York"},{"date": "2012-08-03T20:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "When Nasa's Mars Science Laboratory (MSL) lands its rover, Curiosity, on Mars on Monday it will be the latest in a series of missions to the red planet that began more than three decades ago. The MSL mission isn't a search for life. Curiosity will sniff for chemicals that could be relevant to life, but it won't be looking for biological organisms as such.Why is this? Given the huge public interest in life on Mars, why doesn't Nasa just go and look for it directly?To understand, you have to go back to 1976, and Nasa's trail-blazing Viking mission. Two identical spacecraft landed on Mars specifically to look for microbes in the topsoil. Several experiments were performed. One consisted of adding a nutrient broth to soil to see if anything consumed it and gave off carbon dioxide. To scientists' surprise, something did \u2013 repeatedly \u2013 on both spacecraft. When the soil was heated, the response stopped. To this day the designer of the experiment, Gilbert Levin, insists he found life on Mars.Few scientists agree. The other Viking experiments did not give such clear-cut results, and Nasa's official position is that the mission did not detect life. So what caused the broth to emit gas? Nobody really knows. It may indeed have been life, but it may also have been complex soil chemistry. Conditions on the surface of Mars are very harsh. Radiation is intense. Water exists, but almost never in liquid form. Reactive chemicals such as oxidants can accumulate over immense durations without being washed away or neutralised. So it's perhaps no surprise that adding liquid broth made the soil fizz.Because of the confusing and inconclusive Viking results, the direct search for life on Mars has effectively stalled, as it's hard to know precisely what to look for. What would be an unambiguous signature of life anyway? Scientists can't even agree on a definition of life as we know it, let alone a possibly different form of life. And when the soil chemistry is complicated and unfamiliar, the problems are compounded.Clarification could come, however, by seeking out Mars-like surfaces on Earth and studying what, if anything, lives there. Mars is very cold and very dry but, of the two, the dryness is the more serious obstacle: water is crucial to known life. The driest place on Earth is the Atacama desert in Chile, and for years astrobiologists have been sifting the soil there, looking for hardy microbes able to eke out an existence in the hyper-arid terrain. For a while it looked as if no life whatsoever could withstand the desiccating conditions of the Atacama's core, but then in 2006 a visiting chemist from the University of Lleida in Spain, Jacek Wierzchos, made a chance discovery.Projecting out of the parched dusty surface of the desert are countless natural sculptures made of common salt. Wierzchos broke one open and was puzzled to find a distinctive dark layer inside. Arriving home in Barcelona, he dumped his bags and said to his wife excitedly: \"I have to go to the laboratory. I suspect something very curious.\" He was right. He dissolved the salt rock and soon found that the coloration was caused by several new species of microbe living inside. \"My vision field was full of micro-organisms!\" he remembers.How do Wierzchos's bizarre microbes survive? It seems that enough light penetrates the salt to permit photosynthesis. But what supplies the all-important water? This was the most astonishing part. A distinctive property of salt, known as deliquescence, is its ability to suck in moisture directly from the air. Salt deliquescence is familiar in most British households when salt cellars clog up on damp days. The microbes scavenge this sparse resource, ingesting tiny quantities of water from microscopic pores inside the crystalline matrix. Although the fierce desert sun bakes the water out of the salt in the daytime, there is enough humidity in the air at night to replenish it by deliquescent absorption. So even if it never rains, life can go on.Could Mars harbour microbes in a similar setting? It's not impossible. There are salt deposits there too, and although the Martian atmosphere is much thinner and holds less water vapour than the Atacama desert, there may be niche environments in which deliquescent absorption could still operate. Cocooned in salt, protected from the oxidizing soils and the intense ultra-violet radiation, Martian microbes may be able to photosynthesize, and possibly support a Lilliputian ecosystem sustained by traces of water permeating salt rocks.Unfortunately MSL won't be targeting such environments. It will, however, be looking for organic compounds that could hint at some form of Martian biology. Meanwhile, the Atacama desert hosts the closest analogue of what a real, live Martian might be like. We can only wait expectantly for signs of something similar on the red planet.", "tags": ["Curiosity rover", "Mars", "Space", "Science", "Nasa", "World news", "Chile", "Americas"], "title": "The key to life on Mars may well be found in Chile | Paul Davies"},{"date": "2012-09-19T04:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "There may be a cluster of wow-factor hotels in and around Torres del Paine national park, but they come with minimum stays and a hefty price tag. Explora Patagonia trips, for example, cost from around \u00a31,750pp for a four-night minimum stay (full-board with daily excursions), while a four-night stay at Tierra Patagonia on the edge of the park costs $2,450 per person. For more flexibility, try cheaper but still chic options in Puerto Natales, just over an hour's drive to the park entrance. Most hotels offer their own excursions at reasonable rates \u2013 in the park, or in more off-the-beaten-track areas \u2013 or will point you towards someone who does. You'll also experience real-life Patagonia in this quirky frontier town: settled by Scottish and German immigrants in 1911, it has a cosmopolitan vibe and a thriving foodie scene.This rustic, family-run B&B is set in two of the town's traditional clapboard houses. The 15 rooms \u2013 11 of them en suite \u2013 are homely, liberally sprinkled with weavings and hand-embroidered cushions. The common room is heated by a woodburning stove and stuffed with vintage furniture, with lots of places for a post-hike flop. There's a large blackboard on the wall where the in-house agency posts tour information. The ground-floor cafe sells delicious pastries and great coffee, and there's a small deli stocking organic and anti-allergy products. \u2022 +56 61 411945,\u00a0hostelamerindia.com. Doubles from US$25 B&BDon't be fooled by the office-block-style exterior. Step inside this Puerto Natales stalwart and you'll find the dark colours and heavy furniture have been replaced by a slate-and-stainless-steel lobby, a light-filled dining area with wooden beams and designer chairs, sleek sofas and white walls adorned with modern art. It was completely remodelled last year by Roberto Cancino, the interior designer of the Natalino (see below), and the 28 rooms follow the same minimalist lines, with neutral colours and lots of wood. Just one block from the main square, it's open all year round and will let you leave your luggage if you go off trekking. \u2022 +56 61 712180,\u00a0martingusinde.com. Doubles from $85 B&BKau means \"house\" in the local Tehuelche language, and a group of friends have turned one of the oldest clapboard houses in town into a chic, five-room B&B. The first-floor rooms all have views over Last Hope Sound \u2013 from the corner room's double-height windows you can see all the way to the Paine mountains. The small, bright rooms have cool design touches \u2013 wicker lampshades, handwoven throws, pebble coat hooks \u2013 and the wooden wall behind the bed has been recycled from the frames of greenhouses. The open-plan ground floor has plenty of seating, the Coffeemaker cafe and bar plus the services of Antares Travel, which offers kayaking, biking, horse riding and trekking adventures. \u2022 +56 61 415978,\u00a0kaulodge.com. Doubles from $45 B&BWhile the history of Bories House is inextricably linked to The Singular (see below) \u2013 it was once home to the factory's manager \u2013 its style is very different. Perched on the shore of Last Hope Sound with views across to the Serrano and Balmaceda glaciers, it's surrounded by 25 acres of grassland with grazing horses. The seven bedrooms mix antiques with contemporary comforts, including free Wi-Fi, and the restaurant serves classic Patagonian ingredients \u2013 fish, seafood, lamb \u2013 with a modern twist. Explore the surrounding countryside on horseback or by bike, or ask the hotel to help arrange trips further afield. \u2022 +56 61 412221,\u00a0borieshouse.com. Doubles from $95, three-bedroom cottage $200-$300 B&BWith its striking ergonomic design, centrally located Hotel IF stands out from its diminutive clapboard neighbours and is committed to sustainability \u2013 there's even recycled tea bag art in the dining area. Light streams through the glass wall of the atrium, providing natural heat and ventilation. A staircase dramatically zig-zags its way to the 15 small but perfectly formed rooms, where you'll find white walls and lots of native lenga wood. The two suites each have their own Jacuzzi and there's also a hot tub for sharing and stunning views from the third-floor terrace. The hotel specialises in four- and five-day fly-fishing itineraries but will also arrange day trips to the national parks, and mountain-biking tours. \u2022 +56 61 410312,\u00a0hotelifpatagonia.com. Doubles from $115 B&BThis hilltop hotel, a 10-minute walk from the centre, has panoramic views over Last Hope Sound and the mountains beyond. A newly built wing brings the room total to 28, and they all make the most of a small space, with wood-panelled walls and splashes of colour from handwoven woollen blankets. The large, open-plan lounge bar is kept cosy with an open fire and, if you don't want to go into town, the restaurant serves local dishes that you can pair with a good choice of South American wines. To ease any post-trek aches and pains, wend your way down the wooden walkway to the spa and the free outdoor hot tubs for spectacular sunset views. \u2022 +56 61 414168,\u00a0weskar.cl. Doubles from $115 B&BWhat Natalino lacks in waterfront views, it makes up for with a construction inspired by the Patagonian landscape. The white-and-glass facade \u2013 which turns icy-blue at night \u2013 resembles a glacier. Inside, a sparkling granite staircase cuts through three-storey-high concrete walls, as though it were a crack in the ice. The 21 minimalist rooms have white walls, slate floors, dark-wood furniture and flatscreen TVs, and the top-floor suite has a double-height loft space, perfect for families. There's also a heated indoor pool with views over town and beyond, a small fitness centre and lounge bar. \u2022 +56 61 414345,\u00a0hotelnatalino.com. Doubles from $144 B&BSet on the waterfront of Last Hope Sound, Indigo was designed to resemble a barn \u2013 externally at least. Most of its 29 rooms, lined with blonde wood and concrete tongue and groove, look out over the water and are reached via a stunning atrium with interlinking stairs and walkways. You can take in the view from the freestanding tub in the expansive suite, or head to the top-floor spa and one of the three free hot tubs for even better views. Built like the prow of a ship, the original triangular building houses the Mama Rosa restaurant and bar, where you can feast on organic steak washed down with a pisco sour made with calafate (a native berry) and watch the ever-changing sky through the enormous picture windows. \u2022 +56 61 413609, indigopatagonia.com. Doubles from $285 B&BOn the edge of town, this long, lean hotel was built to blend into its hilltop surroundings, with a living grass roof and exterior walls covered in grass bricks, just like those used by the region's first settlers. Its low-slung, ergonomic design means it maintains heat and the 22 rooms are plain but comfortable, made of rugged materials \u2013 concrete, slate and wood \u2013 softened with\u00a0throws and sheepskin rugs. They all look over Last Hope Sound, as do the two free alfresco hot tubs. If you need help with tours, the friendly staff can point you in the direction of operators in town. \u2022 +56 22 2123021,\u00a0altiplanico.cl. Doubles $270 B&BMore than just a hotel, The Singular is a piece of Patagonian history. European settlers introduced sheep to the region in the 1800s and this cavernous building, close to the village of Puerto Bories \u2013 4km from Puerto Natales \u2013 operated as a meatpacking and cold storage factory for 70 years. After a 10-year restoration, the new wing channels industrial chic with expanses of metal, glass, concrete and brick. Its 57 lofty rooms \u2013 along with the spa and indoor-outdoor swimming pool \u2013 have floor-to-ceiling views over snow-capped peaks and the icy waters of Last Hope Sound. The original double-height warehouse now houses a display of massive Victorian machinery, as well as the atmospheric bar and restaurant, where you can try local delicacies, from king crab to Magellan lamb and guanaco steak. There are over 20 top-notch excursions on offer, both in and out of the park, but this is also a great place for a luxurious splurge after a long trek. \u2022 +56 61 722030,\u00a0thesingular.com. Doubles from $350 B&B", "tags": ["Patagonia holidays", "Hotels", "Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Top 10s", "Bed and breakfasts", "Adventure travel"], "title": "Top 10 hotels in Puerto Natales, Patagonia, Chile"},{"date": "2012-08-30T16:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Up to 200,000 people marched through Santiago yesterday. Students and teachers protesting over education were supported by the Chilean Trade Union Congress, which called on members to join the march. It ended with police turning water cannon and teargas on the protesters. But the protests aren't going away. For over a year now, this revolt has been developing. Mass protests and general strikes have shaken the government, as when 600,000 workers walked out last August.The main frontline of conflict is the country's education system. In 1981, the Pinochet regime dismantled free public education. Primary and secondary education is paid for by a vouchers system, which involves the government paying private sector providers to educate the young. Higher education is dominated by private professional and technical colleges, which cost up to \u00a3530 a month to attend. The state exists primarily as a regulator rather than a provider. As a result, working-class Chileans often receive at best a poor education, and students end up burdened with debts.But the demand for free education drives a popular wedge right into the country's economic structure. The students and workers say that the country's tremendous copper resources should be used to pay for reforms rather than to enrich investors. The struggles to change the constitution reflect a recognition that the political framework established by the dictatorship is itself part of the problem. Protesters look longingly abroad to Bolivia and Venezuela, where constitutional change has been part of the struggle against the old regimes.Regional protests have focused on the problem of \"centralism\", in which local needs are seen as being subordinated to the requirements of elites in the capital. In February, an uprising broke out in the Ays\u00e9n region of Chile, in a struggle over privatised hydroelectric projects. But the demands of the citizens' assemblies went far beyond the specific issues at stake: they assailed the constitution imposed during the dictatorship, demanded subsidies for the poor, employment opportunities, and the democratisation of regional decisions on the exploitation of natural resources.Workers' struggles have erupted with surprising militancy. Earlier this week, workers at the construction company Skanska used backhoe diggers against police during a strike over working hours. This is especially significant as union rates are extremely low in Chile, and legal industrial action is very difficult. Last week, the relatively conservative president of the Chilean Trade Union Congress, Arturo Mart\u00ednez, was defeated by the Communist party member B\u00e1rbara Figueroa. Mart\u00ednez's reign had been disfigured by corruption, and he was seen as a pawn of the Socialist party. A number of militant student federations have appeared to challenge the moderate, Socialist party-aligned Confederaci\u00f3n de Estudiantes de Chile (Confech), which initially led the protests. An increasingly visible leftist student movement is Consejos Estudiantiles, linked to the far left Movimiento de Izquierda Revolucionaria, formerly a guerrilla movement which sought to build armed resistance to Pinochet.The demands of the movement are extremely popular. But Chile's president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, is a billionaire who is estranged from the needs of most Chileans. Having been a supporter of the rightwing opposition to Pinochet, he has sought to continue the dictator's neoliberal policies. And, like Berlusconi, his wealth and free-market policies are tied to media interests: he purchased Chilevisi\u00f3n, now leased to the US media giant TBS, prior to assuming office. His approval ratings have plummeted throughout this season of unrest.In many ways, the pattern of unrest in Chile is repeating that in Quebec, and Asturias. In Quebec, an ongoing, militant student revolt centred on opposition to increasing tuition fees broadened into a call for a \"social strike\" bringing workers' demands to the fore. The student leaders asserted that the issue was one of class. Unions have provided logistical and legal support for the students, and the protests have spread through working-class neighbourhoods throughout Quebec. The unrest has already matured into a restless, broad-based social movement. Likewise, the Asturian miners' revolt escalated from a dispute over jobs into a wider conflict with the government, drawing in supporters across the country with a march on Madrid that attracted tens of thousands of supporters. A protest camp inspired by the Indignados movement was created by supporters in the regional capital, Oviedo.The tendency in these cases is for struggles that would previously have remained local, or sectional, to ignite a wider social rebellion aimed at concentrations of class power. In the context of a global crisis, localised flashpoints can no longer be contained. Diverse constituencies, from students and workers to local community groups, are finding that their aspirations are contiguous, their struggles linked. They have sought ways to unify their demands into a wide, frontal assault that cannot be contained or co-opted. In Chile, this has produced an incredibly optimistic, energised and combative left that dares to challenge the country's social order in a fundamental way for the first time in decades. The country that Pinochet terrorised is no longer afraid.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Protest"], "title": "Chile, the country Pinochet terrorised, is no longer afraid | Richard Seymour"},{"date": "2012-08-15T12:44:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Science has been widely recognised as a path to social and economic development. Despite the universality of this assumption, the discussion around how to develop effective science policies, seems an issue mistakenly reserved only for 'big countries'.Chile is a small country debating just how much research and development (R&D) should matter. We're in a good position in terms of scientific research, ranking 21st in the world (1st in South America) in terms of citations per article (in countries with more than 20,000 documents in the period between 1996-2010). But despite these impressive figures, In 2012, investment in R&D was only 0.5% of the GDP. And while Chile may now be a member of the OECD, we have no Ministry for Science and our research spending pales in comparison to the OECD average.In response, the scientific community came together to protest in 2007 and 2010 and to raise awareness of the low investment in R&D, the lack of a national plan for R&D (the last one was promulgated in 1988), and the urgent need for a new governance on research.The advocacy group, M\u00e1s Ciencia para Chile (More Science for Chile), was formed at the end of 2010 and close to 20 science students, postdoctoral researchers and journalists now work on the issues outlined above, as well as the promotion of better public attitudes to science and science communication. Some of us knew each other before hand; others joined along the way.We started with an online petition, targeting both asking citizens and scientists. To date, we've had 2,600 signatures. In August 2011, we gathered politicians, scientists, journalists, graduate students, and relevant experts in the field, in the Chilean parliament. The conference was themed \"Towards a public institution for the development of science in Chile\" and its main aim was to talk with the Commission on Science and Technology in the House of Deputies.This first experience was, undoubtedly, an 'initiation ritual' and a success in its own right. Although the government has been reluctant to consider our proposals (though they have been well received by some members of the Chilean Parliament), the need for a \"More Science for Chile\" campaign has became clear and we continue to make our case in the media. More letters, blogs and articles debating these issues are now being published than even before. In April of this year we published a letter in the magazine Science and we continue to stimulate debate in round table discussions and seminars. The movement has strengthened.Still, looking back at what has been achieved to date, it is fair to say we could have done better in some aspects of our campaign. We have had limited success in actively engaging local media and an significant part of the scientific community is still reluctant to participate in this debate - though this might be due in part to cultural traits.Next year Chilean presidential campaigns begin and will be a good opportunity to evaluate the impact of our initiatives. The promotion of the scientific research has never been a theme in previous elections, but the engagement of the scientific and academic community, after our work began, can hopefully change this. But change takes time. Political will is needed but engaging politicians in debate is as difficult - in Chile as it in anywhere else in the world. Likewise, more scientists need to step up and participate.Nonetheless, initiatives such as More Science for Chile (or indeed Science is Vital in UK) can still transform the way in which scientists and the political world interact and exchange information and ideas. And with continuous budget cuts or inadequate science policies now commonplace the world over, science policy could well be a new and fertile ground for young scientists to explore.Pablo Astudillo Besnier is part of the More Science for Chile coordination team. He is an engineer in molecular biotechnology at the University of Chile, and a PhD student in biological sciences at the Catholic University of Chile. Editor's note: A rebuttal letter from the president of National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT) has also been published in Science.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up for free to become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Academics", "Research", "Policy", "Higher education", "Education", "Research funding", "Research", "Education policy", "Politics", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Science funding crisis", "Science policy", "Science", "Research and development"], "title": "Chile: making investment in science a national priority"},{"date": "2012-09-21T21:45:11Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Book all your flights at the same time for the best prices. Some large airlines have agreements with small local carriers, or, like Lan, operate both international and domestic flights, which means they can offer either discounted multi-destination airpasses or add internal flights for a small additional cost. For example, Journey Latin America (journeylatinamerica.co.uk) offers a return fare to Santiago for \u00a3975, or one with added stops in both Puerto Montt and Punto Arenas for \u00a31,048. If you do buy separately, good prices can often be found on lesser-known airlines Sky (skyairline.cl) and Pal (palair.cl).Long-distance coaches in South America are in a league of their own.When taking a sleeper, forget about first and second class, and learn that all categories based around the word for bed: cama, semi-cama, and cama VIP/executivo refer to how much your seat reclines, with the top-end ones not far off an airline business-class seat. You'll often be served a hot meal and maybe even a glass of wine, but ask exactly what is included when you book and take your own snacks too, as quality can be hit and miss. Travelling by bus is the best way to appreciate the sheer size of various countries in South America, and can save you the cost of a night's accommodation if it's an overnighter.While foreigners rush to the nearest hotel, Argentinians and Chileans often holiday in caba\u00f1as, self-catering cabins that are great for families and small groups. Just type your destination into a search engine plus the word caba\u00f1a for plenty of affordable, no-frills options. Sleeping under canvas in national parks will also cut costs.Shafik Meghji, co-author of the new Rough Guide to Chile, says: \"If you want to escape the crowds and reach the most spectacular areas, you generally have to camp. Some sites are free and, although very basic, usually have wonderfully isolated locations. Others charge a fee and offer equipment for hire, bathrooms, cooking facilities and even cafes.\"Some parks also have refugios (mountain huts with bunk beds, hot showers and gas stoves), but be sure to book in advance during high season. For cities, try peer-to-peer accommodation networks, such as AirBnB.com, Wimdu.co.uk and Tripping.com, which now have much better coverage in South America.Organised wine tours are often expensive. Cut costs by arranging your own visits, using public transport. Several vineyards around Santiago, including Vina Undurraga (undurraga.cl), Cousi\u00f1o Macul (cousinomacul.com) and Concha y Toro (conchaytoro.com) can be visited by bus or metro. You'll usually be expected to book a time slot in advance. La Rural (bodegalarural.com.ar), about 12km from Mendoza, also has a wine museum.Chile does a fine line in set lunches, so make this the main meal of your day. Look for chalkboards outside restaurants. The key words are men\u00fa ejecutivo, sometimes shortened to simply men\u00fa, usually comprising starter, main course, dessert and drink. Similar deals exist in some Argentina restaurants too, although they are not so common.A few years ago, taxis were so cheap in Buenos Aires that some foreigners never even set foot on a bus or subte (underground train). Now they are learning to appreciate public transport as one of the best bargains in the city, with fares from 15p to 30p. The city's bus system is very comprehensive, but getting to grips with it \u2013 the official guide is Guia T, a book packed with grids and cross references \u2013 can seem harder than cracking the Da Vinci Code.But help is at hand: British expat Jonathan Evans will teach you all you need to know, while offering an introductory tour to the city sights (buenosaireslocaltours.com). The tour is free (leave a tip) and runs entirely on public transport, including a stint on an underground line with original wooden carriages dating from 1913.Buenos Aires pioneered the in-house restaurant scene and now it's taking fashion behind closed doors, too. Clothing has been one of the areas hardest hit by Argentina's soaring inflation, so instead of paying for rental premises, many designers open up their studios or workshops, offering well-priced limited editions that make unusual souvenirs.Try Vendaval (vendavalbuenosaires.com.ar), Pippy Miller (facebook.com/PippyMiller), Maison Abbey (facebook.com/maison.abbey), Jungle Vi.ai.pi (jungleviaipi.blogspot.com.ar) and Blit Bags (bolu.us). Pop-up fashion ferias (markets) are also popular in Santiago. Most are advertised via Facebook or Twitter. For a short cut, arrange a tour with Santiago stylist Ameriga Giannone (agstyling.com). In Buenos Aires, try Shop Hop BA (shop-buenosaires.com) or Creme de la Creme (cremedelacreme.com.ar).It's not wise to carry large amounts of cash, but a handful of dollars could lead to discounts on, well, almost anything in Argentina. The government has recently introduced very strict laws that make it incredibly hard for residents to change money, so people are clamouring for international currency, namely dollars. Keep a few in your hotel safe for negotiating deals.Looking to extend your trip and learn the lingo while keeping accommodation costs low? Hostels often offer travellers medium-term accommodation and other benefits (sometimes meals and Spanish lessons) in exchange for a few hours' work. You can arrange this on the hoof or by contacting establishments in advance. Or, for a guaranteed placement, try Real Hostel Work (realhostelwork.com), a new site that has links with hostels across South America.", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Flights", "Hotels", "Travel"], "title": "An eye on the pesos: budget holidays in Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2012-09-17T07:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile's Chilo\u00e9 archipelago, with green hills, its own distinct culture and simple way of life, is set to attract more tourists, with a luxurious new 12-room lodge, the Refugia (refugia.cl, rooms from $530!), on Castro island. But backpackers may prefer one of several hostels, such as Hostal Entretenido, also on Castro (entretenido.hostel.com, \u00a312).Thomson has launched a free iPad and iPhone app to do the job of a resort rep. It says it's the first major tour firm to use the technology, which lets its holidaymakers scroll through activities available in their holiday destination, find useful information and access virtual discount vouchers to be used at local bars and restaurants. Download the MyThomson app at Apple's App Store.Smoasting\"Social media boasting\" is changing the way young people see the world, say independent travel experts. They want to get more pictures taken of more sights to show off to their online friends, so they are likely to whizz around as many highlights as possible, and choose where they go and what they do with that all-important digital image in mind.The sun's still shining in ...\u2022 Bodrum, Turkey 33C\u2022 Madrid, Spain 31C\u2022 Athens, Greece 29C\u2022 Lisbon, Portugal 28C\u2022 Marseille, France 26CCooler days and shorter evenings mean autumn is on its way, but also on their way are vast numbers of migrating birds fleeing the northern winter. And one of the best places to spot them is the Essex marshes, where work has begun on the biggest manmade wetland in Europe. On the Essex coast, north-east of Southend-on-Sea, the Wallasea Wild Coast project, headed by the RSPB, is billed as Europe's largest civil engineering project, combined with Europe's largest marine habitat conservation project. Over five years, 6m tonnes of soil from the Crossrail tunnel excavations in London will be shipped to Wallasea Island, an uninhabited stretch of marshland.The soil will raise the low-lying island, creating a natural defence against rising sea levels and a 1,500-acre wetland of mudflats, saltmarsh, shallow lagoons and pasture.Conservationists say Wallasea Island's soil is so rich in bird-friendly nutrients, that a cubic metre of mud contains as much energy as a Mars bar.\"It's going to be superb for wildlife,\" says project manager Chris Tyas. \"Here, and on the adjacent Allfleet's Marsh, we expect to see around 50,000 over-wintering birds.\"The project will not be finished until 2019, but visitors are welcome to view progress as each section comes to life. Eventually there will be 15km of new paths, with hides, screens and mounds offering the chance to observe birds including lapwings, grey plovers, curlews, redshanks, teal and wigeon.Get there by tidal causeway or ferry from Burnham-on-Crouch. Facilities are basic, but there are walks on pushchair-friendly paths.\u2022 rspb.org.uk/wallaseaJennifer CoxHotelThe \"lively, convivial atmosphere\" of a late Georgian coffeehouse is to be recreated on Thursday at a foodie event at Simpson's Tavern chophouse in Cornhill, London, pictured, which was built in 1757. Diners in candlelit wooden booths will have a three-course meal and entertainment by actors and historians.\u2022 missbtakesawalk.eventbrite.com, \u00a367ppFestivalTickets have gone on sale for the inaugural New Yorker Festival, taking place in New York on 5-7 October. The iconic magazine's line-up includes Martin Amis and Zadie Smith discussing Money and Margaret Atwood and George Saunders on Utopia/Dystopia. There is a \"Conversation with Music\" session with Norah Jones, plus talks by Patti Smith, Christian Louboutin, Salman Rushdie, Ben Stiller, Sarah Silverman and Lisa Kudrow. \u2022 newyorker.com/festival/tickets Food and musicLimewood, the hip country house hotel in the New Forest, is hosting a series of free gigs for diners and guests, including one on Sunday 23 September by Police Dog Hogan, whose line-up includes Guardian Saturday magazine columnist Tim Dowling. The dinner menu includes fish and meat from the hotel's own smokehouse.\u2022 023-8028 7177, limewoodhotel.co.uk ", "tags": ["Travel", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Travel news roundup: going green in Chile and arty in New York"},{"date": "2012-08-03T20:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "When Nasa's Mars Science Laboratory (MSL) lands its rover, Curiosity, on Mars on Monday it will be the latest in a series of missions to the red planet that began more than three decades ago. The MSL mission isn't a search for life. Curiosity will sniff for chemicals that could be relevant to life, but it won't be looking for biological organisms as such.Why is this? Given the huge public interest in life on Mars, why doesn't Nasa just go and look for it directly?To understand, you have to go back to 1976, and Nasa's trail-blazing Viking mission. Two identical spacecraft landed on Mars specifically to look for microbes in the topsoil. Several experiments were performed. One consisted of adding a nutrient broth to soil to see if anything consumed it and gave off carbon dioxide. To scientists' surprise, something did \u2013 repeatedly \u2013 on both spacecraft. When the soil was heated, the response stopped. To this day the designer of the experiment, Gilbert Levin, insists he found life on Mars.Few scientists agree. The other Viking experiments did not give such clear-cut results, and Nasa's official position is that the mission did not detect life. So what caused the broth to emit gas? Nobody really knows. It may indeed have been life, but it may also have been complex soil chemistry. Conditions on the surface of Mars are very harsh. Radiation is intense. Water exists, but almost never in liquid form. Reactive chemicals such as oxidants can accumulate over immense durations without being washed away or neutralised. So it's perhaps no surprise that adding liquid broth made the soil fizz.Because of the confusing and inconclusive Viking results, the direct search for life on Mars has effectively stalled, as it's hard to know precisely what to look for. What would be an unambiguous signature of life anyway? Scientists can't even agree on a definition of life as we know it, let alone a possibly different form of life. And when the soil chemistry is complicated and unfamiliar, the problems are compounded.Clarification could come, however, by seeking out Mars-like surfaces on Earth and studying what, if anything, lives there. Mars is very cold and very dry but, of the two, the dryness is the more serious obstacle: water is crucial to known life. The driest place on Earth is the Atacama desert in Chile, and for years astrobiologists have been sifting the soil there, looking for hardy microbes able to eke out an existence in the hyper-arid terrain. For a while it looked as if no life whatsoever could withstand the desiccating conditions of the Atacama's core, but then in 2006 a visiting chemist from the University of Lleida in Spain, Jacek Wierzchos, made a chance discovery.Projecting out of the parched dusty surface of the desert are countless natural sculptures made of common salt. Wierzchos broke one open and was puzzled to find a distinctive dark layer inside. Arriving home in Barcelona, he dumped his bags and said to his wife excitedly: \"I have to go to the laboratory. I suspect something very curious.\" He was right. He dissolved the salt rock and soon found that the coloration was caused by several new species of microbe living inside. \"My vision field was full of micro-organisms!\" he remembers.How do Wierzchos's bizarre microbes survive? It seems that enough light penetrates the salt to permit photosynthesis. But what supplies the all-important water? This was the most astonishing part. A distinctive property of salt, known as deliquescence, is its ability to suck in moisture directly from the air. Salt deliquescence is familiar in most British households when salt cellars clog up on damp days. The microbes scavenge this sparse resource, ingesting tiny quantities of water from microscopic pores inside the crystalline matrix. Although the fierce desert sun bakes the water out of the salt in the daytime, there is enough humidity in the air at night to replenish it by deliquescent absorption. So even if it never rains, life can go on.Could Mars harbour microbes in a similar setting? It's not impossible. There are salt deposits there too, and although the Martian atmosphere is much thinner and holds less water vapour than the Atacama desert, there may be niche environments in which deliquescent absorption could still operate. Cocooned in salt, protected from the oxidizing soils and the intense ultra-violet radiation, Martian microbes may be able to photosynthesize, and possibly support a Lilliputian ecosystem sustained by traces of water permeating salt rocks.Unfortunately MSL won't be targeting such environments. It will, however, be looking for organic compounds that could hint at some form of Martian biology. Meanwhile, the Atacama desert hosts the closest analogue of what a real, live Martian might be like. We can only wait expectantly for signs of something similar on the red planet.", "tags": ["Curiosity rover", "Mars", "Space", "Science", "Nasa", "World news", "Chile", "Americas"], "title": "The key to life on Mars may well be found in Chile | Paul Davies"},{"date": "2012-08-01T09:49:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Education is a hot issue in Chile.The country is fiercely debating the best way to create the schools and universities it needs as it transitions to an economy that relies as much on the skills and talent of its people as on its natural resources.Although classroom performance is among the best in Latin America and public spending on education has increased seven fold in the past 20 years, experts say there is a wide gap between the privately schooled rich and the majority who are too often failed by municipal education.Faced with a student population determined to engender change itself, the current government has promised to make improvements but in the meantime, a new social programme aimed at improving education in public schools is making significant headway.Like the 20-year-old Teach for America on which it is based, Ense\u00f1a Chile (\"Teach Chile\" or \"Chile Teaches\" in Spanish) selects and trains high-calibre university graduates in areas such as law, engineering, business administration and medicine, to teach in state schools in vulnerable communities across the country.After a rigorous selection process where fewer than one in 10 make the grade and an intense one-month training course, they spend two years working full-time in schools in the same conditions as the teachers.\"Half of the people who join us have never thought about teaching before,\" says Tomas Recart, Ensena Chile's co-founder and chief executive. \"We select people who are already trained; we just polish them up.\"What they lack in teaching experience, they make up for in leadership, drive and a determination to achieve results. \"We don't want them just to be effective; we want them to be transformational,\" Recart explains.Anglo American came on board as one of the programme's strategic partners at a crucial moment in late 2008 when the global economy was in crisis and Ense\u00f1a Chile was just weeks away from sending its first cohort of teachers into the classroom.Today, the company not only supports the programme financially, but also shares its managerial experience, with executives sitting on both the programme's strategic development and communications committees.Ense\u00f1a Chile has grown rapidly since 2008. Last year, it attracted 1,250 applicants, with 97 finally making it into the classroom. Spread around 54 schools in three regions of Chile, Recart estimates that around 20,000 pupils are now benefiting from the Ense\u00f1a Chile initiative.Many of the pupils come from troubled communities, plagued by drugs and petty crime. But once focused, their possibilities are endless.Javiera Horta, an Ense\u00f1a Chile recruit in her second year of teaching at a technical school in the southern city of Pitrufquen, says her biggest challenge was her pupils' indifference.Hailing mostly from local farming communities, they saw little point in education when their future lay in farming like generations before them. With her help, they are developing ambitions and challenging themselves. \"Before, they didn't care if they got a bad mark; now it affects them and they try harder,\" she says.Although the programme remains small in scale, it is already having a measurable impact on school results. An external evaluation by the Washington DC-based Inter-American Development Bank showed that, after just six months, pupils taught by Ense\u00f1a Chile recruits were achieving higher scores in maths and Spanish than those taught by their regular teachers.The main challenge is how the programme is viewed. Too many graduates see it as a form of charity when in reality, Recart says, it is \"the best graduate school in the country\".In the US and UK, employers have caught on. Last year, Teach for America was ranked the seventh best place to launch a career alongside the US State Department, KPMG and Ernst & Young. It is now the biggest recruiter of graduates from Harvard University.Recart is under no illusion that Ensena Chile is the solution to Chile's education problems. But it has changed the way the participants think about education and their own future, and Recart hopes it will create a new generation of Chilean business people with greater insight into the issue of education and its important role in the country's future.To read more about the initiative, visit www.ensenachile.cl (Spanish-language website) or www.facebook.com/ensenachileTom Azzopardi is a freelance journalist based in Santiago, Chile. He writes about business, energy, mining and tourism. He has contributed to a wide range of publications including AmericaEconomica, BBC Travel, BNA, Breakbulk, bUSinessCHILE, Fodor's, Mining MX, Northern Miner and Platts.Copy on this page is provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hub", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone", "Guardian sustainable business"], "title": "Graduates find success teaching in Chilean schools"},{"date": "2012-09-19T04:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "There may be a cluster of wow-factor hotels in and around Torres del Paine national park, but they come with minimum stays and a hefty price tag. Explora Patagonia trips, for example, cost from around \u00a31,750pp for a four-night minimum stay (full-board with daily excursions), while a four-night stay at Tierra Patagonia on the edge of the park costs $2,450 per person. For more flexibility, try cheaper but still chic options in Puerto Natales, just over an hour's drive to the park entrance. Most hotels offer their own excursions at reasonable rates \u2013 in the park, or in more off-the-beaten-track areas \u2013 or will point you towards someone who does. You'll also experience real-life Patagonia in this quirky frontier town: settled by Scottish and German immigrants in 1911, it has a cosmopolitan vibe and a thriving foodie scene.This rustic, family-run B&B is set in two of the town's traditional clapboard houses. The 15 rooms \u2013 11 of them en suite \u2013 are homely, liberally sprinkled with weavings and hand-embroidered cushions. The common room is heated by a woodburning stove and stuffed with vintage furniture, with lots of places for a post-hike flop. There's a large blackboard on the wall where the in-house agency posts tour information. The ground-floor cafe sells delicious pastries and great coffee, and there's a small deli stocking organic and anti-allergy products. \u2022 +56 61 411945,\u00a0hostelamerindia.com. Doubles from US$25 B&BDon't be fooled by the office-block-style exterior. Step inside this Puerto Natales stalwart and you'll find the dark colours and heavy furniture have been replaced by a slate-and-stainless-steel lobby, a light-filled dining area with wooden beams and designer chairs, sleek sofas and white walls adorned with modern art. It was completely remodelled last year by Roberto Cancino, the interior designer of the Natalino (see below), and the 28 rooms follow the same minimalist lines, with neutral colours and lots of wood. Just one block from the main square, it's open all year round and will let you leave your luggage if you go off trekking. \u2022 +56 61 712180,\u00a0martingusinde.com. Doubles from $85 B&BKau means \"house\" in the local Tehuelche language, and a group of friends have turned one of the oldest clapboard houses in town into a chic, five-room B&B. The first-floor rooms all have views over Last Hope Sound \u2013 from the corner room's double-height windows you can see all the way to the Paine mountains. The small, bright rooms have cool design touches \u2013 wicker lampshades, handwoven throws, pebble coat hooks \u2013 and the wooden wall behind the bed has been recycled from the frames of greenhouses. The open-plan ground floor has plenty of seating, the Coffeemaker cafe and bar plus the services of Antares Travel, which offers kayaking, biking, horse riding and trekking adventures. \u2022 +56 61 415978,\u00a0kaulodge.com. Doubles from $45 B&BWhile the history of Bories House is inextricably linked to The Singular (see below) \u2013 it was once home to the factory's manager \u2013 its style is very different. Perched on the shore of Last Hope Sound with views across to the Serrano and Balmaceda glaciers, it's surrounded by 25 acres of grassland with grazing horses. The seven bedrooms mix antiques with contemporary comforts, including free Wi-Fi, and the restaurant serves classic Patagonian ingredients \u2013 fish, seafood, lamb \u2013 with a modern twist. Explore the surrounding countryside on horseback or by bike, or ask the hotel to help arrange trips further afield. \u2022 +56 61 412221,\u00a0borieshouse.com. Doubles from $95, three-bedroom cottage $200-$300 B&BWith its striking ergonomic design, centrally located Hotel IF stands out from its diminutive clapboard neighbours and is committed to sustainability \u2013 there's even recycled tea bag art in the dining area. Light streams through the glass wall of the atrium, providing natural heat and ventilation. A staircase dramatically zig-zags its way to the 15 small but perfectly formed rooms, where you'll find white walls and lots of native lenga wood. The two suites each have their own Jacuzzi and there's also a hot tub for sharing and stunning views from the third-floor terrace. The hotel specialises in four- and five-day fly-fishing itineraries but will also arrange day trips to the national parks, and mountain-biking tours. \u2022 +56 61 410312,\u00a0hotelifpatagonia.com. Doubles from $115 B&BThis hilltop hotel, a 10-minute walk from the centre, has panoramic views over Last Hope Sound and the mountains beyond. A newly built wing brings the room total to 28, and they all make the most of a small space, with wood-panelled walls and splashes of colour from handwoven woollen blankets. The large, open-plan lounge bar is kept cosy with an open fire and, if you don't want to go into town, the restaurant serves local dishes that you can pair with a good choice of South American wines. To ease any post-trek aches and pains, wend your way down the wooden walkway to the spa and the free outdoor hot tubs for spectacular sunset views. \u2022 +56 61 414168,\u00a0weskar.cl. Doubles from $115 B&BWhat Natalino lacks in waterfront views, it makes up for with a construction inspired by the Patagonian landscape. The white-and-glass facade \u2013 which turns icy-blue at night \u2013 resembles a glacier. Inside, a sparkling granite staircase cuts through three-storey-high concrete walls, as though it were a crack in the ice. The 21 minimalist rooms have white walls, slate floors, dark-wood furniture and flatscreen TVs, and the top-floor suite has a double-height loft space, perfect for families. There's also a heated indoor pool with views over town and beyond, a small fitness centre and lounge bar. \u2022 +56 61 414345,\u00a0hotelnatalino.com. Doubles from $144 B&BSet on the waterfront of Last Hope Sound, Indigo was designed to resemble a barn \u2013 externally at least. Most of its 29 rooms, lined with blonde wood and concrete tongue and groove, look out over the water and are reached via a stunning atrium with interlinking stairs and walkways. You can take in the view from the freestanding tub in the expansive suite, or head to the top-floor spa and one of the three free hot tubs for even better views. Built like the prow of a ship, the original triangular building houses the Mama Rosa restaurant and bar, where you can feast on organic steak washed down with a pisco sour made with calafate (a native berry) and watch the ever-changing sky through the enormous picture windows. \u2022 +56 61 413609, indigopatagonia.com. Doubles from $285 B&BOn the edge of town, this long, lean hotel was built to blend into its hilltop surroundings, with a living grass roof and exterior walls covered in grass bricks, just like those used by the region's first settlers. Its low-slung, ergonomic design means it maintains heat and the 22 rooms are plain but comfortable, made of rugged materials \u2013 concrete, slate and wood \u2013 softened with\u00a0throws and sheepskin rugs. They all look over Last Hope Sound, as do the two free alfresco hot tubs. If you need help with tours, the friendly staff can point you in the direction of operators in town. \u2022 +56 22 2123021,\u00a0altiplanico.cl. Doubles $270 B&BMore than just a hotel, The Singular is a piece of Patagonian history. European settlers introduced sheep to the region in the 1800s and this cavernous building, close to the village of Puerto Bories \u2013 4km from Puerto Natales \u2013 operated as a meatpacking and cold storage factory for 70 years. After a 10-year restoration, the new wing channels industrial chic with expanses of metal, glass, concrete and brick. Its 57 lofty rooms \u2013 along with the spa and indoor-outdoor swimming pool \u2013 have floor-to-ceiling views over snow-capped peaks and the icy waters of Last Hope Sound. The original double-height warehouse now houses a display of massive Victorian machinery, as well as the atmospheric bar and restaurant, where you can try local delicacies, from king crab to Magellan lamb and guanaco steak. There are over 20 top-notch excursions on offer, both in and out of the park, but this is also a great place for a luxurious splurge after a long trek. \u2022 +56 61 722030,\u00a0thesingular.com. Doubles from $350 B&B", "tags": ["Patagonia holidays", "Hotels", "Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Top 10s", "Bed and breakfasts", "Adventure travel"], "title": "Top 10 hotels in Puerto Natales, Patagonia, Chile"},{"date": "2012-08-30T16:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Up to 200,000 people marched through Santiago yesterday. Students and teachers protesting over education were supported by the Chilean Trade Union Congress, which called on members to join the march. It ended with police turning water cannon and teargas on the protesters. But the protests aren't going away. For over a year now, this revolt has been developing. Mass protests and general strikes have shaken the government, as when 600,000 workers walked out last August.The main frontline of conflict is the country's education system. In 1981, the Pinochet regime dismantled free public education. Primary and secondary education is paid for by a vouchers system, which involves the government paying private sector providers to educate the young. Higher education is dominated by private professional and technical colleges, which cost up to \u00a3530 a month to attend. The state exists primarily as a regulator rather than a provider. As a result, working-class Chileans often receive at best a poor education, and students end up burdened with debts.But the demand for free education drives a popular wedge right into the country's economic structure. The students and workers say that the country's tremendous copper resources should be used to pay for reforms rather than to enrich investors. The struggles to change the constitution reflect a recognition that the political framework established by the dictatorship is itself part of the problem. Protesters look longingly abroad to Bolivia and Venezuela, where constitutional change has been part of the struggle against the old regimes.Regional protests have focused on the problem of \"centralism\", in which local needs are seen as being subordinated to the requirements of elites in the capital. In February, an uprising broke out in the Ays\u00e9n region of Chile, in a struggle over privatised hydroelectric projects. But the demands of the citizens' assemblies went far beyond the specific issues at stake: they assailed the constitution imposed during the dictatorship, demanded subsidies for the poor, employment opportunities, and the democratisation of regional decisions on the exploitation of natural resources.Workers' struggles have erupted with surprising militancy. Earlier this week, workers at the construction company Skanska used backhoe diggers against police during a strike over working hours. This is especially significant as union rates are extremely low in Chile, and legal industrial action is very difficult. Last week, the relatively conservative president of the Chilean Trade Union Congress, Arturo Mart\u00ednez, was defeated by the Communist party member B\u00e1rbara Figueroa. Mart\u00ednez's reign had been disfigured by corruption, and he was seen as a pawn of the Socialist party. A number of militant student federations have appeared to challenge the moderate, Socialist party-aligned Confederaci\u00f3n de Estudiantes de Chile (Confech), which initially led the protests. An increasingly visible leftist student movement is Consejos Estudiantiles, linked to the far left Movimiento de Izquierda Revolucionaria, formerly a guerrilla movement which sought to build armed resistance to Pinochet.The demands of the movement are extremely popular. But Chile's president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, is a billionaire who is estranged from the needs of most Chileans. Having been a supporter of the rightwing opposition to Pinochet, he has sought to continue the dictator's neoliberal policies. And, like Berlusconi, his wealth and free-market policies are tied to media interests: he purchased Chilevisi\u00f3n, now leased to the US media giant TBS, prior to assuming office. His approval ratings have plummeted throughout this season of unrest.In many ways, the pattern of unrest in Chile is repeating that in Quebec, and Asturias. In Quebec, an ongoing, militant student revolt centred on opposition to increasing tuition fees broadened into a call for a \"social strike\" bringing workers' demands to the fore. The student leaders asserted that the issue was one of class. Unions have provided logistical and legal support for the students, and the protests have spread through working-class neighbourhoods throughout Quebec. The unrest has already matured into a restless, broad-based social movement. Likewise, the Asturian miners' revolt escalated from a dispute over jobs into a wider conflict with the government, drawing in supporters across the country with a march on Madrid that attracted tens of thousands of supporters. A protest camp inspired by the Indignados movement was created by supporters in the regional capital, Oviedo.The tendency in these cases is for struggles that would previously have remained local, or sectional, to ignite a wider social rebellion aimed at concentrations of class power. In the context of a global crisis, localised flashpoints can no longer be contained. Diverse constituencies, from students and workers to local community groups, are finding that their aspirations are contiguous, their struggles linked. They have sought ways to unify their demands into a wide, frontal assault that cannot be contained or co-opted. In Chile, this has produced an incredibly optimistic, energised and combative left that dares to challenge the country's social order in a fundamental way for the first time in decades. The country that Pinochet terrorised is no longer afraid.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Protest"], "title": "Chile, the country Pinochet terrorised, is no longer afraid | Richard Seymour"},{"date": "2012-08-15T12:44:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Science has been widely recognised as a path to social and economic development. Despite the universality of this assumption, the discussion around how to develop effective science policies, seems an issue mistakenly reserved only for 'big countries'.Chile is a small country debating just how much research and development (R&D) should matter. We're in a good position in terms of scientific research, ranking 21st in the world (1st in South America) in terms of citations per article (in countries with more than 20,000 documents in the period between 1996-2010). But despite these impressive figures, In 2012, investment in R&D was only 0.5% of the GDP. And while Chile may now be a member of the OECD, we have no Ministry for Science and our research spending pales in comparison to the OECD average.In response, the scientific community came together to protest in 2007 and 2010 and to raise awareness of the low investment in R&D, the lack of a national plan for R&D (the last one was promulgated in 1988), and the urgent need for a new governance on research.The advocacy group, M\u00e1s Ciencia para Chile (More Science for Chile), was formed at the end of 2010 and close to 20 science students, postdoctoral researchers and journalists now work on the issues outlined above, as well as the promotion of better public attitudes to science and science communication. Some of us knew each other before hand; others joined along the way.We started with an online petition, targeting both asking citizens and scientists. To date, we've had 2,600 signatures. In August 2011, we gathered politicians, scientists, journalists, graduate students, and relevant experts in the field, in the Chilean parliament. The conference was themed \"Towards a public institution for the development of science in Chile\" and its main aim was to talk with the Commission on Science and Technology in the House of Deputies.This first experience was, undoubtedly, an 'initiation ritual' and a success in its own right. Although the government has been reluctant to consider our proposals (though they have been well received by some members of the Chilean Parliament), the need for a \"More Science for Chile\" campaign has became clear and we continue to make our case in the media. More letters, blogs and articles debating these issues are now being published than even before. In April of this year we published a letter in the magazine Science and we continue to stimulate debate in round table discussions and seminars. The movement has strengthened.Still, looking back at what has been achieved to date, it is fair to say we could have done better in some aspects of our campaign. We have had limited success in actively engaging local media and an significant part of the scientific community is still reluctant to participate in this debate - though this might be due in part to cultural traits.Next year Chilean presidential campaigns begin and will be a good opportunity to evaluate the impact of our initiatives. The promotion of the scientific research has never been a theme in previous elections, but the engagement of the scientific and academic community, after our work began, can hopefully change this. But change takes time. Political will is needed but engaging politicians in debate is as difficult - in Chile as it in anywhere else in the world. Likewise, more scientists need to step up and participate.Nonetheless, initiatives such as More Science for Chile (or indeed Science is Vital in UK) can still transform the way in which scientists and the political world interact and exchange information and ideas. And with continuous budget cuts or inadequate science policies now commonplace the world over, science policy could well be a new and fertile ground for young scientists to explore.Pablo Astudillo Besnier is part of the More Science for Chile coordination team. He is an engineer in molecular biotechnology at the University of Chile, and a PhD student in biological sciences at the Catholic University of Chile. Editor's note: A rebuttal letter from the president of National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT) has also been published in Science.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up for free to become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Academics", "Research", "Policy", "Higher education", "Education", "Research funding", "Research", "Education policy", "Politics", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Science funding crisis", "Science policy", "Science", "Research and development"], "title": "Chile: making investment in science a national priority"},{"date": "2012-09-21T21:45:11Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Book all your flights at the same time for the best prices. Some large airlines have agreements with small local carriers, or, like Lan, operate both international and domestic flights, which means they can offer either discounted multi-destination airpasses or add internal flights for a small additional cost. For example, Journey Latin America (journeylatinamerica.co.uk) offers a return fare to Santiago for \u00a3975, or one with added stops in both Puerto Montt and Punto Arenas for \u00a31,048. If you do buy separately, good prices can often be found on lesser-known airlines Sky (skyairline.cl) and Pal (palair.cl).Long-distance coaches in South America are in a league of their own.When taking a sleeper, forget about first and second class, and learn that all categories based around the word for bed: cama, semi-cama, and cama VIP/executivo refer to how much your seat reclines, with the top-end ones not far off an airline business-class seat. You'll often be served a hot meal and maybe even a glass of wine, but ask exactly what is included when you book and take your own snacks too, as quality can be hit and miss. Travelling by bus is the best way to appreciate the sheer size of various countries in South America, and can save you the cost of a night's accommodation if it's an overnighter.While foreigners rush to the nearest hotel, Argentinians and Chileans often holiday in caba\u00f1as, self-catering cabins that are great for families and small groups. Just type your destination into a search engine plus the word caba\u00f1a for plenty of affordable, no-frills options. Sleeping under canvas in national parks will also cut costs.Shafik Meghji, co-author of the new Rough Guide to Chile, says: \"If you want to escape the crowds and reach the most spectacular areas, you generally have to camp. Some sites are free and, although very basic, usually have wonderfully isolated locations. Others charge a fee and offer equipment for hire, bathrooms, cooking facilities and even cafes.\"Some parks also have refugios (mountain huts with bunk beds, hot showers and gas stoves), but be sure to book in advance during high season. For cities, try peer-to-peer accommodation networks, such as AirBnB.com, Wimdu.co.uk and Tripping.com, which now have much better coverage in South America.Organised wine tours are often expensive. Cut costs by arranging your own visits, using public transport. Several vineyards around Santiago, including Vina Undurraga (undurraga.cl), Cousi\u00f1o Macul (cousinomacul.com) and Concha y Toro (conchaytoro.com) can be visited by bus or metro. You'll usually be expected to book a time slot in advance. La Rural (bodegalarural.com.ar), about 12km from Mendoza, also has a wine museum.Chile does a fine line in set lunches, so make this the main meal of your day. Look for chalkboards outside restaurants. The key words are men\u00fa ejecutivo, sometimes shortened to simply men\u00fa, usually comprising starter, main course, dessert and drink. Similar deals exist in some Argentina restaurants too, although they are not so common.A few years ago, taxis were so cheap in Buenos Aires that some foreigners never even set foot on a bus or subte (underground train). Now they are learning to appreciate public transport as one of the best bargains in the city, with fares from 15p to 30p. The city's bus system is very comprehensive, but getting to grips with it \u2013 the official guide is Guia T, a book packed with grids and cross references \u2013 can seem harder than cracking the Da Vinci Code.But help is at hand: British expat Jonathan Evans will teach you all you need to know, while offering an introductory tour to the city sights (buenosaireslocaltours.com). The tour is free (leave a tip) and runs entirely on public transport, including a stint on an underground line with original wooden carriages dating from 1913.Buenos Aires pioneered the in-house restaurant scene and now it's taking fashion behind closed doors, too. Clothing has been one of the areas hardest hit by Argentina's soaring inflation, so instead of paying for rental premises, many designers open up their studios or workshops, offering well-priced limited editions that make unusual souvenirs.Try Vendaval (vendavalbuenosaires.com.ar), Pippy Miller (facebook.com/PippyMiller), Maison Abbey (facebook.com/maison.abbey), Jungle Vi.ai.pi (jungleviaipi.blogspot.com.ar) and Blit Bags (bolu.us). Pop-up fashion ferias (markets) are also popular in Santiago. Most are advertised via Facebook or Twitter. For a short cut, arrange a tour with Santiago stylist Ameriga Giannone (agstyling.com). In Buenos Aires, try Shop Hop BA (shop-buenosaires.com) or Creme de la Creme (cremedelacreme.com.ar).It's not wise to carry large amounts of cash, but a handful of dollars could lead to discounts on, well, almost anything in Argentina. The government has recently introduced very strict laws that make it incredibly hard for residents to change money, so people are clamouring for international currency, namely dollars. Keep a few in your hotel safe for negotiating deals.Looking to extend your trip and learn the lingo while keeping accommodation costs low? Hostels often offer travellers medium-term accommodation and other benefits (sometimes meals and Spanish lessons) in exchange for a few hours' work. You can arrange this on the hoof or by contacting establishments in advance. Or, for a guaranteed placement, try Real Hostel Work (realhostelwork.com), a new site that has links with hostels across South America.", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Chile holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Flights", "Hotels", "Travel"], "title": "An eye on the pesos: budget holidays in Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2012-09-17T07:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile's Chilo\u00e9 archipelago, with green hills, its own distinct culture and simple way of life, is set to attract more tourists, with a luxurious new 12-room lodge, the Refugia (refugia.cl, rooms from $530!), on Castro island. But backpackers may prefer one of several hostels, such as Hostal Entretenido, also on Castro (entretenido.hostel.com, \u00a312).Thomson has launched a free iPad and iPhone app to do the job of a resort rep. It says it's the first major tour firm to use the technology, which lets its holidaymakers scroll through activities available in their holiday destination, find useful information and access virtual discount vouchers to be used at local bars and restaurants. Download the MyThomson app at Apple's App Store.Smoasting\"Social media boasting\" is changing the way young people see the world, say independent travel experts. They want to get more pictures taken of more sights to show off to their online friends, so they are likely to whizz around as many highlights as possible, and choose where they go and what they do with that all-important digital image in mind.The sun's still shining in ...\u2022 Bodrum, Turkey 33C\u2022 Madrid, Spain 31C\u2022 Athens, Greece 29C\u2022 Lisbon, Portugal 28C\u2022 Marseille, France 26CCooler days and shorter evenings mean autumn is on its way, but also on their way are vast numbers of migrating birds fleeing the northern winter. And one of the best places to spot them is the Essex marshes, where work has begun on the biggest manmade wetland in Europe. On the Essex coast, north-east of Southend-on-Sea, the Wallasea Wild Coast project, headed by the RSPB, is billed as Europe's largest civil engineering project, combined with Europe's largest marine habitat conservation project. Over five years, 6m tonnes of soil from the Crossrail tunnel excavations in London will be shipped to Wallasea Island, an uninhabited stretch of marshland.The soil will raise the low-lying island, creating a natural defence against rising sea levels and a 1,500-acre wetland of mudflats, saltmarsh, shallow lagoons and pasture.Conservationists say Wallasea Island's soil is so rich in bird-friendly nutrients, that a cubic metre of mud contains as much energy as a Mars bar.\"It's going to be superb for wildlife,\" says project manager Chris Tyas. \"Here, and on the adjacent Allfleet's Marsh, we expect to see around 50,000 over-wintering birds.\"The project will not be finished until 2019, but visitors are welcome to view progress as each section comes to life. Eventually there will be 15km of new paths, with hides, screens and mounds offering the chance to observe birds including lapwings, grey plovers, curlews, redshanks, teal and wigeon.Get there by tidal causeway or ferry from Burnham-on-Crouch. Facilities are basic, but there are walks on pushchair-friendly paths.\u2022 rspb.org.uk/wallaseaJennifer CoxHotelThe \"lively, convivial atmosphere\" of a late Georgian coffeehouse is to be recreated on Thursday at a foodie event at Simpson's Tavern chophouse in Cornhill, London, pictured, which was built in 1757. Diners in candlelit wooden booths will have a three-course meal and entertainment by actors and historians.\u2022 missbtakesawalk.eventbrite.com, \u00a367ppFestivalTickets have gone on sale for the inaugural New Yorker Festival, taking place in New York on 5-7 October. The iconic magazine's line-up includes Martin Amis and Zadie Smith discussing Money and Margaret Atwood and George Saunders on Utopia/Dystopia. There is a \"Conversation with Music\" session with Norah Jones, plus talks by Patti Smith, Christian Louboutin, Salman Rushdie, Ben Stiller, Sarah Silverman and Lisa Kudrow. \u2022 newyorker.com/festival/tickets Food and musicLimewood, the hip country house hotel in the New Forest, is hosting a series of free gigs for diners and guests, including one on Sunday 23 September by Police Dog Hogan, whose line-up includes Guardian Saturday magazine columnist Tim Dowling. The dinner menu includes fish and meat from the hotel's own smokehouse.\u2022 023-8028 7177, limewoodhotel.co.uk ", "tags": ["Travel", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Travel news roundup: going green in Chile and arty in New York"},{"date": "2012-08-03T20:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "When Nasa's Mars Science Laboratory (MSL) lands its rover, Curiosity, on Mars on Monday it will be the latest in a series of missions to the red planet that began more than three decades ago. The MSL mission isn't a search for life. Curiosity will sniff for chemicals that could be relevant to life, but it won't be looking for biological organisms as such.Why is this? Given the huge public interest in life on Mars, why doesn't Nasa just go and look for it directly?To understand, you have to go back to 1976, and Nasa's trail-blazing Viking mission. Two identical spacecraft landed on Mars specifically to look for microbes in the topsoil. Several experiments were performed. One consisted of adding a nutrient broth to soil to see if anything consumed it and gave off carbon dioxide. To scientists' surprise, something did \u2013 repeatedly \u2013 on both spacecraft. When the soil was heated, the response stopped. To this day the designer of the experiment, Gilbert Levin, insists he found life on Mars.Few scientists agree. The other Viking experiments did not give such clear-cut results, and Nasa's official position is that the mission did not detect life. So what caused the broth to emit gas? Nobody really knows. It may indeed have been life, but it may also have been complex soil chemistry. Conditions on the surface of Mars are very harsh. Radiation is intense. Water exists, but almost never in liquid form. Reactive chemicals such as oxidants can accumulate over immense durations without being washed away or neutralised. So it's perhaps no surprise that adding liquid broth made the soil fizz.Because of the confusing and inconclusive Viking results, the direct search for life on Mars has effectively stalled, as it's hard to know precisely what to look for. What would be an unambiguous signature of life anyway? Scientists can't even agree on a definition of life as we know it, let alone a possibly different form of life. And when the soil chemistry is complicated and unfamiliar, the problems are compounded.Clarification could come, however, by seeking out Mars-like surfaces on Earth and studying what, if anything, lives there. Mars is very cold and very dry but, of the two, the dryness is the more serious obstacle: water is crucial to known life. The driest place on Earth is the Atacama desert in Chile, and for years astrobiologists have been sifting the soil there, looking for hardy microbes able to eke out an existence in the hyper-arid terrain. For a while it looked as if no life whatsoever could withstand the desiccating conditions of the Atacama's core, but then in 2006 a visiting chemist from the University of Lleida in Spain, Jacek Wierzchos, made a chance discovery.Projecting out of the parched dusty surface of the desert are countless natural sculptures made of common salt. Wierzchos broke one open and was puzzled to find a distinctive dark layer inside. Arriving home in Barcelona, he dumped his bags and said to his wife excitedly: \"I have to go to the laboratory. I suspect something very curious.\" He was right. He dissolved the salt rock and soon found that the coloration was caused by several new species of microbe living inside. \"My vision field was full of micro-organisms!\" he remembers.How do Wierzchos's bizarre microbes survive? It seems that enough light penetrates the salt to permit photosynthesis. But what supplies the all-important water? This was the most astonishing part. A distinctive property of salt, known as deliquescence, is its ability to suck in moisture directly from the air. Salt deliquescence is familiar in most British households when salt cellars clog up on damp days. The microbes scavenge this sparse resource, ingesting tiny quantities of water from microscopic pores inside the crystalline matrix. Although the fierce desert sun bakes the water out of the salt in the daytime, there is enough humidity in the air at night to replenish it by deliquescent absorption. So even if it never rains, life can go on.Could Mars harbour microbes in a similar setting? It's not impossible. There are salt deposits there too, and although the Martian atmosphere is much thinner and holds less water vapour than the Atacama desert, there may be niche environments in which deliquescent absorption could still operate. Cocooned in salt, protected from the oxidizing soils and the intense ultra-violet radiation, Martian microbes may be able to photosynthesize, and possibly support a Lilliputian ecosystem sustained by traces of water permeating salt rocks.Unfortunately MSL won't be targeting such environments. It will, however, be looking for organic compounds that could hint at some form of Martian biology. Meanwhile, the Atacama desert hosts the closest analogue of what a real, live Martian might be like. We can only wait expectantly for signs of something similar on the red planet.", "tags": ["Curiosity rover", "Mars", "Space", "Science", "Nasa", "World news", "Chile", "Americas"], "title": "The key to life on Mars may well be found in Chile | Paul Davies"},{"date": "2012-08-01T09:49:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Education is a hot issue in Chile.The country is fiercely debating the best way to create the schools and universities it needs as it transitions to an economy that relies as much on the skills and talent of its people as on its natural resources.Although classroom performance is among the best in Latin America and public spending on education has increased seven fold in the past 20 years, experts say there is a wide gap between the privately schooled rich and the majority who are too often failed by municipal education.Faced with a student population determined to engender change itself, the current government has promised to make improvements but in the meantime, a new social programme aimed at improving education in public schools is making significant headway.Like the 20-year-old Teach for America on which it is based, Ense\u00f1a Chile (\"Teach Chile\" or \"Chile Teaches\" in Spanish) selects and trains high-calibre university graduates in areas such as law, engineering, business administration and medicine, to teach in state schools in vulnerable communities across the country.After a rigorous selection process where fewer than one in 10 make the grade and an intense one-month training course, they spend two years working full-time in schools in the same conditions as the teachers.\"Half of the people who join us have never thought about teaching before,\" says Tomas Recart, Ensena Chile's co-founder and chief executive. \"We select people who are already trained; we just polish them up.\"What they lack in teaching experience, they make up for in leadership, drive and a determination to achieve results. \"We don't want them just to be effective; we want them to be transformational,\" Recart explains.Anglo American came on board as one of the programme's strategic partners at a crucial moment in late 2008 when the global economy was in crisis and Ense\u00f1a Chile was just weeks away from sending its first cohort of teachers into the classroom.Today, the company not only supports the programme financially, but also shares its managerial experience, with executives sitting on both the programme's strategic development and communications committees.Ense\u00f1a Chile has grown rapidly since 2008. Last year, it attracted 1,250 applicants, with 97 finally making it into the classroom. Spread around 54 schools in three regions of Chile, Recart estimates that around 20,000 pupils are now benefiting from the Ense\u00f1a Chile initiative.Many of the pupils come from troubled communities, plagued by drugs and petty crime. But once focused, their possibilities are endless.Javiera Horta, an Ense\u00f1a Chile recruit in her second year of teaching at a technical school in the southern city of Pitrufquen, says her biggest challenge was her pupils' indifference.Hailing mostly from local farming communities, they saw little point in education when their future lay in farming like generations before them. With her help, they are developing ambitions and challenging themselves. \"Before, they didn't care if they got a bad mark; now it affects them and they try harder,\" she says.Although the programme remains small in scale, it is already having a measurable impact on school results. An external evaluation by the Washington DC-based Inter-American Development Bank showed that, after just six months, pupils taught by Ense\u00f1a Chile recruits were achieving higher scores in maths and Spanish than those taught by their regular teachers.The main challenge is how the programme is viewed. Too many graduates see it as a form of charity when in reality, Recart says, it is \"the best graduate school in the country\".In the US and UK, employers have caught on. Last year, Teach for America was ranked the seventh best place to launch a career alongside the US State Department, KPMG and Ernst & Young. It is now the biggest recruiter of graduates from Harvard University.Recart is under no illusion that Ensena Chile is the solution to Chile's education problems. But it has changed the way the participants think about education and their own future, and Recart hopes it will create a new generation of Chilean business people with greater insight into the issue of education and its important role in the country's future.To read more about the initiative, visit www.ensenachile.cl (Spanish-language website) or www.facebook.com/ensenachileTom Azzopardi is a freelance journalist based in Santiago, Chile. He writes about business, energy, mining and tourism. He has contributed to a wide range of publications including AmericaEconomica, BBC Travel, BNA, Breakbulk, bUSinessCHILE, Fodor's, Mining MX, Northern Miner and Platts.Copy on this page is provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hub", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone", "Guardian sustainable business"], "title": "Graduates find success teaching in Chilean schools"},{"date": "2012-07-20T21:55:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Patricio Guzm\u00e1n, the director responsible for The Battle of Chile (1975-1979), widely regarded as one of the towering achievements in the history of documentary film, is talking about its invisibility in the country where he was born. \"It has never been transmitted on Chilean television. It provokes fear among executives. They do not dare. When all of us are dead then someone will dare to put it on screen. Meanwhile, every time someone on television is talking about Allende, they steal images from my film but use them in a context different from the original.\"The Battle of Chile emerged during a period of revolutionary turmoil across Latin America. Mass movements against authoritarianism and for socialist emancipation were on the rise. A generation of insurgent artists \u2013 among them Glauber Rocha in Brazil, Santiago Alvarez in Cuba, Mario Handler in Uruguay, Fernando Solanas and Octavia Getino in Argentina \u2013 developed a militant cinema that used documentary as a tool for countering state lies, showcasing subaltern testimonies and fashioning brave new aesthetics.Guzm\u00e1n, who was born in 1941, returned to Chile in 1971 after studying feature film-making in Madrid. There he found Salvador Allende, the first elected Marxist national leader in the west, in the early stages of his nationalisation and land redistribution programmes. He detected \u2013 and exulted in \u2013 a mood he has called \"communal infatuation\". But powerful reactionary forces soon mobilised. The Battle of Chile, split into three parts and lasting 260 minutes, chronicles the mounting tension that led to a coup d'\u00e9tat and the establishment of Augusto Pinochet's military junta.Made by a young team, it's an outstandingly photographed example of a newsreel film that captures the drama and volatility of the period. It features some indelible shots, most notably those of Argentinian cameraman Leonard Hendrickson, targeted by a right-wing soldier, capturing his own death on camera. Not only does it ignore \"expert\" commentary to focus on giving voice to the radical questioning and utopian strivings of Chilean working people, it offers an indictment of the CIA that bankrolled the reactionary putsch.The Battle of Chile nearly didn't happen. A blockade on film imports meant that Guzm\u00e1n relied on the generosity of Chris Marker, director of La Jet\u00e9e (1962), to send him 25,000 feet of stock. The violent clampdown on dissent that followed Pinochet's takeover meant the film had to be smuggled out of the country on a boat with the help of the Swedish embassy, only arriving in Stockholm three months later. The crew were all detained and, in late 1974, cameraman Jorge M\u00fcller was \"disappeared\". Guzm\u00e1n himself, by now exiled in Europe, sank into depression.\"I'm a film-maker who was very marked by the ways of the dictator,\" he says today. \"It has remained with me forever. I cannot leave it behind.\" Many of his subsequent documentaries \u2013 Chile, Obstinate Memory (1997), The Pinochet Case (2001), Salvador Allende (2004) \u2013 are devoted to honouring those men and women who, in spite of Pinochet's secret police and death squads, fought for social justice.\"Nobody knows what Pinochet did and nobody likes to talk about it,\" Guzm\u00e1n says. \"The school texts make no reference to it. When professors try to give their own opinion the next day parents come and say, 'I don't want you politicising my children.' It's impossible to talk about these things. Neither the teachers nor the fathers: they don't talk to their children, and of course the political system doesn't do it. They have tried to erase a whole section of history, and so obviously most young people are amazingly uninformed.\"His latest film, Nostalgia for the Light, is perhaps his most remarkable to date. It's a meditative, moving cine-essay (\"For me the camera is like having a pen to write,\" he says) in which Guzm\u00e1n visits Chile's Atacama Desert, one of the driest places on the planet and home to the world's largest telescopes. There he listens to astronomers talking about light, matter, and the secrets of the cosmos. He also accompanies septuagenarian women who trek across the desert, spades in hand, scouring its petrified expanses for fragments of their disappeared sons' bodies.Far from being a barren wilderness, the desert is what Guzm\u00e1n calls a \"vast open book of memory\". Fish, molluscs, mummified objects, Indian fortresses, pre-Columbian rock carvings \u2013 the Atacama preserves traces of the past. The women uncover fingers, teeth, parts of skulls \u2013 important remnants of individuals Pinochet's regime intended never to be found. And up above them all are the stars at which concentration-camp detainees in the 1970s and 1980s used to look up, a sky imbued not only with ineffable beauty but the yearning and melancholy of those incarcerated below it.Post-Allende Chile was a laboratory for Chicago-school monetarism; political repression and an aggressive embracing of the free market were inextricably linked. Nostalgia for the Light, as if in response to Pinochet's 1974 speech about how the new Chilean economy would involve \"scrubbing our minds clean\", talks about the violent exploitation in 19th-century mines and links political disappearances to the erasing of entire places inflicted by capitalism. \"First there were the Spanish Conquests,\" Guzm\u00e1n explains. \"They came and massacred the Indians. Later the Chileans also killed the Indians \u2013 from the north and from the south. Chile has a similar history to the United States in that way. It was a South American Far West. Afterwards, Pinochet represented the same kind of path \u2013 which was terrible.\" Today, among younger Chileans, he sees signs of an awakening. \"The student movement is demanding not just better education but better health, salaries \u2013 and a better memory. It's a social movement in its own right.\"However, Guzm\u00e1n is keen to downplay the widespread belief that he is first and foremost an ideological filmmaker. \"I'm not a sociologist. Neither am I a politician. I make films that are metaphorical and poetic; I interpret reality through my own personal way of looking.\" Many of his essay films, rarely seen in this country \u2013 Robinson Crusoe Island (1999), Madrid (2002), My Jules Verne (2005) \u2013 are deft, associative driftworks that support this\u00a0assertion.When he was young, Guzm\u00e1n wanted to be an astronomer. He sees the astronomers in Nostalgia for the Light \u2013 especially the startlingly eloquent Gaspar Galaz \u2013 as artists. \"They work, not only with mathematics, but with their intuition. They have to be instinctive about where to look to find something interesting. They are searching without any security about what they will find. As for making films: when you look through a camera it's not very different from looking through a telescope.\"Guzm\u00e1n himself could be said to be looking at Chile through a telescope. For many years he has lived in Paris, part of the huge artistic diaspora after Pinochet took power. I ask him if he now feels he's a French director. \"Each of us carries a backpack on our shoulders; this bag cannot be removed. One carries it one's whole life. In this bag one carries a lot of important things. For example: the memory of your mother, your birthplace, the first day at high school, your first love, your first lovesickness. All this is never forgotten.\"That is the true homeland \u2013 somewhere you live during the first 20 years of your life \u2013 and that accompanies you until death. It is not necessary to be in a particular country to feel Chilean, Peruvian and Argentinian. One's homeland is carried in the depths of one's heart.\"\u2022 Patricio Guzm\u00e1n: The Power of Memory is at the BFI until 26 July.", "tags": ["Documentary", "Film", "Culture", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Patricio Guzm\u00e1n, Chile's master of documentary, focuses on the stars"},{"date": "2012-11-02T12:04:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Confetti still litters the floor of the modest campaign headquarters and the victorious candidate is obviously exhausted, but for Maya Fern\u00e1ndez Allende the real hard work is just about to begin.Allende was just one year old on 11 September 1973 when a rightwing coup d'etat led to the death of her grandfather \u2013 Salvador Allende, the then Chilean president. The family fled to Cuba and for three decades the heir to one of Chile's most illustrious and controversial political fortunes was out of the limelight.All that changed last Sunday, when Fern\u00e1ndez Allende won the mayorship of \u00d1u\u00f1oa \u2013 a district of the capital, Santiago. But in addition to the pressures of office will come the pressure of assuming the Allende legacy.\"It makes me proud but [is also] a responsibility,\" she told the Guardian. \"My grandfather was a grand man, he was loyal with his people until the end \u2026 that is a principle, a value that is not often seen in politics.\"A week ago, Fern\u00e1ndez Allende's victory was not even discussed as a possibility, as the district had long been held by rightwing politicians. Her opponent Pedro Sabat had been re-elected three times by wide margins and held office for 16 years.But Chile has undergone a transformation over the past 18 months. Citizen groups fighting hydroelectric dams in Patagonia and demanding free university education have sprouted online and filled the streets with dozens of big marches \u2013 gathering up to 150,000 students. The upshot was the narrowest of wins for the challenger \u2014 by less than 100 votes out of more than 75,000 cast.Fern\u00e1ndez Allende put her victory down to a longstanding family tradition: hitting the streets. \"I walked the entire district twice,\" she said as a steady stream of giddy volunteers entered and left the one-storey, four-room office.\"When you enter a campaign, you enter to win, not to make a decent stand \u2026 I put all my heart into this and it was difficult, versus a mayor who had high voting support, but even before the final announcement I felt it was a victory, nobody had even come close to being that competitive with Sabat. We did this with a team, with a field operation.\"Students battled regularly with Sabat by occupying his office and shutting down numerous schools with strikes that lasted for as long as six months. Sabat faced strong condemnation for his assessment that a high school seized by female students had degenerated into \"a whorehouse\".Fern\u00e1ndez Allende said: \"That comment really shook people up. Even people who did not support the [striking] students thought that was too much.\"Apart from a whiteboard, the only office decoration was the official photograph of Salvador Allende wearing the Chilean presidential sash and his trademark thick black glasses. \"I would have loved to have known him in a more humane way, as a grandfather,\" said Fern\u00e1ndez Allende.\"I don't remember him, I was too small. But I am always entertained by the stories of his life that people tell me. Especially that despite his huge responsibilities, he had a great sense of humour. Always [there] with a wisecrack. That kept him going.\"Fern\u00e1ndez Allende, who lived in Cuba for nearly 20 years, added: \"The political bug bit me late in life.\" Even upon her return to Chile in 1992, she did little on the political front besides joining the Socialist party. But in 2008, she won her first election as a concejal, or neighbourhood representative, who works closely with the mayor.She also began to tap into the vein of goodwill still held by her grandfather and was elected to the Socialist party central committee in 2010. But it was the sudden outpouring of anger on the street that really galvanised her career \u2013 a sign that her grandfather's legacy of a humane socialist revolution lived on.\"The dictatorship did not allow you to express yourself, you might talk and then be disappeared, so people stopped talking,\" Fern\u00e1ndez Allende said. \"For 20 years nobody talked to anybody, you did not know who was a spy. There was lots of silence. People became more introverted. [Now] this generation has changed, it has come back to the street, to knock on the door, to bang the table.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chile welcomes Allende family back into political life"},{"date": "2012-11-02T12:04:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Confetti still litters the floor of the modest campaign headquarters and the victorious candidate is obviously exhausted, but for Maya Fern\u00e1ndez Allende the real hard work is just about to begin.Allende was just one year old on 11 September 1973 when a rightwing coup d'etat led to the death of her grandfather \u2013 Salvador Allende, the then Chilean president. The family fled to Cuba and for three decades the heir to one of Chile's most illustrious and controversial political fortunes was out of the limelight.All that changed last Sunday, when Fern\u00e1ndez Allende won the mayorship of \u00d1u\u00f1oa \u2013 a district of the capital, Santiago. But in addition to the pressures of office will come the pressure of assuming the Allende legacy.\"It makes me proud but [is also] a responsibility,\" she told the Guardian. \"My grandfather was a grand man, he was loyal with his people until the end \u2026 that is a principle, a value that is not often seen in politics.\"A week ago, Fern\u00e1ndez Allende's victory was not even discussed as a possibility, as the district had long been held by rightwing politicians. Her opponent Pedro Sabat had been re-elected three times by wide margins and held office for 16 years.But Chile has undergone a transformation over the past 18 months. Citizen groups fighting hydroelectric dams in Patagonia and demanding free university education have sprouted online and filled the streets with dozens of big marches \u2013 gathering up to 150,000 students. The upshot was the narrowest of wins for the challenger \u2014 by less than 100 votes out of more than 75,000 cast.Fern\u00e1ndez Allende put her victory down to a longstanding family tradition: hitting the streets. \"I walked the entire district twice,\" she said as a steady stream of giddy volunteers entered and left the one-storey, four-room office.\"When you enter a campaign, you enter to win, not to make a decent stand \u2026 I put all my heart into this and it was difficult, versus a mayor who had high voting support, but even before the final announcement I felt it was a victory, nobody had even come close to being that competitive with Sabat. We did this with a team, with a field operation.\"Students battled regularly with Sabat by occupying his office and shutting down numerous schools with strikes that lasted for as long as six months. Sabat faced strong condemnation for his assessment that a high school seized by female students had degenerated into \"a whorehouse\".Fern\u00e1ndez Allende said: \"That comment really shook people up. Even people who did not support the [striking] students thought that was too much.\"Apart from a whiteboard, the only office decoration was the official photograph of Salvador Allende wearing the Chilean presidential sash and his trademark thick black glasses. \"I would have loved to have known him in a more humane way, as a grandfather,\" said Fern\u00e1ndez Allende.\"I don't remember him, I was too small. But I am always entertained by the stories of his life that people tell me. Especially that despite his huge responsibilities, he had a great sense of humour. Always [there] with a wisecrack. That kept him going.\"Fern\u00e1ndez Allende, who lived in Cuba for nearly 20 years, added: \"The political bug bit me late in life.\" Even upon her return to Chile in 1992, she did little on the political front besides joining the Socialist party. But in 2008, she won her first election as a concejal, or neighbourhood representative, who works closely with the mayor.She also began to tap into the vein of goodwill still held by her grandfather and was elected to the Socialist party central committee in 2010. But it was the sudden outpouring of anger on the street that really galvanised her career \u2013 a sign that her grandfather's legacy of a humane socialist revolution lived on.\"The dictatorship did not allow you to express yourself, you might talk and then be disappeared, so people stopped talking,\" Fern\u00e1ndez Allende said. \"For 20 years nobody talked to anybody, you did not know who was a spy. There was lots of silence. People became more introverted. [Now] this generation has changed, it has come back to the street, to knock on the door, to bang the table.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chile welcomes Allende family back into political life"},{"date": "2012-10-16T17:37:44Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Britain's ambassador to Chile has been forced to apologise for what was meant to be a private Twitter jibe against Argentina and its defeat in the Falklands war.Jon Benjamin, a diplomat for more than 25 years, was so happy about getting a ticket to World Cup qualifying clash between the South American countries in Santiago on Tuesday that he went more public than he meant with a posting.Adopting a Chilean football taunt that goes \"Argentines, faggots, you lost the Malvinas because you are idiots\", Benjamin tweeted in Spanish, asking: \"Which islands did they take off who and for being what?\" But he forgot to make it private.Twitter criticism of the self-styled \"Hammers fan, Londoner at heart, Jewish atheist\" included threats of violence and antisemitic responses.Benjamin deleted his offending tweet and apologised, saying it had been a private tweet and that he had \"great affection for my Argentine friends and respect for their team\". The Argentine sports daily Ole said that was no excuse.The Foreign Office said: \"Our ambassador to Chile appears to have inadvertently caused some controversy in a tweet. He has deleted it.\"Benjamin was tweeting as usual on Tuesday, but on safer ground: retweeting the foreign secretary William Hague.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "UK news"], "title": "UK ambassador to Chile says sorry for Twitter jibe at Argentina"},{"date": "2012-11-02T12:04:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Confetti still litters the floor of the modest campaign headquarters and the victorious candidate is obviously exhausted, but for Maya Fern\u00e1ndez Allende the real hard work is just about to begin.Allende was just one year old on 11 September 1973 when a rightwing coup d'etat led to the death of her grandfather \u2013 Salvador Allende, the then Chilean president. The family fled to Cuba and for three decades the heir to one of Chile's most illustrious and controversial political fortunes was out of the limelight.All that changed last Sunday, when Fern\u00e1ndez Allende won the mayorship of \u00d1u\u00f1oa \u2013 a district of the capital, Santiago. But in addition to the pressures of office will come the pressure of assuming the Allende legacy.\"It makes me proud but [is also] a responsibility,\" she told the Guardian. \"My grandfather was a grand man, he was loyal with his people until the end \u2026 that is a principle, a value that is not often seen in politics.\"A week ago, Fern\u00e1ndez Allende's victory was not even discussed as a possibility, as the district had long been held by rightwing politicians. Her opponent Pedro Sabat had been re-elected three times by wide margins and held office for 16 years.But Chile has undergone a transformation over the past 18 months. Citizen groups fighting hydroelectric dams in Patagonia and demanding free university education have sprouted online and filled the streets with dozens of big marches \u2013 gathering up to 150,000 students. The upshot was the narrowest of wins for the challenger \u2014 by less than 100 votes out of more than 75,000 cast.Fern\u00e1ndez Allende put her victory down to a longstanding family tradition: hitting the streets. \"I walked the entire district twice,\" she said as a steady stream of giddy volunteers entered and left the one-storey, four-room office.\"When you enter a campaign, you enter to win, not to make a decent stand \u2026 I put all my heart into this and it was difficult, versus a mayor who had high voting support, but even before the final announcement I felt it was a victory, nobody had even come close to being that competitive with Sabat. We did this with a team, with a field operation.\"Students battled regularly with Sabat by occupying his office and shutting down numerous schools with strikes that lasted for as long as six months. Sabat faced strong condemnation for his assessment that a high school seized by female students had degenerated into \"a whorehouse\".Fern\u00e1ndez Allende said: \"That comment really shook people up. Even people who did not support the [striking] students thought that was too much.\"Apart from a whiteboard, the only office decoration was the official photograph of Salvador Allende wearing the Chilean presidential sash and his trademark thick black glasses. \"I would have loved to have known him in a more humane way, as a grandfather,\" said Fern\u00e1ndez Allende.\"I don't remember him, I was too small. But I am always entertained by the stories of his life that people tell me. Especially that despite his huge responsibilities, he had a great sense of humour. Always [there] with a wisecrack. That kept him going.\"Fern\u00e1ndez Allende, who lived in Cuba for nearly 20 years, added: \"The political bug bit me late in life.\" Even upon her return to Chile in 1992, she did little on the political front besides joining the Socialist party. But in 2008, she won her first election as a concejal, or neighbourhood representative, who works closely with the mayor.She also began to tap into the vein of goodwill still held by her grandfather and was elected to the Socialist party central committee in 2010. But it was the sudden outpouring of anger on the street that really galvanised her career \u2013 a sign that her grandfather's legacy of a humane socialist revolution lived on.\"The dictatorship did not allow you to express yourself, you might talk and then be disappeared, so people stopped talking,\" Fern\u00e1ndez Allende said. \"For 20 years nobody talked to anybody, you did not know who was a spy. There was lots of silence. People became more introverted. [Now] this generation has changed, it has come back to the street, to knock on the door, to bang the table.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chile welcomes Allende family back into political life"},{"date": "2012-10-16T17:37:44Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Britain's ambassador to Chile has been forced to apologise for what was meant to be a private Twitter jibe against Argentina and its defeat in the Falklands war.Jon Benjamin, a diplomat for more than 25 years, was so happy about getting a ticket to World Cup qualifying clash between the South American countries in Santiago on Tuesday that he went more public than he meant with a posting.Adopting a Chilean football taunt that goes \"Argentines, faggots, you lost the Malvinas because you are idiots\", Benjamin tweeted in Spanish, asking: \"Which islands did they take off who and for being what?\" But he forgot to make it private.Twitter criticism of the self-styled \"Hammers fan, Londoner at heart, Jewish atheist\" included threats of violence and antisemitic responses.Benjamin deleted his offending tweet and apologised, saying it had been a private tweet and that he had \"great affection for my Argentine friends and respect for their team\". The Argentine sports daily Ole said that was no excuse.The Foreign Office said: \"Our ambassador to Chile appears to have inadvertently caused some controversy in a tweet. He has deleted it.\"Benjamin was tweeting as usual on Tuesday, but on safer ground: retweeting the foreign secretary William Hague.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "UK news"], "title": "UK ambassador to Chile says sorry for Twitter jibe at Argentina"},{"date": "2012-11-20T19:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I almost didn't meet Camila Vallejo. She missed her flight from Chile, and by the time the allotted hour arrived, she was still 7,000 miles away in Santiago. To my surprise, I got a call the next day. Could we reschedule? Vallejo had charmed her way on to another plane, and was already scudding across the Atlantic. \"If she can shut down a city,\" mused the press officer for the National Union of Students, whose conference for global student leaders Vallejo was due to address, \"she can blag some air travel too.\"In 2011, that is what 24-year-old Vallejo sort of did. The then leader of Chile's most prominent student union, Vallejo \u2013 a would-be geographer \u2013 helped inspire a wave of protests that stopped the country in its tracks.Dozens of universities and hundreds of schools were occupied for months. Entire academic years had to be cancelled. Up to 200,000 students marched through Santiago every week, each a mini-carnival. The police response was often brutal: tear-gas and water cannon. There were even cases, Vallejo claims, \"of torture, of sexual abuse\". Police shot one boy dead. Vallejo (pronounced Va-yay-ho) was herself ambushed with tear-gas after a student meeting. \"My whole body was burning,\" she has said: \"it was brutal.\"These weren't like the student protests occurring simultaneously in Britain: they were more radical, far more popular, and demonstrably more effective. At its height in 2011, the movement's approval ratings topped 70%. It forced several concessions from the Chilean government, and ousted two ministers from office. And at its centre was Vallejo, \"a Botticelli beauty\" \u2013 in the words of the novelist Francisco Goldman \u2013 who at 23 became both a nose-ringed national treasure and a megastar of the international left.When she visited Mexico in June, crowds stood in the rain to see her. \"I\u00a0love you!\" some of them cried, handing her flowers. \"Camila Vallejo,\" wrote Alex Kapranos of Franz Ferdinand, one of her half-million Twitter followers: \"I\u00a0have a crush.\"It feels strange to see her in a more becalmed context. We meet on a grey day in a conference room at the University of East London, buried among the scrapyards and dual-carriageways of the Docklands. Outside, aeroplanes screech across the runway opposite every other minute. Inside, three-dozen jetlagged student leaders from across the globe \u2013 drained by two days of solid conferencing \u2013 slide in sleepily, some several minutes late for her speech. Vallejo calmly waits at the back. It's a strange place to find a revolutionary.What is she fighting for? Free education, first and foremost. According to the New York Times, Chile has proportionally the world's most expensive university education: degrees cost $3,400 a year, while Chile's average annual salary is only $8,500. More shockingly still, only 40% of teenagers get free high school classes. \"The choice people have is between having debt,\" Vallejo tells me later, \"or not having an education.\"But Vallejo's demands go further. Her generation is pushing for a wider reimagining of Chilean neoliberal society \u2013 a society that they argue has not changed enough since the days of Augusto Pinochet, and which has created one of the world's largest gaps between rich and poor.\"We realised the problem was bigger, the problem was structural,\" Vallejo tells me, or rather I'm told she tells me by her translator Rossana Leal, a Chilean who grew up in Scotland after her family fled the Pinochet regime. I don't speak Spanish, and Vallejo doesn't speak English, so our every utterance must pass through the stoic Leal. Everything gets confused, and I don't feel I'm meeting the Vallejo whose fluent and arresting presence you can find so easily on YouTube. We speak for 75 minutes, but cover what would have taken 15 in Spanish.Still, we give it a go. \"The debate became about the link between education and the bigger economic model in Chile,\" says Vallejo, explaining how the Chilean movement became so radical.The message, repeated in her speech, seems to jar with her surroundings. Her presentation is sandwiched by a talk from Lord Michael Bates, a Conservative who voted for fees, and another from Luis Juste, a banker turned corporate responsibility guru at Santander. So how does it feel to be squeezed between a banker and a Tory baron? And how much ground can Vallejo \u2013 a communist \u2013 really share with the centre-left NUS? Out of\u00a0pragmatism, the NUS favours refashioning fees, rather than culling them completely, and its leaders have not always been particularly supportive of creative protest.\"It makes it much more relevant to be here,\" says Vallejo, who gives a wry smile once Leal's translation filters through. \"It's important not to only talk to people who are convinced. We want to enable a continuous debate about what's happening with education.\"The Chilean movement only became so radical through a similarly lengthy debate, she says. \"2011 was the product of 10 years of debate,\" adds Paul Floor Pilquil, Vallejo's colleague at the University of Chile student union (Fech). A decade ago, he says, Chile's main student bodies were as bogged down in the smaller issues as they are now in Britain. \"But then we started to connect all the specific problems.\"Pilquil's intervention is significant not just for what he's saying, but that he's saying it at all. The interview was supposed to be a one-on-one with Vallejo, but \u2013 for diplomatic reasons \u2013 Pilquil has to be here too. Why? Because Vallejo is no longer the Fech president. She was ousted last winter by a law student, Gabriel Boric \u2013 and is now only his deputy. As such, she can't be seen to hog the limelight.Nine months on, Vallejo laughs off the loss. It was almost a blessing, she claims: \"The role of the president is very administrative. They have to see how the money is spent.\"The presidency had been draining in other ways. Vallejo received death threats that were serious enough for her parents \u2013 one-time opponents of Pinochet who now run an air-conditioning business \u2013 to persuade her to move home for her own safety. \"Kill the bitch,\" a later-sacked government official tweeted, in a riff on a quote from Pinochet.Vallejo lost the presidency in part because she was seen to be too prepared to engage with institutional hierarchies. She's a communist, for a start, she wants to form partnerships with centre-left parties, and she hasn't ruled out running for parliament.\"We're talking about the now,\" says Vallejo. \"We're talking about taking our proposals to the elections next year.\"It's a position that puts her at odds not just with other Chilean students, but with leftwing ideas on the rise in the rest of the world too. The Occupy movement \u2013 with which the Chilean student occupations are sometimes lumped \u2013 is seen as mainly anti-authoritarian; it rejects parliamentary democracy, and there's also clear water between it and the old-school workers' left. By contrast, Vallejo can see the logic in running for office.Why? It's cultural, says Vallejo. Salvador Allende, the Marxist president deposed by Pinochet's 1973 coup, \"is one of the most important political figures I admire\". Allende reached the presidency through democratic elections, which in Vallejo's mind shows how the electoral system can be used for hard-left ends.Some of her contemporaries disagree, but Vallejo doesn't necessarily see this as a bad thing: \"I'm not going to deny we don't have different political views, [and] we don't know if this debate is ever going to find a solution,\" says Vallejo, as another jet screeches to a halt at the nearby City airport. \"But we know the debate itself\u00a0is important.\"It's an oddly low-key statement to end on, but\u00a0then this has been an odd morning: one grey day in the Docklands, communist Camila Vallejo has blagged a flight halfway round the world to share a\u00a0platform with Conservative Michael Bates.", "tags": ["Chile", "Protest", "Students", "Student politics", "Education", "World news", "Economic policy", "Politics", "Americas"], "title": "Chilean rebel Camila Vallejo: 'The problem is bigger \u2013 it's structural'"},{"date": "2012-11-02T12:04:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Confetti still litters the floor of the modest campaign headquarters and the victorious candidate is obviously exhausted, but for Maya Fern\u00e1ndez Allende the real hard work is just about to begin.Allende was just one year old on 11 September 1973 when a rightwing coup d'etat led to the death of her grandfather \u2013 Salvador Allende, the then Chilean president. The family fled to Cuba and for three decades the heir to one of Chile's most illustrious and controversial political fortunes was out of the limelight.All that changed last Sunday, when Fern\u00e1ndez Allende won the mayorship of \u00d1u\u00f1oa \u2013 a district of the capital, Santiago. But in addition to the pressures of office will come the pressure of assuming the Allende legacy.\"It makes me proud but [is also] a responsibility,\" she told the Guardian. \"My grandfather was a grand man, he was loyal with his people until the end \u2026 that is a principle, a value that is not often seen in politics.\"A week ago, Fern\u00e1ndez Allende's victory was not even discussed as a possibility, as the district had long been held by rightwing politicians. Her opponent Pedro Sabat had been re-elected three times by wide margins and held office for 16 years.But Chile has undergone a transformation over the past 18 months. Citizen groups fighting hydroelectric dams in Patagonia and demanding free university education have sprouted online and filled the streets with dozens of big marches \u2013 gathering up to 150,000 students. The upshot was the narrowest of wins for the challenger \u2014 by less than 100 votes out of more than 75,000 cast.Fern\u00e1ndez Allende put her victory down to a longstanding family tradition: hitting the streets. \"I walked the entire district twice,\" she said as a steady stream of giddy volunteers entered and left the one-storey, four-room office.\"When you enter a campaign, you enter to win, not to make a decent stand \u2026 I put all my heart into this and it was difficult, versus a mayor who had high voting support, but even before the final announcement I felt it was a victory, nobody had even come close to being that competitive with Sabat. We did this with a team, with a field operation.\"Students battled regularly with Sabat by occupying his office and shutting down numerous schools with strikes that lasted for as long as six months. Sabat faced strong condemnation for his assessment that a high school seized by female students had degenerated into \"a whorehouse\".Fern\u00e1ndez Allende said: \"That comment really shook people up. Even people who did not support the [striking] students thought that was too much.\"Apart from a whiteboard, the only office decoration was the official photograph of Salvador Allende wearing the Chilean presidential sash and his trademark thick black glasses. \"I would have loved to have known him in a more humane way, as a grandfather,\" said Fern\u00e1ndez Allende.\"I don't remember him, I was too small. But I am always entertained by the stories of his life that people tell me. Especially that despite his huge responsibilities, he had a great sense of humour. Always [there] with a wisecrack. That kept him going.\"Fern\u00e1ndez Allende, who lived in Cuba for nearly 20 years, added: \"The political bug bit me late in life.\" Even upon her return to Chile in 1992, she did little on the political front besides joining the Socialist party. But in 2008, she won her first election as a concejal, or neighbourhood representative, who works closely with the mayor.She also began to tap into the vein of goodwill still held by her grandfather and was elected to the Socialist party central committee in 2010. But it was the sudden outpouring of anger on the street that really galvanised her career \u2013 a sign that her grandfather's legacy of a humane socialist revolution lived on.\"The dictatorship did not allow you to express yourself, you might talk and then be disappeared, so people stopped talking,\" Fern\u00e1ndez Allende said. \"For 20 years nobody talked to anybody, you did not know who was a spy. There was lots of silence. People became more introverted. [Now] this generation has changed, it has come back to the street, to knock on the door, to bang the table.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chile welcomes Allende family back into political life"},{"date": "2012-10-16T17:37:44Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Britain's ambassador to Chile has been forced to apologise for what was meant to be a private Twitter jibe against Argentina and its defeat in the Falklands war.Jon Benjamin, a diplomat for more than 25 years, was so happy about getting a ticket to World Cup qualifying clash between the South American countries in Santiago on Tuesday that he went more public than he meant with a posting.Adopting a Chilean football taunt that goes \"Argentines, faggots, you lost the Malvinas because you are idiots\", Benjamin tweeted in Spanish, asking: \"Which islands did they take off who and for being what?\" But he forgot to make it private.Twitter criticism of the self-styled \"Hammers fan, Londoner at heart, Jewish atheist\" included threats of violence and antisemitic responses.Benjamin deleted his offending tweet and apologised, saying it had been a private tweet and that he had \"great affection for my Argentine friends and respect for their team\". The Argentine sports daily Ole said that was no excuse.The Foreign Office said: \"Our ambassador to Chile appears to have inadvertently caused some controversy in a tweet. He has deleted it.\"Benjamin was tweeting as usual on Tuesday, but on safer ground: retweeting the foreign secretary William Hague.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "UK news"], "title": "UK ambassador to Chile says sorry for Twitter jibe at Argentina"},{"date": "2012-11-20T19:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I almost didn't meet Camila Vallejo. She missed her flight from Chile, and by the time the allotted hour arrived, she was still 7,000 miles away in Santiago. To my surprise, I got a call the next day. Could we reschedule? Vallejo had charmed her way on to another plane, and was already scudding across the Atlantic. \"If she can shut down a city,\" mused the press officer for the National Union of Students, whose conference for global student leaders Vallejo was due to address, \"she can blag some air travel too.\"In 2011, that is what 24-year-old Vallejo sort of did. The then leader of Chile's most prominent student union, Vallejo \u2013 a would-be geographer \u2013 helped inspire a wave of protests that stopped the country in its tracks.Dozens of universities and hundreds of schools were occupied for months. Entire academic years had to be cancelled. Up to 200,000 students marched through Santiago every week, each a mini-carnival. The police response was often brutal: tear-gas and water cannon. There were even cases, Vallejo claims, \"of torture, of sexual abuse\". Police shot one boy dead. Vallejo (pronounced Va-yay-ho) was herself ambushed with tear-gas after a student meeting. \"My whole body was burning,\" she has said: \"it was brutal.\"These weren't like the student protests occurring simultaneously in Britain: they were more radical, far more popular, and demonstrably more effective. At its height in 2011, the movement's approval ratings topped 70%. It forced several concessions from the Chilean government, and ousted two ministers from office. And at its centre was Vallejo, \"a Botticelli beauty\" \u2013 in the words of the novelist Francisco Goldman \u2013 who at 23 became both a nose-ringed national treasure and a megastar of the international left.When she visited Mexico in June, crowds stood in the rain to see her. \"I\u00a0love you!\" some of them cried, handing her flowers. \"Camila Vallejo,\" wrote Alex Kapranos of Franz Ferdinand, one of her half-million Twitter followers: \"I\u00a0have a crush.\"It feels strange to see her in a more becalmed context. We meet on a grey day in a conference room at the University of East London, buried among the scrapyards and dual-carriageways of the Docklands. Outside, aeroplanes screech across the runway opposite every other minute. Inside, three-dozen jetlagged student leaders from across the globe \u2013 drained by two days of solid conferencing \u2013 slide in sleepily, some several minutes late for her speech. Vallejo calmly waits at the back. It's a strange place to find a revolutionary.What is she fighting for? Free education, first and foremost. According to the New York Times, Chile has proportionally the world's most expensive university education: degrees cost $3,400 a year, while Chile's average annual salary is only $8,500. More shockingly still, only 40% of teenagers get free high school classes. \"The choice people have is between having debt,\" Vallejo tells me later, \"or not having an education.\"But Vallejo's demands go further. Her generation is pushing for a wider reimagining of Chilean neoliberal society \u2013 a society that they argue has not changed enough since the days of Augusto Pinochet, and which has created one of the world's largest gaps between rich and poor.\"We realised the problem was bigger, the problem was structural,\" Vallejo tells me, or rather I'm told she tells me by her translator Rossana Leal, a Chilean who grew up in Scotland after her family fled the Pinochet regime. I don't speak Spanish, and Vallejo doesn't speak English, so our every utterance must pass through the stoic Leal. Everything gets confused, and I don't feel I'm meeting the Vallejo whose fluent and arresting presence you can find so easily on YouTube. We speak for 75 minutes, but cover what would have taken 15 in Spanish.Still, we give it a go. \"The debate became about the link between education and the bigger economic model in Chile,\" says Vallejo, explaining how the Chilean movement became so radical.The message, repeated in her speech, seems to jar with her surroundings. Her presentation is sandwiched by a talk from Lord Michael Bates, a Conservative who voted for fees, and another from Luis Juste, a banker turned corporate responsibility guru at Santander. So how does it feel to be squeezed between a banker and a Tory baron? And how much ground can Vallejo \u2013 a communist \u2013 really share with the centre-left NUS? Out of\u00a0pragmatism, the NUS favours refashioning fees, rather than culling them completely, and its leaders have not always been particularly supportive of creative protest.\"It makes it much more relevant to be here,\" says Vallejo, who gives a wry smile once Leal's translation filters through. \"It's important not to only talk to people who are convinced. We want to enable a continuous debate about what's happening with education.\"The Chilean movement only became so radical through a similarly lengthy debate, she says. \"2011 was the product of 10 years of debate,\" adds Paul Floor Pilquil, Vallejo's colleague at the University of Chile student union (Fech). A decade ago, he says, Chile's main student bodies were as bogged down in the smaller issues as they are now in Britain. \"But then we started to connect all the specific problems.\"Pilquil's intervention is significant not just for what he's saying, but that he's saying it at all. The interview was supposed to be a one-on-one with Vallejo, but \u2013 for diplomatic reasons \u2013 Pilquil has to be here too. Why? Because Vallejo is no longer the Fech president. She was ousted last winter by a law student, Gabriel Boric \u2013 and is now only his deputy. As such, she can't be seen to hog the limelight.Nine months on, Vallejo laughs off the loss. It was almost a blessing, she claims: \"The role of the president is very administrative. They have to see how the money is spent.\"The presidency had been draining in other ways. Vallejo received death threats that were serious enough for her parents \u2013 one-time opponents of Pinochet who now run an air-conditioning business \u2013 to persuade her to move home for her own safety. \"Kill the bitch,\" a later-sacked government official tweeted, in a riff on a quote from Pinochet.Vallejo lost the presidency in part because she was seen to be too prepared to engage with institutional hierarchies. She's a communist, for a start, she wants to form partnerships with centre-left parties, and she hasn't ruled out running for parliament.\"We're talking about the now,\" says Vallejo. \"We're talking about taking our proposals to the elections next year.\"It's a position that puts her at odds not just with other Chilean students, but with leftwing ideas on the rise in the rest of the world too. The Occupy movement \u2013 with which the Chilean student occupations are sometimes lumped \u2013 is seen as mainly anti-authoritarian; it rejects parliamentary democracy, and there's also clear water between it and the old-school workers' left. By contrast, Vallejo can see the logic in running for office.Why? It's cultural, says Vallejo. Salvador Allende, the Marxist president deposed by Pinochet's 1973 coup, \"is one of the most important political figures I admire\". Allende reached the presidency through democratic elections, which in Vallejo's mind shows how the electoral system can be used for hard-left ends.Some of her contemporaries disagree, but Vallejo doesn't necessarily see this as a bad thing: \"I'm not going to deny we don't have different political views, [and] we don't know if this debate is ever going to find a solution,\" says Vallejo, as another jet screeches to a halt at the nearby City airport. \"But we know the debate itself\u00a0is important.\"It's an oddly low-key statement to end on, but\u00a0then this has been an odd morning: one grey day in the Docklands, communist Camila Vallejo has blagged a flight halfway round the world to share a\u00a0platform with Conservative Michael Bates.", "tags": ["Chile", "Protest", "Students", "Student politics", "Education", "World news", "Economic policy", "Politics", "Americas"], "title": "Chilean rebel Camila Vallejo: 'The problem is bigger \u2013 it's structural'"},{"date": "2012-12-04T12:05:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The politicisation of science is proving increasingly harmful to the advance of science. This phenomenon appears in two forms: firstly, when governments try to force the objectives of scientific research or the way that research is conducted; secondly, in the governance of research, in other words when the relationships between research councils and higher education institutions are set up without thought for evidence and sometimes in defiance of scientific consensus (providing an example of 'politics based evidence' instead of 'evidence-based policy' as Mark Henderson puts it in 'The Geek Manifesto').In the last few years, this politicisation has emerged in many countries facing the pressures of economic crisis, commonly when the centre of science policy making has been relocated to ministries of economy, business or industry \u2013 or related government departments. It often goes hand in hand with a downgrading of the status of science policy, no longer coming from independent entities but depending solely on the government agenda.What have been the implications of these actions and how has the scientific community reacted? In the UK, Canada and Spain, scientists have gone out to the streets and performed rallies against cuts to science and technology funding or mocking funerals to represent the \"death\" of science. In some instances this has resulted in governments giving funds back towards science and evidence-based policy making.Countries with an effective institutional framework for science usually maintain a linear model for the development of their science policy. Autonomous councils provide advice to the government and propose a national plan for science and technology. Ministries for science, or in some cases, education and research, have the task of implementing science and technology policy. Sector agencies inside those ministries are responsible for assigning grants and fellowships, where the excellence of the research, instead of the 'applicability', is the main criteria for economic support.Despite this global trend, the Chilean government has embarked in a controversial reform and scientists \u2013 as in those countries mentioned above \u2013 are taking a stand. The government has announced that it will relocate the National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT) from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Economy. Created in 1968 under the administration of the Ministry of Education, CONICYT is the main agency responsible for basic and applied research funding, as well as support provided for graduate and postgraduate researcher development. It is also in charge of science communication and outreach activities.Today, most research and development if produced inside the higher education system in Chile, with graduate programmes providing the bulk of 'human capital' performing such tasks. During the same period, there has been a persistent lack of industrial R&D and a low private investment on research and innovation and this has been acknowledged as one of the greatest limitations on Chile's wider development.The country's academic and scientific community has delivered a wide range of proposals to tackle these issues, including the need for new institutional and independent governance for science and an evolution towards a knowledge-based economy. Yet the Chilean government believes that transferring CONICYT to the Ministry of Economy will close this gap between universities and industries.As expected, the chancellors from the main Chilean universities opposed this change, arguing that this measure lacked technical foundation. The scientific community also rejected the idea, along with several National Awards of Science and members of parliament. The Chilean Academy of Sciences called for independent governance, again suggesting a dedicated ministry of research and development.At the More Science for Chile campaign, we published a report to show models of research governance in countries with academy-industry collaboration. It's also worth noting that only some economics boards gave their approval to suggested change \u2014 and only then through word of mouth than evidence-based arguments.Surprisingly, the Chilean government has rejected the creation of a dedicated research ministry (a longstanding request from the Chilean scientific community), while supporting the creation of dedicated ministries for other areas. Curiously, the arguments for the creation of such ministries are the same as those presented by the scientific community . But we remain unheard.The governance of research has become increasingly important worldwide. Collaboration between countries, the exchange of scientists and graduate students, and economic cooperation, are some of the areas that require strong governance and long-term science policy. But when evidence-based arguments are not provided, or when the main argument is more an expectation or hope based on a political ideology, the politicisation of science grows. Global efforts are needed to create an international environment of cooperation and shared knowledge and resources, based on common guidelines and principles, to avoid this harmful practice.Pablo Astudillo Besnier is part of the More Science for Chile coordination team. He is an engineer in molecular biotechnology at the University of Chile, and a PhD student in biological sciences at the Catholic University of Chile This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up for free to become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Policy", "Academics", "Research", "Research", "Higher education", "Education", "Science"], "title": "Politics of science: why governance of research must stay independent"},{"date": "2012-11-02T12:04:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Confetti still litters the floor of the modest campaign headquarters and the victorious candidate is obviously exhausted, but for Maya Fern\u00e1ndez Allende the real hard work is just about to begin.Allende was just one year old on 11 September 1973 when a rightwing coup d'etat led to the death of her grandfather \u2013 Salvador Allende, the then Chilean president. The family fled to Cuba and for three decades the heir to one of Chile's most illustrious and controversial political fortunes was out of the limelight.All that changed last Sunday, when Fern\u00e1ndez Allende won the mayorship of \u00d1u\u00f1oa \u2013 a district of the capital, Santiago. But in addition to the pressures of office will come the pressure of assuming the Allende legacy.\"It makes me proud but [is also] a responsibility,\" she told the Guardian. \"My grandfather was a grand man, he was loyal with his people until the end \u2026 that is a principle, a value that is not often seen in politics.\"A week ago, Fern\u00e1ndez Allende's victory was not even discussed as a possibility, as the district had long been held by rightwing politicians. Her opponent Pedro Sabat had been re-elected three times by wide margins and held office for 16 years.But Chile has undergone a transformation over the past 18 months. Citizen groups fighting hydroelectric dams in Patagonia and demanding free university education have sprouted online and filled the streets with dozens of big marches \u2013 gathering up to 150,000 students. The upshot was the narrowest of wins for the challenger \u2014 by less than 100 votes out of more than 75,000 cast.Fern\u00e1ndez Allende put her victory down to a longstanding family tradition: hitting the streets. \"I walked the entire district twice,\" she said as a steady stream of giddy volunteers entered and left the one-storey, four-room office.\"When you enter a campaign, you enter to win, not to make a decent stand \u2026 I put all my heart into this and it was difficult, versus a mayor who had high voting support, but even before the final announcement I felt it was a victory, nobody had even come close to being that competitive with Sabat. We did this with a team, with a field operation.\"Students battled regularly with Sabat by occupying his office and shutting down numerous schools with strikes that lasted for as long as six months. Sabat faced strong condemnation for his assessment that a high school seized by female students had degenerated into \"a whorehouse\".Fern\u00e1ndez Allende said: \"That comment really shook people up. Even people who did not support the [striking] students thought that was too much.\"Apart from a whiteboard, the only office decoration was the official photograph of Salvador Allende wearing the Chilean presidential sash and his trademark thick black glasses. \"I would have loved to have known him in a more humane way, as a grandfather,\" said Fern\u00e1ndez Allende.\"I don't remember him, I was too small. But I am always entertained by the stories of his life that people tell me. Especially that despite his huge responsibilities, he had a great sense of humour. Always [there] with a wisecrack. That kept him going.\"Fern\u00e1ndez Allende, who lived in Cuba for nearly 20 years, added: \"The political bug bit me late in life.\" Even upon her return to Chile in 1992, she did little on the political front besides joining the Socialist party. But in 2008, she won her first election as a concejal, or neighbourhood representative, who works closely with the mayor.She also began to tap into the vein of goodwill still held by her grandfather and was elected to the Socialist party central committee in 2010. But it was the sudden outpouring of anger on the street that really galvanised her career \u2013 a sign that her grandfather's legacy of a humane socialist revolution lived on.\"The dictatorship did not allow you to express yourself, you might talk and then be disappeared, so people stopped talking,\" Fern\u00e1ndez Allende said. \"For 20 years nobody talked to anybody, you did not know who was a spy. There was lots of silence. People became more introverted. [Now] this generation has changed, it has come back to the street, to knock on the door, to bang the table.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chile welcomes Allende family back into political life"},{"date": "2012-10-16T17:37:44Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Britain's ambassador to Chile has been forced to apologise for what was meant to be a private Twitter jibe against Argentina and its defeat in the Falklands war.Jon Benjamin, a diplomat for more than 25 years, was so happy about getting a ticket to World Cup qualifying clash between the South American countries in Santiago on Tuesday that he went more public than he meant with a posting.Adopting a Chilean football taunt that goes \"Argentines, faggots, you lost the Malvinas because you are idiots\", Benjamin tweeted in Spanish, asking: \"Which islands did they take off who and for being what?\" But he forgot to make it private.Twitter criticism of the self-styled \"Hammers fan, Londoner at heart, Jewish atheist\" included threats of violence and antisemitic responses.Benjamin deleted his offending tweet and apologised, saying it had been a private tweet and that he had \"great affection for my Argentine friends and respect for their team\". The Argentine sports daily Ole said that was no excuse.The Foreign Office said: \"Our ambassador to Chile appears to have inadvertently caused some controversy in a tweet. He has deleted it.\"Benjamin was tweeting as usual on Tuesday, but on safer ground: retweeting the foreign secretary William Hague.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "UK news"], "title": "UK ambassador to Chile says sorry for Twitter jibe at Argentina"},{"date": "2012-11-20T19:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I almost didn't meet Camila Vallejo. She missed her flight from Chile, and by the time the allotted hour arrived, she was still 7,000 miles away in Santiago. To my surprise, I got a call the next day. Could we reschedule? Vallejo had charmed her way on to another plane, and was already scudding across the Atlantic. \"If she can shut down a city,\" mused the press officer for the National Union of Students, whose conference for global student leaders Vallejo was due to address, \"she can blag some air travel too.\"In 2011, that is what 24-year-old Vallejo sort of did. The then leader of Chile's most prominent student union, Vallejo \u2013 a would-be geographer \u2013 helped inspire a wave of protests that stopped the country in its tracks.Dozens of universities and hundreds of schools were occupied for months. Entire academic years had to be cancelled. Up to 200,000 students marched through Santiago every week, each a mini-carnival. The police response was often brutal: tear-gas and water cannon. There were even cases, Vallejo claims, \"of torture, of sexual abuse\". Police shot one boy dead. Vallejo (pronounced Va-yay-ho) was herself ambushed with tear-gas after a student meeting. \"My whole body was burning,\" she has said: \"it was brutal.\"These weren't like the student protests occurring simultaneously in Britain: they were more radical, far more popular, and demonstrably more effective. At its height in 2011, the movement's approval ratings topped 70%. It forced several concessions from the Chilean government, and ousted two ministers from office. And at its centre was Vallejo, \"a Botticelli beauty\" \u2013 in the words of the novelist Francisco Goldman \u2013 who at 23 became both a nose-ringed national treasure and a megastar of the international left.When she visited Mexico in June, crowds stood in the rain to see her. \"I\u00a0love you!\" some of them cried, handing her flowers. \"Camila Vallejo,\" wrote Alex Kapranos of Franz Ferdinand, one of her half-million Twitter followers: \"I\u00a0have a crush.\"It feels strange to see her in a more becalmed context. We meet on a grey day in a conference room at the University of East London, buried among the scrapyards and dual-carriageways of the Docklands. Outside, aeroplanes screech across the runway opposite every other minute. Inside, three-dozen jetlagged student leaders from across the globe \u2013 drained by two days of solid conferencing \u2013 slide in sleepily, some several minutes late for her speech. Vallejo calmly waits at the back. It's a strange place to find a revolutionary.What is she fighting for? Free education, first and foremost. According to the New York Times, Chile has proportionally the world's most expensive university education: degrees cost $3,400 a year, while Chile's average annual salary is only $8,500. More shockingly still, only 40% of teenagers get free high school classes. \"The choice people have is between having debt,\" Vallejo tells me later, \"or not having an education.\"But Vallejo's demands go further. Her generation is pushing for a wider reimagining of Chilean neoliberal society \u2013 a society that they argue has not changed enough since the days of Augusto Pinochet, and which has created one of the world's largest gaps between rich and poor.\"We realised the problem was bigger, the problem was structural,\" Vallejo tells me, or rather I'm told she tells me by her translator Rossana Leal, a Chilean who grew up in Scotland after her family fled the Pinochet regime. I don't speak Spanish, and Vallejo doesn't speak English, so our every utterance must pass through the stoic Leal. Everything gets confused, and I don't feel I'm meeting the Vallejo whose fluent and arresting presence you can find so easily on YouTube. We speak for 75 minutes, but cover what would have taken 15 in Spanish.Still, we give it a go. \"The debate became about the link between education and the bigger economic model in Chile,\" says Vallejo, explaining how the Chilean movement became so radical.The message, repeated in her speech, seems to jar with her surroundings. Her presentation is sandwiched by a talk from Lord Michael Bates, a Conservative who voted for fees, and another from Luis Juste, a banker turned corporate responsibility guru at Santander. So how does it feel to be squeezed between a banker and a Tory baron? And how much ground can Vallejo \u2013 a communist \u2013 really share with the centre-left NUS? Out of\u00a0pragmatism, the NUS favours refashioning fees, rather than culling them completely, and its leaders have not always been particularly supportive of creative protest.\"It makes it much more relevant to be here,\" says Vallejo, who gives a wry smile once Leal's translation filters through. \"It's important not to only talk to people who are convinced. We want to enable a continuous debate about what's happening with education.\"The Chilean movement only became so radical through a similarly lengthy debate, she says. \"2011 was the product of 10 years of debate,\" adds Paul Floor Pilquil, Vallejo's colleague at the University of Chile student union (Fech). A decade ago, he says, Chile's main student bodies were as bogged down in the smaller issues as they are now in Britain. \"But then we started to connect all the specific problems.\"Pilquil's intervention is significant not just for what he's saying, but that he's saying it at all. The interview was supposed to be a one-on-one with Vallejo, but \u2013 for diplomatic reasons \u2013 Pilquil has to be here too. Why? Because Vallejo is no longer the Fech president. She was ousted last winter by a law student, Gabriel Boric \u2013 and is now only his deputy. As such, she can't be seen to hog the limelight.Nine months on, Vallejo laughs off the loss. It was almost a blessing, she claims: \"The role of the president is very administrative. They have to see how the money is spent.\"The presidency had been draining in other ways. Vallejo received death threats that were serious enough for her parents \u2013 one-time opponents of Pinochet who now run an air-conditioning business \u2013 to persuade her to move home for her own safety. \"Kill the bitch,\" a later-sacked government official tweeted, in a riff on a quote from Pinochet.Vallejo lost the presidency in part because she was seen to be too prepared to engage with institutional hierarchies. She's a communist, for a start, she wants to form partnerships with centre-left parties, and she hasn't ruled out running for parliament.\"We're talking about the now,\" says Vallejo. \"We're talking about taking our proposals to the elections next year.\"It's a position that puts her at odds not just with other Chilean students, but with leftwing ideas on the rise in the rest of the world too. The Occupy movement \u2013 with which the Chilean student occupations are sometimes lumped \u2013 is seen as mainly anti-authoritarian; it rejects parliamentary democracy, and there's also clear water between it and the old-school workers' left. By contrast, Vallejo can see the logic in running for office.Why? It's cultural, says Vallejo. Salvador Allende, the Marxist president deposed by Pinochet's 1973 coup, \"is one of the most important political figures I admire\". Allende reached the presidency through democratic elections, which in Vallejo's mind shows how the electoral system can be used for hard-left ends.Some of her contemporaries disagree, but Vallejo doesn't necessarily see this as a bad thing: \"I'm not going to deny we don't have different political views, [and] we don't know if this debate is ever going to find a solution,\" says Vallejo, as another jet screeches to a halt at the nearby City airport. \"But we know the debate itself\u00a0is important.\"It's an oddly low-key statement to end on, but\u00a0then this has been an odd morning: one grey day in the Docklands, communist Camila Vallejo has blagged a flight halfway round the world to share a\u00a0platform with Conservative Michael Bates.", "tags": ["Chile", "Protest", "Students", "Student politics", "Education", "World news", "Economic policy", "Politics", "Americas"], "title": "Chilean rebel Camila Vallejo: 'The problem is bigger \u2013 it's structural'"},{"date": "2012-12-04T12:05:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The politicisation of science is proving increasingly harmful to the advance of science. This phenomenon appears in two forms: firstly, when governments try to force the objectives of scientific research or the way that research is conducted; secondly, in the governance of research, in other words when the relationships between research councils and higher education institutions are set up without thought for evidence and sometimes in defiance of scientific consensus (providing an example of 'politics based evidence' instead of 'evidence-based policy' as Mark Henderson puts it in 'The Geek Manifesto').In the last few years, this politicisation has emerged in many countries facing the pressures of economic crisis, commonly when the centre of science policy making has been relocated to ministries of economy, business or industry \u2013 or related government departments. It often goes hand in hand with a downgrading of the status of science policy, no longer coming from independent entities but depending solely on the government agenda.What have been the implications of these actions and how has the scientific community reacted? In the UK, Canada and Spain, scientists have gone out to the streets and performed rallies against cuts to science and technology funding or mocking funerals to represent the \"death\" of science. In some instances this has resulted in governments giving funds back towards science and evidence-based policy making.Countries with an effective institutional framework for science usually maintain a linear model for the development of their science policy. Autonomous councils provide advice to the government and propose a national plan for science and technology. Ministries for science, or in some cases, education and research, have the task of implementing science and technology policy. Sector agencies inside those ministries are responsible for assigning grants and fellowships, where the excellence of the research, instead of the 'applicability', is the main criteria for economic support.Despite this global trend, the Chilean government has embarked in a controversial reform and scientists \u2013 as in those countries mentioned above \u2013 are taking a stand. The government has announced that it will relocate the National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT) from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Economy. Created in 1968 under the administration of the Ministry of Education, CONICYT is the main agency responsible for basic and applied research funding, as well as support provided for graduate and postgraduate researcher development. It is also in charge of science communication and outreach activities.Today, most research and development if produced inside the higher education system in Chile, with graduate programmes providing the bulk of 'human capital' performing such tasks. During the same period, there has been a persistent lack of industrial R&D and a low private investment on research and innovation and this has been acknowledged as one of the greatest limitations on Chile's wider development.The country's academic and scientific community has delivered a wide range of proposals to tackle these issues, including the need for new institutional and independent governance for science and an evolution towards a knowledge-based economy. Yet the Chilean government believes that transferring CONICYT to the Ministry of Economy will close this gap between universities and industries.As expected, the chancellors from the main Chilean universities opposed this change, arguing that this measure lacked technical foundation. The scientific community also rejected the idea, along with several National Awards of Science and members of parliament. The Chilean Academy of Sciences called for independent governance, again suggesting a dedicated ministry of research and development.At the More Science for Chile campaign, we published a report to show models of research governance in countries with academy-industry collaboration. It's also worth noting that only some economics boards gave their approval to suggested change \u2014 and only then through word of mouth than evidence-based arguments.Surprisingly, the Chilean government has rejected the creation of a dedicated research ministry (a longstanding request from the Chilean scientific community), while supporting the creation of dedicated ministries for other areas. Curiously, the arguments for the creation of such ministries are the same as those presented by the scientific community . But we remain unheard.The governance of research has become increasingly important worldwide. Collaboration between countries, the exchange of scientists and graduate students, and economic cooperation, are some of the areas that require strong governance and long-term science policy. But when evidence-based arguments are not provided, or when the main argument is more an expectation or hope based on a political ideology, the politicisation of science grows. Global efforts are needed to create an international environment of cooperation and shared knowledge and resources, based on common guidelines and principles, to avoid this harmful practice.Pablo Astudillo Besnier is part of the More Science for Chile coordination team. He is an engineer in molecular biotechnology at the University of Chile, and a PhD student in biological sciences at the Catholic University of Chile This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up for free to become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Policy", "Academics", "Research", "Research", "Higher education", "Education", "Science"], "title": "Politics of science: why governance of research must stay independent"},{"date": "2012-10-02T08:49:36Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Metro International is expanding its push into Latin America by launching a version of its free daily in Puerto Rico's capital, San Juan. Preview copies will be available today.Metro is already the largest title across Latin America, with nearly 3m readers in Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Peru, Guatemala and Colombia.The Puerto Rico launch is a joint venture with PR Media Partners - a consortium of local and international investors - in which Metro Int holds 70% of the shares.Metro International is a Swedish company based in Luxembourg. Its chief executive, Per Mikael Jensen, said: \"Latin America now accounts for over 25% our business\u2026 and is core to our strategy for growth.\"Source: Metro International", "tags": ["Media", "Metro", "Puerto Rico", "Free newspapers", "Media business", "Americas", "Brazil", "Mexico", "Colombia", "Chile", "E coli", "Ecuador", "Peru", "Guatemala"], "title": "Metro International launches paper in Puerto Rico"},{"date": "2012-11-02T12:04:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Confetti still litters the floor of the modest campaign headquarters and the victorious candidate is obviously exhausted, but for Maya Fern\u00e1ndez Allende the real hard work is just about to begin.Allende was just one year old on 11 September 1973 when a rightwing coup d'etat led to the death of her grandfather \u2013 Salvador Allende, the then Chilean president. The family fled to Cuba and for three decades the heir to one of Chile's most illustrious and controversial political fortunes was out of the limelight.All that changed last Sunday, when Fern\u00e1ndez Allende won the mayorship of \u00d1u\u00f1oa \u2013 a district of the capital, Santiago. But in addition to the pressures of office will come the pressure of assuming the Allende legacy.\"It makes me proud but [is also] a responsibility,\" she told the Guardian. \"My grandfather was a grand man, he was loyal with his people until the end \u2026 that is a principle, a value that is not often seen in politics.\"A week ago, Fern\u00e1ndez Allende's victory was not even discussed as a possibility, as the district had long been held by rightwing politicians. Her opponent Pedro Sabat had been re-elected three times by wide margins and held office for 16 years.But Chile has undergone a transformation over the past 18 months. Citizen groups fighting hydroelectric dams in Patagonia and demanding free university education have sprouted online and filled the streets with dozens of big marches \u2013 gathering up to 150,000 students. The upshot was the narrowest of wins for the challenger \u2014 by less than 100 votes out of more than 75,000 cast.Fern\u00e1ndez Allende put her victory down to a longstanding family tradition: hitting the streets. \"I walked the entire district twice,\" she said as a steady stream of giddy volunteers entered and left the one-storey, four-room office.\"When you enter a campaign, you enter to win, not to make a decent stand \u2026 I put all my heart into this and it was difficult, versus a mayor who had high voting support, but even before the final announcement I felt it was a victory, nobody had even come close to being that competitive with Sabat. We did this with a team, with a field operation.\"Students battled regularly with Sabat by occupying his office and shutting down numerous schools with strikes that lasted for as long as six months. Sabat faced strong condemnation for his assessment that a high school seized by female students had degenerated into \"a whorehouse\".Fern\u00e1ndez Allende said: \"That comment really shook people up. Even people who did not support the [striking] students thought that was too much.\"Apart from a whiteboard, the only office decoration was the official photograph of Salvador Allende wearing the Chilean presidential sash and his trademark thick black glasses. \"I would have loved to have known him in a more humane way, as a grandfather,\" said Fern\u00e1ndez Allende.\"I don't remember him, I was too small. But I am always entertained by the stories of his life that people tell me. Especially that despite his huge responsibilities, he had a great sense of humour. Always [there] with a wisecrack. That kept him going.\"Fern\u00e1ndez Allende, who lived in Cuba for nearly 20 years, added: \"The political bug bit me late in life.\" Even upon her return to Chile in 1992, she did little on the political front besides joining the Socialist party. But in 2008, she won her first election as a concejal, or neighbourhood representative, who works closely with the mayor.She also began to tap into the vein of goodwill still held by her grandfather and was elected to the Socialist party central committee in 2010. But it was the sudden outpouring of anger on the street that really galvanised her career \u2013 a sign that her grandfather's legacy of a humane socialist revolution lived on.\"The dictatorship did not allow you to express yourself, you might talk and then be disappeared, so people stopped talking,\" Fern\u00e1ndez Allende said. \"For 20 years nobody talked to anybody, you did not know who was a spy. There was lots of silence. People became more introverted. [Now] this generation has changed, it has come back to the street, to knock on the door, to bang the table.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chile welcomes Allende family back into political life"},{"date": "2012-10-16T17:37:44Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Britain's ambassador to Chile has been forced to apologise for what was meant to be a private Twitter jibe against Argentina and its defeat in the Falklands war.Jon Benjamin, a diplomat for more than 25 years, was so happy about getting a ticket to World Cup qualifying clash between the South American countries in Santiago on Tuesday that he went more public than he meant with a posting.Adopting a Chilean football taunt that goes \"Argentines, faggots, you lost the Malvinas because you are idiots\", Benjamin tweeted in Spanish, asking: \"Which islands did they take off who and for being what?\" But he forgot to make it private.Twitter criticism of the self-styled \"Hammers fan, Londoner at heart, Jewish atheist\" included threats of violence and antisemitic responses.Benjamin deleted his offending tweet and apologised, saying it had been a private tweet and that he had \"great affection for my Argentine friends and respect for their team\". The Argentine sports daily Ole said that was no excuse.The Foreign Office said: \"Our ambassador to Chile appears to have inadvertently caused some controversy in a tweet. He has deleted it.\"Benjamin was tweeting as usual on Tuesday, but on safer ground: retweeting the foreign secretary William Hague.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "UK news"], "title": "UK ambassador to Chile says sorry for Twitter jibe at Argentina"},{"date": "2012-11-20T19:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I almost didn't meet Camila Vallejo. She missed her flight from Chile, and by the time the allotted hour arrived, she was still 7,000 miles away in Santiago. To my surprise, I got a call the next day. Could we reschedule? Vallejo had charmed her way on to another plane, and was already scudding across the Atlantic. \"If she can shut down a city,\" mused the press officer for the National Union of Students, whose conference for global student leaders Vallejo was due to address, \"she can blag some air travel too.\"In 2011, that is what 24-year-old Vallejo sort of did. The then leader of Chile's most prominent student union, Vallejo \u2013 a would-be geographer \u2013 helped inspire a wave of protests that stopped the country in its tracks.Dozens of universities and hundreds of schools were occupied for months. Entire academic years had to be cancelled. Up to 200,000 students marched through Santiago every week, each a mini-carnival. The police response was often brutal: tear-gas and water cannon. There were even cases, Vallejo claims, \"of torture, of sexual abuse\". Police shot one boy dead. Vallejo (pronounced Va-yay-ho) was herself ambushed with tear-gas after a student meeting. \"My whole body was burning,\" she has said: \"it was brutal.\"These weren't like the student protests occurring simultaneously in Britain: they were more radical, far more popular, and demonstrably more effective. At its height in 2011, the movement's approval ratings topped 70%. It forced several concessions from the Chilean government, and ousted two ministers from office. And at its centre was Vallejo, \"a Botticelli beauty\" \u2013 in the words of the novelist Francisco Goldman \u2013 who at 23 became both a nose-ringed national treasure and a megastar of the international left.When she visited Mexico in June, crowds stood in the rain to see her. \"I\u00a0love you!\" some of them cried, handing her flowers. \"Camila Vallejo,\" wrote Alex Kapranos of Franz Ferdinand, one of her half-million Twitter followers: \"I\u00a0have a crush.\"It feels strange to see her in a more becalmed context. We meet on a grey day in a conference room at the University of East London, buried among the scrapyards and dual-carriageways of the Docklands. Outside, aeroplanes screech across the runway opposite every other minute. Inside, three-dozen jetlagged student leaders from across the globe \u2013 drained by two days of solid conferencing \u2013 slide in sleepily, some several minutes late for her speech. Vallejo calmly waits at the back. It's a strange place to find a revolutionary.What is she fighting for? Free education, first and foremost. According to the New York Times, Chile has proportionally the world's most expensive university education: degrees cost $3,400 a year, while Chile's average annual salary is only $8,500. More shockingly still, only 40% of teenagers get free high school classes. \"The choice people have is between having debt,\" Vallejo tells me later, \"or not having an education.\"But Vallejo's demands go further. Her generation is pushing for a wider reimagining of Chilean neoliberal society \u2013 a society that they argue has not changed enough since the days of Augusto Pinochet, and which has created one of the world's largest gaps between rich and poor.\"We realised the problem was bigger, the problem was structural,\" Vallejo tells me, or rather I'm told she tells me by her translator Rossana Leal, a Chilean who grew up in Scotland after her family fled the Pinochet regime. I don't speak Spanish, and Vallejo doesn't speak English, so our every utterance must pass through the stoic Leal. Everything gets confused, and I don't feel I'm meeting the Vallejo whose fluent and arresting presence you can find so easily on YouTube. We speak for 75 minutes, but cover what would have taken 15 in Spanish.Still, we give it a go. \"The debate became about the link between education and the bigger economic model in Chile,\" says Vallejo, explaining how the Chilean movement became so radical.The message, repeated in her speech, seems to jar with her surroundings. Her presentation is sandwiched by a talk from Lord Michael Bates, a Conservative who voted for fees, and another from Luis Juste, a banker turned corporate responsibility guru at Santander. So how does it feel to be squeezed between a banker and a Tory baron? And how much ground can Vallejo \u2013 a communist \u2013 really share with the centre-left NUS? Out of\u00a0pragmatism, the NUS favours refashioning fees, rather than culling them completely, and its leaders have not always been particularly supportive of creative protest.\"It makes it much more relevant to be here,\" says Vallejo, who gives a wry smile once Leal's translation filters through. \"It's important not to only talk to people who are convinced. We want to enable a continuous debate about what's happening with education.\"The Chilean movement only became so radical through a similarly lengthy debate, she says. \"2011 was the product of 10 years of debate,\" adds Paul Floor Pilquil, Vallejo's colleague at the University of Chile student union (Fech). A decade ago, he says, Chile's main student bodies were as bogged down in the smaller issues as they are now in Britain. \"But then we started to connect all the specific problems.\"Pilquil's intervention is significant not just for what he's saying, but that he's saying it at all. The interview was supposed to be a one-on-one with Vallejo, but \u2013 for diplomatic reasons \u2013 Pilquil has to be here too. Why? Because Vallejo is no longer the Fech president. She was ousted last winter by a law student, Gabriel Boric \u2013 and is now only his deputy. As such, she can't be seen to hog the limelight.Nine months on, Vallejo laughs off the loss. It was almost a blessing, she claims: \"The role of the president is very administrative. They have to see how the money is spent.\"The presidency had been draining in other ways. Vallejo received death threats that were serious enough for her parents \u2013 one-time opponents of Pinochet who now run an air-conditioning business \u2013 to persuade her to move home for her own safety. \"Kill the bitch,\" a later-sacked government official tweeted, in a riff on a quote from Pinochet.Vallejo lost the presidency in part because she was seen to be too prepared to engage with institutional hierarchies. She's a communist, for a start, she wants to form partnerships with centre-left parties, and she hasn't ruled out running for parliament.\"We're talking about the now,\" says Vallejo. \"We're talking about taking our proposals to the elections next year.\"It's a position that puts her at odds not just with other Chilean students, but with leftwing ideas on the rise in the rest of the world too. The Occupy movement \u2013 with which the Chilean student occupations are sometimes lumped \u2013 is seen as mainly anti-authoritarian; it rejects parliamentary democracy, and there's also clear water between it and the old-school workers' left. By contrast, Vallejo can see the logic in running for office.Why? It's cultural, says Vallejo. Salvador Allende, the Marxist president deposed by Pinochet's 1973 coup, \"is one of the most important political figures I admire\". Allende reached the presidency through democratic elections, which in Vallejo's mind shows how the electoral system can be used for hard-left ends.Some of her contemporaries disagree, but Vallejo doesn't necessarily see this as a bad thing: \"I'm not going to deny we don't have different political views, [and] we don't know if this debate is ever going to find a solution,\" says Vallejo, as another jet screeches to a halt at the nearby City airport. \"But we know the debate itself\u00a0is important.\"It's an oddly low-key statement to end on, but\u00a0then this has been an odd morning: one grey day in the Docklands, communist Camila Vallejo has blagged a flight halfway round the world to share a\u00a0platform with Conservative Michael Bates.", "tags": ["Chile", "Protest", "Students", "Student politics", "Education", "World news", "Economic policy", "Politics", "Americas"], "title": "Chilean rebel Camila Vallejo: 'The problem is bigger \u2013 it's structural'"},{"date": "2012-12-04T12:05:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The politicisation of science is proving increasingly harmful to the advance of science. This phenomenon appears in two forms: firstly, when governments try to force the objectives of scientific research or the way that research is conducted; secondly, in the governance of research, in other words when the relationships between research councils and higher education institutions are set up without thought for evidence and sometimes in defiance of scientific consensus (providing an example of 'politics based evidence' instead of 'evidence-based policy' as Mark Henderson puts it in 'The Geek Manifesto').In the last few years, this politicisation has emerged in many countries facing the pressures of economic crisis, commonly when the centre of science policy making has been relocated to ministries of economy, business or industry \u2013 or related government departments. It often goes hand in hand with a downgrading of the status of science policy, no longer coming from independent entities but depending solely on the government agenda.What have been the implications of these actions and how has the scientific community reacted? In the UK, Canada and Spain, scientists have gone out to the streets and performed rallies against cuts to science and technology funding or mocking funerals to represent the \"death\" of science. In some instances this has resulted in governments giving funds back towards science and evidence-based policy making.Countries with an effective institutional framework for science usually maintain a linear model for the development of their science policy. Autonomous councils provide advice to the government and propose a national plan for science and technology. Ministries for science, or in some cases, education and research, have the task of implementing science and technology policy. Sector agencies inside those ministries are responsible for assigning grants and fellowships, where the excellence of the research, instead of the 'applicability', is the main criteria for economic support.Despite this global trend, the Chilean government has embarked in a controversial reform and scientists \u2013 as in those countries mentioned above \u2013 are taking a stand. The government has announced that it will relocate the National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT) from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Economy. Created in 1968 under the administration of the Ministry of Education, CONICYT is the main agency responsible for basic and applied research funding, as well as support provided for graduate and postgraduate researcher development. It is also in charge of science communication and outreach activities.Today, most research and development if produced inside the higher education system in Chile, with graduate programmes providing the bulk of 'human capital' performing such tasks. During the same period, there has been a persistent lack of industrial R&D and a low private investment on research and innovation and this has been acknowledged as one of the greatest limitations on Chile's wider development.The country's academic and scientific community has delivered a wide range of proposals to tackle these issues, including the need for new institutional and independent governance for science and an evolution towards a knowledge-based economy. Yet the Chilean government believes that transferring CONICYT to the Ministry of Economy will close this gap between universities and industries.As expected, the chancellors from the main Chilean universities opposed this change, arguing that this measure lacked technical foundation. The scientific community also rejected the idea, along with several National Awards of Science and members of parliament. The Chilean Academy of Sciences called for independent governance, again suggesting a dedicated ministry of research and development.At the More Science for Chile campaign, we published a report to show models of research governance in countries with academy-industry collaboration. It's also worth noting that only some economics boards gave their approval to suggested change \u2014 and only then through word of mouth than evidence-based arguments.Surprisingly, the Chilean government has rejected the creation of a dedicated research ministry (a longstanding request from the Chilean scientific community), while supporting the creation of dedicated ministries for other areas. Curiously, the arguments for the creation of such ministries are the same as those presented by the scientific community . But we remain unheard.The governance of research has become increasingly important worldwide. Collaboration between countries, the exchange of scientists and graduate students, and economic cooperation, are some of the areas that require strong governance and long-term science policy. But when evidence-based arguments are not provided, or when the main argument is more an expectation or hope based on a political ideology, the politicisation of science grows. Global efforts are needed to create an international environment of cooperation and shared knowledge and resources, based on common guidelines and principles, to avoid this harmful practice.Pablo Astudillo Besnier is part of the More Science for Chile coordination team. He is an engineer in molecular biotechnology at the University of Chile, and a PhD student in biological sciences at the Catholic University of Chile This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up for free to become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Policy", "Academics", "Research", "Research", "Higher education", "Education", "Science"], "title": "Politics of science: why governance of research must stay independent"},{"date": "2012-10-02T08:49:36Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Metro International is expanding its push into Latin America by launching a version of its free daily in Puerto Rico's capital, San Juan. Preview copies will be available today.Metro is already the largest title across Latin America, with nearly 3m readers in Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Peru, Guatemala and Colombia.The Puerto Rico launch is a joint venture with PR Media Partners - a consortium of local and international investors - in which Metro Int holds 70% of the shares.Metro International is a Swedish company based in Luxembourg. Its chief executive, Per Mikael Jensen, said: \"Latin America now accounts for over 25% our business\u2026 and is core to our strategy for growth.\"Source: Metro International", "tags": ["Media", "Metro", "Puerto Rico", "Free newspapers", "Media business", "Americas", "Brazil", "Mexico", "Colombia", "Chile", "E coli", "Ecuador", "Peru", "Guatemala"], "title": "Metro International launches paper in Puerto Rico"},{"date": "2012-11-13T23:27:31Z", "country": "chile", "content": "After a heated recount of last month's mayoral election results in Chile, an electoral tribunal has determined that Maya Fern\u00e1ndez Allende, the granddaughter of former president Salvador Allende, did not win the seat for the district of \u00d1u\u00f1oa as originally announced.The reversal, which has reignited decades-old enmities, came with an announcement on Tuesday that the incumbent mayor, Pedro Sabat, was the winner by the thinnest of margins \u2013 30 votes out of an estimated 68,000 cast in the middle-class neighbourhood of Santiago.In the original vote count, Fern\u00e1ndez Allende was credited with a 20-vote victory that appeared to have ended Sabat's 16 years in the post.Leaders of the Socialist party, of which Fern\u00e1ndez Allende is an official candidate, have stated they will appeal to a higher electoral body over the ruling, but few political observers in Chile believe there will be any further change in the election results.Controversy erupted within days of \u00d1u\u00f1oa's election results as the slim margin of Fern\u00e1ndez Allende's victory did not include two polling centres with minor discrepancies between the number of voters who showed up and the number of actual votes cast.Under Chilean election law a discrepancy, suggestive of either deliberate voter manipulation or bureaucratic incompetence, means the entire bloc of votes is invalidated. Lawyers for the rightwing National Renovation party appealed against that decision and the government electoral body authorised a recount.This year Chile is introducing a radical change in its voting system. Previously only registered voters could cast a ballot and they were required to do so, at times with threats of heavy fines.For the first time, in the October 2012 mayoral elections, all adults aged 18 and over were automatically registered. Equally significant, voting became voluntary.From the moment last month's elections were launched, chaos was evident on multiple fronts. Hundreds of voting supervisors \u2013 chosen randomly from computer generated lists \u2013 were paid $30, given a bag lunch and basically left to their own to figure out how to sort out the electoral process.The votes are marked by graphite pencils, which are far from indelible. And the lists of eligible voters were so scrambled that one list included former Chilean president Salvador Allende who shot himself as Pinochet troops invaded the Presidential Palace on 11 September 1973.Over the ensuing fortnight, comments on Facebook and Twitter had pro-Fern\u00e1ndez-Allende and pro-right wing forces at each other's throats. The vitriol and hatred of the comments leave little doubt that, even after 40 years, the wounds of the Pinochet and Allende years remain painful and have yet to heal.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chilean electoral tribunal overturns Fern\u00e1ndez Allende's mayoral victory"},{"date": "2012-11-02T12:04:08Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Confetti still litters the floor of the modest campaign headquarters and the victorious candidate is obviously exhausted, but for Maya Fern\u00e1ndez Allende the real hard work is just about to begin.Allende was just one year old on 11 September 1973 when a rightwing coup d'etat led to the death of her grandfather \u2013 Salvador Allende, the then Chilean president. The family fled to Cuba and for three decades the heir to one of Chile's most illustrious and controversial political fortunes was out of the limelight.All that changed last Sunday, when Fern\u00e1ndez Allende won the mayorship of \u00d1u\u00f1oa \u2013 a district of the capital, Santiago. But in addition to the pressures of office will come the pressure of assuming the Allende legacy.\"It makes me proud but [is also] a responsibility,\" she told the Guardian. \"My grandfather was a grand man, he was loyal with his people until the end \u2026 that is a principle, a value that is not often seen in politics.\"A week ago, Fern\u00e1ndez Allende's victory was not even discussed as a possibility, as the district had long been held by rightwing politicians. Her opponent Pedro Sabat had been re-elected three times by wide margins and held office for 16 years.But Chile has undergone a transformation over the past 18 months. Citizen groups fighting hydroelectric dams in Patagonia and demanding free university education have sprouted online and filled the streets with dozens of big marches \u2013 gathering up to 150,000 students. The upshot was the narrowest of wins for the challenger \u2014 by less than 100 votes out of more than 75,000 cast.Fern\u00e1ndez Allende put her victory down to a longstanding family tradition: hitting the streets. \"I walked the entire district twice,\" she said as a steady stream of giddy volunteers entered and left the one-storey, four-room office.\"When you enter a campaign, you enter to win, not to make a decent stand \u2026 I put all my heart into this and it was difficult, versus a mayor who had high voting support, but even before the final announcement I felt it was a victory, nobody had even come close to being that competitive with Sabat. We did this with a team, with a field operation.\"Students battled regularly with Sabat by occupying his office and shutting down numerous schools with strikes that lasted for as long as six months. Sabat faced strong condemnation for his assessment that a high school seized by female students had degenerated into \"a whorehouse\".Fern\u00e1ndez Allende said: \"That comment really shook people up. Even people who did not support the [striking] students thought that was too much.\"Apart from a whiteboard, the only office decoration was the official photograph of Salvador Allende wearing the Chilean presidential sash and his trademark thick black glasses. \"I would have loved to have known him in a more humane way, as a grandfather,\" said Fern\u00e1ndez Allende.\"I don't remember him, I was too small. But I am always entertained by the stories of his life that people tell me. Especially that despite his huge responsibilities, he had a great sense of humour. Always [there] with a wisecrack. That kept him going.\"Fern\u00e1ndez Allende, who lived in Cuba for nearly 20 years, added: \"The political bug bit me late in life.\" Even upon her return to Chile in 1992, she did little on the political front besides joining the Socialist party. But in 2008, she won her first election as a concejal, or neighbourhood representative, who works closely with the mayor.She also began to tap into the vein of goodwill still held by her grandfather and was elected to the Socialist party central committee in 2010. But it was the sudden outpouring of anger on the street that really galvanised her career \u2013 a sign that her grandfather's legacy of a humane socialist revolution lived on.\"The dictatorship did not allow you to express yourself, you might talk and then be disappeared, so people stopped talking,\" Fern\u00e1ndez Allende said. \"For 20 years nobody talked to anybody, you did not know who was a spy. There was lots of silence. People became more introverted. [Now] this generation has changed, it has come back to the street, to knock on the door, to bang the table.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chile welcomes Allende family back into political life"},{"date": "2012-10-16T17:37:44Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Britain's ambassador to Chile has been forced to apologise for what was meant to be a private Twitter jibe against Argentina and its defeat in the Falklands war.Jon Benjamin, a diplomat for more than 25 years, was so happy about getting a ticket to World Cup qualifying clash between the South American countries in Santiago on Tuesday that he went more public than he meant with a posting.Adopting a Chilean football taunt that goes \"Argentines, faggots, you lost the Malvinas because you are idiots\", Benjamin tweeted in Spanish, asking: \"Which islands did they take off who and for being what?\" But he forgot to make it private.Twitter criticism of the self-styled \"Hammers fan, Londoner at heart, Jewish atheist\" included threats of violence and antisemitic responses.Benjamin deleted his offending tweet and apologised, saying it had been a private tweet and that he had \"great affection for my Argentine friends and respect for their team\". The Argentine sports daily Ole said that was no excuse.The Foreign Office said: \"Our ambassador to Chile appears to have inadvertently caused some controversy in a tweet. He has deleted it.\"Benjamin was tweeting as usual on Tuesday, but on safer ground: retweeting the foreign secretary William Hague.", "tags": ["Falkland Islands", "Foreign policy", "Politics", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Argentina", "UK news"], "title": "UK ambassador to Chile says sorry for Twitter jibe at Argentina"},{"date": "2012-11-20T19:00:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I almost didn't meet Camila Vallejo. She missed her flight from Chile, and by the time the allotted hour arrived, she was still 7,000 miles away in Santiago. To my surprise, I got a call the next day. Could we reschedule? Vallejo had charmed her way on to another plane, and was already scudding across the Atlantic. \"If she can shut down a city,\" mused the press officer for the National Union of Students, whose conference for global student leaders Vallejo was due to address, \"she can blag some air travel too.\"In 2011, that is what 24-year-old Vallejo sort of did. The then leader of Chile's most prominent student union, Vallejo \u2013 a would-be geographer \u2013 helped inspire a wave of protests that stopped the country in its tracks.Dozens of universities and hundreds of schools were occupied for months. Entire academic years had to be cancelled. Up to 200,000 students marched through Santiago every week, each a mini-carnival. The police response was often brutal: tear-gas and water cannon. There were even cases, Vallejo claims, \"of torture, of sexual abuse\". Police shot one boy dead. Vallejo (pronounced Va-yay-ho) was herself ambushed with tear-gas after a student meeting. \"My whole body was burning,\" she has said: \"it was brutal.\"These weren't like the student protests occurring simultaneously in Britain: they were more radical, far more popular, and demonstrably more effective. At its height in 2011, the movement's approval ratings topped 70%. It forced several concessions from the Chilean government, and ousted two ministers from office. And at its centre was Vallejo, \"a Botticelli beauty\" \u2013 in the words of the novelist Francisco Goldman \u2013 who at 23 became both a nose-ringed national treasure and a megastar of the international left.When she visited Mexico in June, crowds stood in the rain to see her. \"I\u00a0love you!\" some of them cried, handing her flowers. \"Camila Vallejo,\" wrote Alex Kapranos of Franz Ferdinand, one of her half-million Twitter followers: \"I\u00a0have a crush.\"It feels strange to see her in a more becalmed context. We meet on a grey day in a conference room at the University of East London, buried among the scrapyards and dual-carriageways of the Docklands. Outside, aeroplanes screech across the runway opposite every other minute. Inside, three-dozen jetlagged student leaders from across the globe \u2013 drained by two days of solid conferencing \u2013 slide in sleepily, some several minutes late for her speech. Vallejo calmly waits at the back. It's a strange place to find a revolutionary.What is she fighting for? Free education, first and foremost. According to the New York Times, Chile has proportionally the world's most expensive university education: degrees cost $3,400 a year, while Chile's average annual salary is only $8,500. More shockingly still, only 40% of teenagers get free high school classes. \"The choice people have is between having debt,\" Vallejo tells me later, \"or not having an education.\"But Vallejo's demands go further. Her generation is pushing for a wider reimagining of Chilean neoliberal society \u2013 a society that they argue has not changed enough since the days of Augusto Pinochet, and which has created one of the world's largest gaps between rich and poor.\"We realised the problem was bigger, the problem was structural,\" Vallejo tells me, or rather I'm told she tells me by her translator Rossana Leal, a Chilean who grew up in Scotland after her family fled the Pinochet regime. I don't speak Spanish, and Vallejo doesn't speak English, so our every utterance must pass through the stoic Leal. Everything gets confused, and I don't feel I'm meeting the Vallejo whose fluent and arresting presence you can find so easily on YouTube. We speak for 75 minutes, but cover what would have taken 15 in Spanish.Still, we give it a go. \"The debate became about the link between education and the bigger economic model in Chile,\" says Vallejo, explaining how the Chilean movement became so radical.The message, repeated in her speech, seems to jar with her surroundings. Her presentation is sandwiched by a talk from Lord Michael Bates, a Conservative who voted for fees, and another from Luis Juste, a banker turned corporate responsibility guru at Santander. So how does it feel to be squeezed between a banker and a Tory baron? And how much ground can Vallejo \u2013 a communist \u2013 really share with the centre-left NUS? Out of\u00a0pragmatism, the NUS favours refashioning fees, rather than culling them completely, and its leaders have not always been particularly supportive of creative protest.\"It makes it much more relevant to be here,\" says Vallejo, who gives a wry smile once Leal's translation filters through. \"It's important not to only talk to people who are convinced. We want to enable a continuous debate about what's happening with education.\"The Chilean movement only became so radical through a similarly lengthy debate, she says. \"2011 was the product of 10 years of debate,\" adds Paul Floor Pilquil, Vallejo's colleague at the University of Chile student union (Fech). A decade ago, he says, Chile's main student bodies were as bogged down in the smaller issues as they are now in Britain. \"But then we started to connect all the specific problems.\"Pilquil's intervention is significant not just for what he's saying, but that he's saying it at all. The interview was supposed to be a one-on-one with Vallejo, but \u2013 for diplomatic reasons \u2013 Pilquil has to be here too. Why? Because Vallejo is no longer the Fech president. She was ousted last winter by a law student, Gabriel Boric \u2013 and is now only his deputy. As such, she can't be seen to hog the limelight.Nine months on, Vallejo laughs off the loss. It was almost a blessing, she claims: \"The role of the president is very administrative. They have to see how the money is spent.\"The presidency had been draining in other ways. Vallejo received death threats that were serious enough for her parents \u2013 one-time opponents of Pinochet who now run an air-conditioning business \u2013 to persuade her to move home for her own safety. \"Kill the bitch,\" a later-sacked government official tweeted, in a riff on a quote from Pinochet.Vallejo lost the presidency in part because she was seen to be too prepared to engage with institutional hierarchies. She's a communist, for a start, she wants to form partnerships with centre-left parties, and she hasn't ruled out running for parliament.\"We're talking about the now,\" says Vallejo. \"We're talking about taking our proposals to the elections next year.\"It's a position that puts her at odds not just with other Chilean students, but with leftwing ideas on the rise in the rest of the world too. The Occupy movement \u2013 with which the Chilean student occupations are sometimes lumped \u2013 is seen as mainly anti-authoritarian; it rejects parliamentary democracy, and there's also clear water between it and the old-school workers' left. By contrast, Vallejo can see the logic in running for office.Why? It's cultural, says Vallejo. Salvador Allende, the Marxist president deposed by Pinochet's 1973 coup, \"is one of the most important political figures I admire\". Allende reached the presidency through democratic elections, which in Vallejo's mind shows how the electoral system can be used for hard-left ends.Some of her contemporaries disagree, but Vallejo doesn't necessarily see this as a bad thing: \"I'm not going to deny we don't have different political views, [and] we don't know if this debate is ever going to find a solution,\" says Vallejo, as another jet screeches to a halt at the nearby City airport. \"But we know the debate itself\u00a0is important.\"It's an oddly low-key statement to end on, but\u00a0then this has been an odd morning: one grey day in the Docklands, communist Camila Vallejo has blagged a flight halfway round the world to share a\u00a0platform with Conservative Michael Bates.", "tags": ["Chile", "Protest", "Students", "Student politics", "Education", "World news", "Economic policy", "Politics", "Americas"], "title": "Chilean rebel Camila Vallejo: 'The problem is bigger \u2013 it's structural'"},{"date": "2012-12-04T12:05:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The politicisation of science is proving increasingly harmful to the advance of science. This phenomenon appears in two forms: firstly, when governments try to force the objectives of scientific research or the way that research is conducted; secondly, in the governance of research, in other words when the relationships between research councils and higher education institutions are set up without thought for evidence and sometimes in defiance of scientific consensus (providing an example of 'politics based evidence' instead of 'evidence-based policy' as Mark Henderson puts it in 'The Geek Manifesto').In the last few years, this politicisation has emerged in many countries facing the pressures of economic crisis, commonly when the centre of science policy making has been relocated to ministries of economy, business or industry \u2013 or related government departments. It often goes hand in hand with a downgrading of the status of science policy, no longer coming from independent entities but depending solely on the government agenda.What have been the implications of these actions and how has the scientific community reacted? In the UK, Canada and Spain, scientists have gone out to the streets and performed rallies against cuts to science and technology funding or mocking funerals to represent the \"death\" of science. In some instances this has resulted in governments giving funds back towards science and evidence-based policy making.Countries with an effective institutional framework for science usually maintain a linear model for the development of their science policy. Autonomous councils provide advice to the government and propose a national plan for science and technology. Ministries for science, or in some cases, education and research, have the task of implementing science and technology policy. Sector agencies inside those ministries are responsible for assigning grants and fellowships, where the excellence of the research, instead of the 'applicability', is the main criteria for economic support.Despite this global trend, the Chilean government has embarked in a controversial reform and scientists \u2013 as in those countries mentioned above \u2013 are taking a stand. The government has announced that it will relocate the National Commission for Scientific and Technological Research (CONICYT) from the Ministry of Education to the Ministry of Economy. Created in 1968 under the administration of the Ministry of Education, CONICYT is the main agency responsible for basic and applied research funding, as well as support provided for graduate and postgraduate researcher development. It is also in charge of science communication and outreach activities.Today, most research and development if produced inside the higher education system in Chile, with graduate programmes providing the bulk of 'human capital' performing such tasks. During the same period, there has been a persistent lack of industrial R&D and a low private investment on research and innovation and this has been acknowledged as one of the greatest limitations on Chile's wider development.The country's academic and scientific community has delivered a wide range of proposals to tackle these issues, including the need for new institutional and independent governance for science and an evolution towards a knowledge-based economy. Yet the Chilean government believes that transferring CONICYT to the Ministry of Economy will close this gap between universities and industries.As expected, the chancellors from the main Chilean universities opposed this change, arguing that this measure lacked technical foundation. The scientific community also rejected the idea, along with several National Awards of Science and members of parliament. The Chilean Academy of Sciences called for independent governance, again suggesting a dedicated ministry of research and development.At the More Science for Chile campaign, we published a report to show models of research governance in countries with academy-industry collaboration. It's also worth noting that only some economics boards gave their approval to suggested change \u2014 and only then through word of mouth than evidence-based arguments.Surprisingly, the Chilean government has rejected the creation of a dedicated research ministry (a longstanding request from the Chilean scientific community), while supporting the creation of dedicated ministries for other areas. Curiously, the arguments for the creation of such ministries are the same as those presented by the scientific community . But we remain unheard.The governance of research has become increasingly important worldwide. Collaboration between countries, the exchange of scientists and graduate students, and economic cooperation, are some of the areas that require strong governance and long-term science policy. But when evidence-based arguments are not provided, or when the main argument is more an expectation or hope based on a political ideology, the politicisation of science grows. Global efforts are needed to create an international environment of cooperation and shared knowledge and resources, based on common guidelines and principles, to avoid this harmful practice.Pablo Astudillo Besnier is part of the More Science for Chile coordination team. He is an engineer in molecular biotechnology at the University of Chile, and a PhD student in biological sciences at the Catholic University of Chile This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, sign up for free to become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Policy", "Academics", "Research", "Research", "Higher education", "Education", "Science"], "title": "Politics of science: why governance of research must stay independent"},{"date": "2012-10-02T08:49:36Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Metro International is expanding its push into Latin America by launching a version of its free daily in Puerto Rico's capital, San Juan. Preview copies will be available today.Metro is already the largest title across Latin America, with nearly 3m readers in Mexico, Brazil, Chile, Ecuador, Peru, Guatemala and Colombia.The Puerto Rico launch is a joint venture with PR Media Partners - a consortium of local and international investors - in which Metro Int holds 70% of the shares.Metro International is a Swedish company based in Luxembourg. Its chief executive, Per Mikael Jensen, said: \"Latin America now accounts for over 25% our business\u2026 and is core to our strategy for growth.\"Source: Metro International", "tags": ["Media", "Metro", "Puerto Rico", "Free newspapers", "Media business", "Americas", "Brazil", "Mexico", "Colombia", "Chile", "E coli", "Ecuador", "Peru", "Guatemala"], "title": "Metro International launches paper in Puerto Rico"},{"date": "2012-11-13T23:27:31Z", "country": "chile", "content": "After a heated recount of last month's mayoral election results in Chile, an electoral tribunal has determined that Maya Fern\u00e1ndez Allende, the granddaughter of former president Salvador Allende, did not win the seat for the district of \u00d1u\u00f1oa as originally announced.The reversal, which has reignited decades-old enmities, came with an announcement on Tuesday that the incumbent mayor, Pedro Sabat, was the winner by the thinnest of margins \u2013 30 votes out of an estimated 68,000 cast in the middle-class neighbourhood of Santiago.In the original vote count, Fern\u00e1ndez Allende was credited with a 20-vote victory that appeared to have ended Sabat's 16 years in the post.Leaders of the Socialist party, of which Fern\u00e1ndez Allende is an official candidate, have stated they will appeal to a higher electoral body over the ruling, but few political observers in Chile believe there will be any further change in the election results.Controversy erupted within days of \u00d1u\u00f1oa's election results as the slim margin of Fern\u00e1ndez Allende's victory did not include two polling centres with minor discrepancies between the number of voters who showed up and the number of actual votes cast.Under Chilean election law a discrepancy, suggestive of either deliberate voter manipulation or bureaucratic incompetence, means the entire bloc of votes is invalidated. Lawyers for the rightwing National Renovation party appealed against that decision and the government electoral body authorised a recount.This year Chile is introducing a radical change in its voting system. Previously only registered voters could cast a ballot and they were required to do so, at times with threats of heavy fines.For the first time, in the October 2012 mayoral elections, all adults aged 18 and over were automatically registered. Equally significant, voting became voluntary.From the moment last month's elections were launched, chaos was evident on multiple fronts. Hundreds of voting supervisors \u2013 chosen randomly from computer generated lists \u2013 were paid $30, given a bag lunch and basically left to their own to figure out how to sort out the electoral process.The votes are marked by graphite pencils, which are far from indelible. And the lists of eligible voters were so scrambled that one list included former Chilean president Salvador Allende who shot himself as Pinochet troops invaded the Presidential Palace on 11 September 1973.Over the ensuing fortnight, comments on Facebook and Twitter had pro-Fern\u00e1ndez-Allende and pro-right wing forces at each other's throats. The vitriol and hatred of the comments leave little doubt that, even after 40 years, the wounds of the Pinochet and Allende years remain painful and have yet to heal.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chilean electoral tribunal overturns Fern\u00e1ndez Allende's mayoral victory"},{"date": "2012-12-28T00:01:05Z", "country": "chile", "content": "One of Britain's most senior law officers at the time of the Falklands conflict, the attorney general, Sir Michael Havers, urged the prime minister to steal deadly French Exocet missiles to stop them ending up in the hands of the enemy.The ingenious scheme is revealed in previously secret documents released to the National Archives on Friday which show how the UK government attempted to subvert South American solidarity with Argentina.The Chilean junta offered secret help to British forces during the Falklands conflict, the documents disclose, including the use of remote airfields. The clandestine relationship involved arms sales to General Augusto Pinochet's regime while agonising over its human rights record.But it was the French-manufactured Exocet anti-ship weapons, used by the Argentinian air force against the British relief convoy as it steamed into the south Atlantic, that most exposed the weakness of the Royal Navy's anti-aircraft defences. HMS Sheffield and the SS Atlantic Conveyor were among those sunk.On 1 June 1982, the attorney general sent a handwritten note to Margaret Thatcher, the prime minister, outlining his plan to hijack missiles being transported through South America. It was dreamt up by a friend, Charles Hughesdon, who ran an air freight company.\"The risk of resupply to the Argentines of further air-to-sea missiles justified consideration of all options to prevent this \u2013 even the most way-out, which may be thought to be more appropriate to a James Bond movie,\" Havers told Thatcher.The idea was to tender for the cargo contract \"where the exporting country will not want to risk its own aircraft for publicity reasons\". He explained: \"The loadmaster has total control over the flight and therefore could redirect the aircraft, in transit, to (for example) Bermuda. This will cost money (this is an expensive dirty business) but would, in my view, be cheap at the price.\"This seems to me although highly unlikely, an option we should keep open. It is probably unnecessary to add that Charles Hughesdon's loyalty and integrity is beyond question.\"Israel and Israeli companies, a separate Foreign Office briefing warned, \"\u2026 have made offers or are involved in negotiations on the supply of weapons [to Argentina] \u2026 despite assurances\" that they would not make any new deals.It was the French who held the largest stocks of the deadly weapons. Thatcher despatched an emotional secret appeal to President Fran\u00e7ois Mitterrand, pleading with him to delay the export of more French Exocet missiles to South America.In her telegram on 30 May 1982, she said cabinet colleagues were \"all dismayed by the prospect of France supplying these missiles to Peru when, as you yourself agreed, there can be no doubt that Peru will pass them on to Argentina\".She added: \"It would have a disastrous effect on the alliance as a whole. This is the last thing that either of us would wish. I hope therefore that for the time being you will be able to find some way of keeping those missiles in France.\"Publicly, Chile adopted a position of \"strict neutrality\", a policy dictated by its need to defer to Latin American solidarity with Argentina and its own dispute with Argentina over the Beagle Channel.For a short but important time after the invasion of the Falklands, Chile secretly allowed Britain to base a Nimrod reconnaissance aircraft at an airfield on San Felix, a small island off the Chilean coast. It also agreed to delay the handover of a British tanker, RFA Tidepool, which Britain had recently sold to Chile.And the Chilean junta kept quiet when a UK special forces Sea King helicopter landed on Chilean soil after a failed attempt to blow up Argentinian Super Etendard bombers based at the southern Argentinian airbase of Rio Grande.The Chilean armed forces had a long and close relationship with Britain and military sales reflected this. Early in 1982, just before the invasion, the Ministry of Defence noted that providing Chile with pilot and weapons training for the Hunter fighter/bomber would \"create a favourable climate for the sale of further secondhand Hunters\".It added: \"None of the courses can be said to be training the Chileans in the techniques of repression, except in so far as the tactical weapons course involves training in low-level ground attack.\"A Foreign Office official noted in the margin of the document: \"Weren't Hunters uses to attack Allende's Palace\" \u2013 a reference to the key role played by Hunter aircaft in the 1973 coup d'etat which overthrew the socialist president.Another official noted that the FCO minister Richard Luce suggested \"we should try to prevent the press from getting wind of such training\". In July 1982, after the Falklands war was over, the FCO undertook a review of Anglo-Chilean relations, the papers show. Robin Fearn, a senior official, noted: \"We need to decide what price we are prepared to pay for long-term Chilean co-operation over the Falklands.\"After a passage redacted by Whitehall censors, Fearn's memo continued: \"The main difficulty for us will be now to adjust our human rights policy in a way which is sufficient for the Chileans \u2026 without exposing ourselves to criticism from the domestic lobby that we are subordinating human rights concerns to political and commercial expediency.\"However, another senior FCO official, John Ure, warned that Britain was in danger \" with some justification of adopting a cynical policy\". He added: \"The fact is that Chile is still not free of human rights abuses and has some particularly bad skeletons in the cupboard.\"The files refer to detentions without trial and torture, including that of the British doctor Sheila Cassidy and the British businessman William Beausire, by the DINA, Pinochet's secret police.An FCO official commented later in the year: \"We cannot afford to restrict our trade to those countries of whose internal repression we disapprove.\"In 1998, Pinochet was arrested in Britain, were he was undergoing medical treatment, for human rights abuses. He was freed by Jack Straw, the home secretary, on the grounds that medical experts said he was unfit to stand trial.Thatcher welcomed his release at the end of what she called a \"political vendetta\" which had \"tarnished\" the reputation of British justice.In 2004, Chilean judge Juan Guzm\u00e1n Tapia ruled that Pinochet was medically fit to stand trial and placed him under house arrest. The former dictator died in 2006.", "tags": ["National Archives", "Margaret Thatcher", "Falkland Islands", "Americas", "UK news", "Politics", "Politics past"], "title": "Thatcher urged to steal French-made Exocet missiles during Falklands war"},{"date": "2013-01-25T13:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Atacama desert, high in northern Chile, provides the Earth's best vantage point for watching the stars. Clear and dry for 300 days of the year, it's home to 42% of the world's space telescopes; it's humanity's most ambitious base camp for looking out at the final frontier. At the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA) \u2013 66 radio antennas near the spine of the Andes \u2013 astronomers hope to detect galaxies that could house life-supporting, water-bearing planets, while the Very Large Telescope (VLT) observes outer space with an interferometer that is four billion times more powerful than the naked eye.Stargazing is something of a way of life in Chile, so it shouldn't be so surprising that the country's capital, Santiago, is currently home to a thriving psychedelic rock scene. This month, the Sacred Bones label (which has already given the world Zola Jesus and Moon Duo) is putting out formidable albums from two of the brightest lights in the city's star system. F\u00f6llakzoid's five-track collection II deals in nefarious, irresistible, krautrocky darkwave, while Noctuary, from 60s-loving psych warriors the Holydrug Couple, sounds like an even more blissed-out Tame Impala. Together with enchanting power trio La Hell Gang and the ritualistic Watch Out! (all labelmates on the fabulously named Blow Your Mind records), the Santiago scene is fast catching the attention of plugged-in stoners worldwide.Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewYou could say that there's something in the water, but Chile's propensity for psychedelic sounds has more to do with what's written in the stars. As F\u00f6llakzoid guitarist and experimental film-maker Domingo Garc\u00eda-Huidobro explains, \"We find, in the cosmos, a source of inspiration where everyone, no matter where he's from, can be separated from his body. He can separate physically within the music.\" Domingo believes that South America exists in the pull of a gravitational field that allows communication with other places, times and dimensions. So far, so far-out, but to him, it's completely obvious. As 18-year-olds, F\u00f6llakzoid and his friends found themselves jamming out dirges close in length and depth to the work of Neu! and the other Krautrock godheads, without ever having heard those bands. This, they figured, could be no coincidence. \"We developed the theory that those guys, in different times, must have got the same vibes we are receiving. They wanted the sound to be bigger, they wanted to lift people from their environment.\"Furthermore, he reckons those telescopes are acting as some kind of conduit across the planes, helping to guide the destiny of him, his bandmates and everyone on the Chilean psych scene. \"Being in Chile makes you closer to the stars. A lot of the things we decide in our lives, we leave to general karma. And, yeah, space has a lot to do with it.\"", "tags": ["Psychedelia", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Chile, the home of cosmic rock"},{"date": "2013-01-25T13:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Atacama desert, high in northern Chile, provides the Earth's best vantage point for watching the stars. Clear and dry for 300 days of the year, it's home to 42% of the world's space telescopes; it's humanity's most ambitious base camp for looking out at the final frontier. At the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA) \u2013 66 radio antennas near the spine of the Andes \u2013 astronomers hope to detect galaxies that could house life-supporting, water-bearing planets, while the Very Large Telescope (VLT) observes outer space with an interferometer that is four billion times more powerful than the naked eye.Stargazing is something of a way of life in Chile, so it shouldn't be so surprising that the country's capital, Santiago, is currently home to a thriving psychedelic rock scene. This month, the Sacred Bones label (which has already given the world Zola Jesus and Moon Duo) is putting out formidable albums from two of the brightest lights in the city's star system. F\u00f6llakzoid's five-track collection II deals in nefarious, irresistible, krautrocky darkwave, while Noctuary, from 60s-loving psych warriors the Holydrug Couple, sounds like an even more blissed-out Tame Impala. Together with enchanting power trio La Hell Gang and the ritualistic Watch Out! (all labelmates on the fabulously named Blow Your Mind records), the Santiago scene is fast catching the attention of plugged-in stoners worldwide.Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewYou could say that there's something in the water, but Chile's propensity for psychedelic sounds has more to do with what's written in the stars. As F\u00f6llakzoid guitarist and experimental film-maker Domingo Garc\u00eda-Huidobro explains, \"We find, in the cosmos, a source of inspiration where everyone, no matter where he's from, can be separated from his body. He can separate physically within the music.\" Domingo believes that South America exists in the pull of a gravitational field that allows communication with other places, times and dimensions. So far, so far-out, but to him, it's completely obvious. As 18-year-olds, F\u00f6llakzoid and his friends found themselves jamming out dirges close in length and depth to the work of Neu! and the other Krautrock godheads, without ever having heard those bands. This, they figured, could be no coincidence. \"We developed the theory that those guys, in different times, must have got the same vibes we are receiving. They wanted the sound to be bigger, they wanted to lift people from their environment.\"Furthermore, he reckons those telescopes are acting as some kind of conduit across the planes, helping to guide the destiny of him, his bandmates and everyone on the Chilean psych scene. \"Being in Chile makes you closer to the stars. A lot of the things we decide in our lives, we leave to general karma. And, yeah, space has a lot to do with it.\"", "tags": ["Psychedelia", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Chile, the home of cosmic rock"},{"date": "2013-01-15T13:59:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Easter Island, a Pacific paradise only 164 sq km in size, has seen demonstrations in recent months. The indigenous Rapa Nui \u2013 the Polynesian name for the island and people \u2013 assert that Chile has robbed them of their ancestral lands. They are threatening to declare independence and lodge a complaint against the government at the international court of justice in The Hague.The island, discovered by a Dutch ship on Easter Day 1722, and annexed by Chile in 1888, is about 4,000km from Santiago, or five hours' flight. In addition to recovering their land, the Rapa Nui \u2013 1,500 people out of a total population of 5,000 \u2013 want to restrict mass tourism, control the growing influx of mainland Chileans, and raise money to invest in healthcare, education and trade. They have made repeated appeals to the international community, demanding that Chile upholds human rights.On two occasions in December 2010 the government sent military police to dislodge demonstrators occupying a public building, due to be converted into a luxury hotel by Chilean and American investors. The security forces also evacuated the main square of Hanga Roa, the only town on the island, causing dozens of injuries and numerous arrests.In August 2009 the Rapa Nui blocked the island's only airport for two days, demanding restrictions on the length of time tourists may stay.\"We do not reject tourism, which accounts for 80% of our economy,\" says Luz Zasso Poa, the leader of Hanga Roa town council. A proud member of one of the main Rapa Nui tribes, she opposes \"mass tourism that endangers the fragile ecosystem\" of the island, a Unesco World Heritage site. More than 65,000 visitors arrive every year, to see the beaches, volcanic landscape and the moai, mysterious giant statues.The Rapa Nui say the Chileans are taking over their land, their jobs and, ultimately, control of the economy. There is no industry on the island, one of the remotest in the world: everything, even gas, is shipped in, which explains the high cost of goods.\"We could ask to become part of Polynesia, which is closer,\" says Leviante Araki, the speaker of the Rapa Nui assembly, \"given that Chile has not fulfilled its obligations.\"The rightwing president of Chile, Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, hopes to find a peaceful solution to the conflict, while continuing to assert that the island is part of Chile.This article appeared in the Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "International court of justice", "Law"], "title": "Easter Island issues Chile with independence threat"},{"date": "2013-01-25T13:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Atacama desert, high in northern Chile, provides the Earth's best vantage point for watching the stars. Clear and dry for 300 days of the year, it's home to 42% of the world's space telescopes; it's humanity's most ambitious base camp for looking out at the final frontier. At the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA) \u2013 66 radio antennas near the spine of the Andes \u2013 astronomers hope to detect galaxies that could house life-supporting, water-bearing planets, while the Very Large Telescope (VLT) observes outer space with an interferometer that is four billion times more powerful than the naked eye.Stargazing is something of a way of life in Chile, so it shouldn't be so surprising that the country's capital, Santiago, is currently home to a thriving psychedelic rock scene. This month, the Sacred Bones label (which has already given the world Zola Jesus and Moon Duo) is putting out formidable albums from two of the brightest lights in the city's star system. F\u00f6llakzoid's five-track collection II deals in nefarious, irresistible, krautrocky darkwave, while Noctuary, from 60s-loving psych warriors the Holydrug Couple, sounds like an even more blissed-out Tame Impala. Together with enchanting power trio La Hell Gang and the ritualistic Watch Out! (all labelmates on the fabulously named Blow Your Mind records), the Santiago scene is fast catching the attention of plugged-in stoners worldwide.Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewYou could say that there's something in the water, but Chile's propensity for psychedelic sounds has more to do with what's written in the stars. As F\u00f6llakzoid guitarist and experimental film-maker Domingo Garc\u00eda-Huidobro explains, \"We find, in the cosmos, a source of inspiration where everyone, no matter where he's from, can be separated from his body. He can separate physically within the music.\" Domingo believes that South America exists in the pull of a gravitational field that allows communication with other places, times and dimensions. So far, so far-out, but to him, it's completely obvious. As 18-year-olds, F\u00f6llakzoid and his friends found themselves jamming out dirges close in length and depth to the work of Neu! and the other Krautrock godheads, without ever having heard those bands. This, they figured, could be no coincidence. \"We developed the theory that those guys, in different times, must have got the same vibes we are receiving. They wanted the sound to be bigger, they wanted to lift people from their environment.\"Furthermore, he reckons those telescopes are acting as some kind of conduit across the planes, helping to guide the destiny of him, his bandmates and everyone on the Chilean psych scene. \"Being in Chile makes you closer to the stars. A lot of the things we decide in our lives, we leave to general karma. And, yeah, space has a lot to do with it.\"", "tags": ["Psychedelia", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Chile, the home of cosmic rock"},{"date": "2013-01-15T13:59:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Easter Island, a Pacific paradise only 164 sq km in size, has seen demonstrations in recent months. The indigenous Rapa Nui \u2013 the Polynesian name for the island and people \u2013 assert that Chile has robbed them of their ancestral lands. They are threatening to declare independence and lodge a complaint against the government at the international court of justice in The Hague.The island, discovered by a Dutch ship on Easter Day 1722, and annexed by Chile in 1888, is about 4,000km from Santiago, or five hours' flight. In addition to recovering their land, the Rapa Nui \u2013 1,500 people out of a total population of 5,000 \u2013 want to restrict mass tourism, control the growing influx of mainland Chileans, and raise money to invest in healthcare, education and trade. They have made repeated appeals to the international community, demanding that Chile upholds human rights.On two occasions in December 2010 the government sent military police to dislodge demonstrators occupying a public building, due to be converted into a luxury hotel by Chilean and American investors. The security forces also evacuated the main square of Hanga Roa, the only town on the island, causing dozens of injuries and numerous arrests.In August 2009 the Rapa Nui blocked the island's only airport for two days, demanding restrictions on the length of time tourists may stay.\"We do not reject tourism, which accounts for 80% of our economy,\" says Luz Zasso Poa, the leader of Hanga Roa town council. A proud member of one of the main Rapa Nui tribes, she opposes \"mass tourism that endangers the fragile ecosystem\" of the island, a Unesco World Heritage site. More than 65,000 visitors arrive every year, to see the beaches, volcanic landscape and the moai, mysterious giant statues.The Rapa Nui say the Chileans are taking over their land, their jobs and, ultimately, control of the economy. There is no industry on the island, one of the remotest in the world: everything, even gas, is shipped in, which explains the high cost of goods.\"We could ask to become part of Polynesia, which is closer,\" says Leviante Araki, the speaker of the Rapa Nui assembly, \"given that Chile has not fulfilled its obligations.\"The rightwing president of Chile, Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, hopes to find a peaceful solution to the conflict, while continuing to assert that the island is part of Chile.This article appeared in the Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "International court of justice", "Law"], "title": "Easter Island issues Chile with independence threat"},{"date": "2013-01-21T09:55:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Securing water for our mines and the communities who live close to our operations is one of our strategic commitments around sustainability. Our aim is to maximise the value of water resources while seeking to achieve no long term net harm to the environment or communities where we operate.Nowhere is this more important than in Chile's Atacama Desert, one of the world's driest regions and home to our Mantoverde copper mine. The mine is dependent on the Copiap\u00f3 aquifer for all of its water, but the Copiap\u00f3 watershed region has a serious water shortage and was decreed a permanent water shortage area in 2011. That decree enables the government to take all necessary measures to overcome the emergency and make sure people receive drinking water. The government has drawn up short, medium and long-term plans in collaboration with public and private stakeholders, including Anglo American.Mantoverde is building a water desalination plant which will help to improve the critical water shortage in the region. The plant will meet Mantoverde's water needs and represents an opportunity to make a real difference in the Atacama region. By eliminating our own requirements from the watershed, we will significantly reduce the demand on this vital resource while also presenting community investment opportunities through the development of the desalination plant. Located in the Corral de los Chanchos Bay, in the Cha\u00f1aral district, the $96 million plant will have a water production rate of 120 litres per second and a predicted life of 20 years. Start-up is scheduled for 2013 and the 20 month planned construction project will provide an estimated 150 jobs.Environmental protection measures are being addressed and constant dialogue with social organisations, neighbours' associations, fishermen's trade unions, public bodies and the municipality of Cha\u00f1aral has ensured that community concerns have been considered at every stage of development.Last year, we signed an agreement with representatives of five unions of independent workers in the Cha\u00f1aral area to address fishermen's concerns about the impact of the construction project for the desalination plant. The unions representing the fishermen form part of the Desalination Plant Work Table, an initiative set up to reach consensus between our business and the project's stakeholders concerning the construction of the plant and its impact on the community. Mantoverde will compensate local fishermen for temporary restricted access to the bay during construction of the plant by financing projects in entrepreneurship, social development and education.Nelson Guzman, a representative of the local fishermen said: \"We realise that Anglo American is a trustworthy company we can work with and that it doesn't cut corners in helping us with our needs; either in terms of the days when we cannot access the bay and in aiding us with our own economic activities. We aren't just receiving money but also training.\"Rodrigo Aguila, the desalination project's construction manager, said: \"This initiative is a fine example to follow, because there was serious work behind the agreement that today shows its benefits and demonstrates that the community and private sector can work together.\"In addition to the plant, Anglo American has agreed with the Ministry of Public Works to ensure the availability of drinking water for the nearby communities of Copiap\u00f3, Caldera and Cha\u00f1aral. As part of the agreement, Anglo American will allow the Ministry to provide the water company ECONSSA a free five-year contract for the use of half of our groundwater rights in the Copiap\u00f3 aquifer.Edgardo Riffo, general manager of the Mantoverde mine, said: \"Our agreement with the Ministry of Public Works shows that we are committed to assuring the supply of fresh drinking water for the community. Together with the construction of the desalination plant, these are important contributions to addressing the water shortage in Copiap\u00f3.\"Content on this page is provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hub ", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone"], "title": "Securing water for communities in Chile"},{"date": "2013-01-25T13:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Atacama desert, high in northern Chile, provides the Earth's best vantage point for watching the stars. Clear and dry for 300 days of the year, it's home to 42% of the world's space telescopes; it's humanity's most ambitious base camp for looking out at the final frontier. At the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA) \u2013 66 radio antennas near the spine of the Andes \u2013 astronomers hope to detect galaxies that could house life-supporting, water-bearing planets, while the Very Large Telescope (VLT) observes outer space with an interferometer that is four billion times more powerful than the naked eye.Stargazing is something of a way of life in Chile, so it shouldn't be so surprising that the country's capital, Santiago, is currently home to a thriving psychedelic rock scene. This month, the Sacred Bones label (which has already given the world Zola Jesus and Moon Duo) is putting out formidable albums from two of the brightest lights in the city's star system. F\u00f6llakzoid's five-track collection II deals in nefarious, irresistible, krautrocky darkwave, while Noctuary, from 60s-loving psych warriors the Holydrug Couple, sounds like an even more blissed-out Tame Impala. Together with enchanting power trio La Hell Gang and the ritualistic Watch Out! (all labelmates on the fabulously named Blow Your Mind records), the Santiago scene is fast catching the attention of plugged-in stoners worldwide.Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewYou could say that there's something in the water, but Chile's propensity for psychedelic sounds has more to do with what's written in the stars. As F\u00f6llakzoid guitarist and experimental film-maker Domingo Garc\u00eda-Huidobro explains, \"We find, in the cosmos, a source of inspiration where everyone, no matter where he's from, can be separated from his body. He can separate physically within the music.\" Domingo believes that South America exists in the pull of a gravitational field that allows communication with other places, times and dimensions. So far, so far-out, but to him, it's completely obvious. As 18-year-olds, F\u00f6llakzoid and his friends found themselves jamming out dirges close in length and depth to the work of Neu! and the other Krautrock godheads, without ever having heard those bands. This, they figured, could be no coincidence. \"We developed the theory that those guys, in different times, must have got the same vibes we are receiving. They wanted the sound to be bigger, they wanted to lift people from their environment.\"Furthermore, he reckons those telescopes are acting as some kind of conduit across the planes, helping to guide the destiny of him, his bandmates and everyone on the Chilean psych scene. \"Being in Chile makes you closer to the stars. A lot of the things we decide in our lives, we leave to general karma. And, yeah, space has a lot to do with it.\"", "tags": ["Psychedelia", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Chile, the home of cosmic rock"},{"date": "2013-01-15T13:59:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Easter Island, a Pacific paradise only 164 sq km in size, has seen demonstrations in recent months. The indigenous Rapa Nui \u2013 the Polynesian name for the island and people \u2013 assert that Chile has robbed them of their ancestral lands. They are threatening to declare independence and lodge a complaint against the government at the international court of justice in The Hague.The island, discovered by a Dutch ship on Easter Day 1722, and annexed by Chile in 1888, is about 4,000km from Santiago, or five hours' flight. In addition to recovering their land, the Rapa Nui \u2013 1,500 people out of a total population of 5,000 \u2013 want to restrict mass tourism, control the growing influx of mainland Chileans, and raise money to invest in healthcare, education and trade. They have made repeated appeals to the international community, demanding that Chile upholds human rights.On two occasions in December 2010 the government sent military police to dislodge demonstrators occupying a public building, due to be converted into a luxury hotel by Chilean and American investors. The security forces also evacuated the main square of Hanga Roa, the only town on the island, causing dozens of injuries and numerous arrests.In August 2009 the Rapa Nui blocked the island's only airport for two days, demanding restrictions on the length of time tourists may stay.\"We do not reject tourism, which accounts for 80% of our economy,\" says Luz Zasso Poa, the leader of Hanga Roa town council. A proud member of one of the main Rapa Nui tribes, she opposes \"mass tourism that endangers the fragile ecosystem\" of the island, a Unesco World Heritage site. More than 65,000 visitors arrive every year, to see the beaches, volcanic landscape and the moai, mysterious giant statues.The Rapa Nui say the Chileans are taking over their land, their jobs and, ultimately, control of the economy. There is no industry on the island, one of the remotest in the world: everything, even gas, is shipped in, which explains the high cost of goods.\"We could ask to become part of Polynesia, which is closer,\" says Leviante Araki, the speaker of the Rapa Nui assembly, \"given that Chile has not fulfilled its obligations.\"The rightwing president of Chile, Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, hopes to find a peaceful solution to the conflict, while continuing to assert that the island is part of Chile.This article appeared in the Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "International court of justice", "Law"], "title": "Easter Island issues Chile with independence threat"},{"date": "2013-01-21T09:55:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Securing water for our mines and the communities who live close to our operations is one of our strategic commitments around sustainability. Our aim is to maximise the value of water resources while seeking to achieve no long term net harm to the environment or communities where we operate.Nowhere is this more important than in Chile's Atacama Desert, one of the world's driest regions and home to our Mantoverde copper mine. The mine is dependent on the Copiap\u00f3 aquifer for all of its water, but the Copiap\u00f3 watershed region has a serious water shortage and was decreed a permanent water shortage area in 2011. That decree enables the government to take all necessary measures to overcome the emergency and make sure people receive drinking water. The government has drawn up short, medium and long-term plans in collaboration with public and private stakeholders, including Anglo American.Mantoverde is building a water desalination plant which will help to improve the critical water shortage in the region. The plant will meet Mantoverde's water needs and represents an opportunity to make a real difference in the Atacama region. By eliminating our own requirements from the watershed, we will significantly reduce the demand on this vital resource while also presenting community investment opportunities through the development of the desalination plant. Located in the Corral de los Chanchos Bay, in the Cha\u00f1aral district, the $96 million plant will have a water production rate of 120 litres per second and a predicted life of 20 years. Start-up is scheduled for 2013 and the 20 month planned construction project will provide an estimated 150 jobs.Environmental protection measures are being addressed and constant dialogue with social organisations, neighbours' associations, fishermen's trade unions, public bodies and the municipality of Cha\u00f1aral has ensured that community concerns have been considered at every stage of development.Last year, we signed an agreement with representatives of five unions of independent workers in the Cha\u00f1aral area to address fishermen's concerns about the impact of the construction project for the desalination plant. The unions representing the fishermen form part of the Desalination Plant Work Table, an initiative set up to reach consensus between our business and the project's stakeholders concerning the construction of the plant and its impact on the community. Mantoverde will compensate local fishermen for temporary restricted access to the bay during construction of the plant by financing projects in entrepreneurship, social development and education.Nelson Guzman, a representative of the local fishermen said: \"We realise that Anglo American is a trustworthy company we can work with and that it doesn't cut corners in helping us with our needs; either in terms of the days when we cannot access the bay and in aiding us with our own economic activities. We aren't just receiving money but also training.\"Rodrigo Aguila, the desalination project's construction manager, said: \"This initiative is a fine example to follow, because there was serious work behind the agreement that today shows its benefits and demonstrates that the community and private sector can work together.\"In addition to the plant, Anglo American has agreed with the Ministry of Public Works to ensure the availability of drinking water for the nearby communities of Copiap\u00f3, Caldera and Cha\u00f1aral. As part of the agreement, Anglo American will allow the Ministry to provide the water company ECONSSA a free five-year contract for the use of half of our groundwater rights in the Copiap\u00f3 aquifer.Edgardo Riffo, general manager of the Mantoverde mine, said: \"Our agreement with the Ministry of Public Works shows that we are committed to assuring the supply of fresh drinking water for the community. Together with the construction of the desalination plant, these are important contributions to addressing the water shortage in Copiap\u00f3.\"Content on this page is provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hub ", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone"], "title": "Securing water for communities in Chile"},{"date": "2013-03-05T12:09:15Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is in the vanguard of efforts to shape a new generation of green consumers in Latin America where rising living standards are increasingly reproducing the consumption habits found in the developed world.The country is at the heart of a project born of recognition that creating greener economies in rapidly developing countries must be accompanied by new attitudes to keep pace with their embrace of consumer culture.According to the World Bank, Latin America's middle class has grown by 50% in the past decade, and now comprises 30% of the region's population. These are avid consumers who express their hard-won upward mobility by buying high-status goods: cars and other durables.Chile is seen as a fertile country for initiatives to advance education about sustainability because its consumers and producers are among the most sophisticated in the region. It became South America's first member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in late 2009 and consumption has been growing rapidly. Domestic demand is booming and is projected to be rising faster than any OECD country in 2014. Household spending exceeds that of many OECD states, and consumer confidence by the end of 2012 was on the verge of surpassing a record high from 2006. The OECD projects that by 2030 Chile's per capita GDP will almost match that of European countries such as Poland, Hungary and Portugal.Improving living standards mean domestic spending on consumer appliances in Chile has grown rapidly. The national consumer agency, Sernac, has become a powerful advocate of consumer rights.Yet survey data also indicates that Chilean society is the most environmentally aware in Latin America. Market research suggests a growing trend among Chilean consumers to make choices on the basis of sustainability.Environmental themes have been loosely present in education in Chile since the 1960s, but the subject took on a formal character in the late 1990s as concern about ecological issues grew.Chilean authorities responded to Unesco's Decade of Education for Sustainable Development, which began in 2005, with their own national policy to shape the curriculum and pedagogy on sustainability, although this was not passed until 2009.To embed the topic at nursery, primary and secondary school levels, a system of environmental certification of schools has been created. A consortium of universities also brings sustainability into undergraduate and postgraduate courses, particularly in teacher training and the sciences. The government has also supported social groups developing sustainability options in non-formal education, often in collaboration with businesses.Unesco research suggests that education for sustainable development is increasingly seen as a catalyst for innovation in teaching, nurtures new forms of collaboration between schools, universities, communities and the private sector and, crucially, may be related to academic gains. Particular forms of learning that have become associated with this theme in schools include collaborative or participatory learning, in which pupils work together.However, a 2011 review of progress on education for sustainability in Chile highlighted problems integrating the theme within the curriculum and noted that it is often not considered a priority.The promotion of education for sustainable consumption (ESC) \u2013 teaching citizens about the environmental impact of their consumer choices \u2013 represents the latest phase of the multilateral effort.Chile was selected as one of three countries to pilot an ESC project aimed at developing clear guidelines for national policymaking. An outcome of the Marrakech Process \u2013 a global push to nurture more sustainable forms of consumption and production - the initiative is led in Santiago by Consumers International (CI) and the international Partnership for Education and Research about Responsible Living.Luis Flores, CI's project co-ordinator, said: \"When they were looking for alternatives, they were thinking of countries where there would be enough consciousness, awareness of sustainability, certain minimal levels of institutional development and where Unesco's Decade of Education for Sustainable Development was doing some sort of work.\"Chile offered very interesting ground ... there's mature institutional development and a very high level of awareness on sustainability and environmental issues.\"Work so far has been preparatory, as CI maps the state of policy and any existing provision in this area and brings together officials and experts from ministries, government agencies and Sernac, the consumer agency. However, they have also begun working with teachers to develop training and pedagogic materials, and later this year hope to distribute best-practice guidelines.Flores points out that changing attitudes within formal education is \"a hard nut to crack\" that takes time, and considerable effort has been devoted to bringing together official bodies with a stake in sustainability.Leading figures behind the Unesco Decade have pointed to growing interest in education for sustainability within the private sector, linked to a desire to develop skills for the green economy. .The role of business is to bring finance, expertise, infrastructure and contacts while both influencing how education adapts to meet the demands of the green economy and adapting itself to the priorities of green consumers. Acci\u00f3n RSE, a Chilean business federation, already offers a range of courses on sustainability for business professionals, and the Fundaci\u00f3n Casa de la Paz social movement has worked closely with businesses to develop non-formal sustainability education projects.Flores sees Chile as an important test case in how best to forge links between people, governments and businesses that, if successful, can be reproduced across Latin America.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Behaviour", "Governance"], "title": "Sustainability education in Chile looks to shift consumer behaviour"},{"date": "2013-01-25T13:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Atacama desert, high in northern Chile, provides the Earth's best vantage point for watching the stars. Clear and dry for 300 days of the year, it's home to 42% of the world's space telescopes; it's humanity's most ambitious base camp for looking out at the final frontier. At the Atacama Large Millimeter Array (ALMA) \u2013 66 radio antennas near the spine of the Andes \u2013 astronomers hope to detect galaxies that could house life-supporting, water-bearing planets, while the Very Large Telescope (VLT) observes outer space with an interferometer that is four billion times more powerful than the naked eye.Stargazing is something of a way of life in Chile, so it shouldn't be so surprising that the country's capital, Santiago, is currently home to a thriving psychedelic rock scene. This month, the Sacred Bones label (which has already given the world Zola Jesus and Moon Duo) is putting out formidable albums from two of the brightest lights in the city's star system. F\u00f6llakzoid's five-track collection II deals in nefarious, irresistible, krautrocky darkwave, while Noctuary, from 60s-loving psych warriors the Holydrug Couple, sounds like an even more blissed-out Tame Impala. Together with enchanting power trio La Hell Gang and the ritualistic Watch Out! (all labelmates on the fabulously named Blow Your Mind records), the Santiago scene is fast catching the attention of plugged-in stoners worldwide.Reading this on mobile? Click here to viewYou could say that there's something in the water, but Chile's propensity for psychedelic sounds has more to do with what's written in the stars. As F\u00f6llakzoid guitarist and experimental film-maker Domingo Garc\u00eda-Huidobro explains, \"We find, in the cosmos, a source of inspiration where everyone, no matter where he's from, can be separated from his body. He can separate physically within the music.\" Domingo believes that South America exists in the pull of a gravitational field that allows communication with other places, times and dimensions. So far, so far-out, but to him, it's completely obvious. As 18-year-olds, F\u00f6llakzoid and his friends found themselves jamming out dirges close in length and depth to the work of Neu! and the other Krautrock godheads, without ever having heard those bands. This, they figured, could be no coincidence. \"We developed the theory that those guys, in different times, must have got the same vibes we are receiving. They wanted the sound to be bigger, they wanted to lift people from their environment.\"Furthermore, he reckons those telescopes are acting as some kind of conduit across the planes, helping to guide the destiny of him, his bandmates and everyone on the Chilean psych scene. \"Being in Chile makes you closer to the stars. A lot of the things we decide in our lives, we leave to general karma. And, yeah, space has a lot to do with it.\"", "tags": ["Psychedelia", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Chile, the home of cosmic rock"},{"date": "2013-01-15T13:59:04Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Easter Island, a Pacific paradise only 164 sq km in size, has seen demonstrations in recent months. The indigenous Rapa Nui \u2013 the Polynesian name for the island and people \u2013 assert that Chile has robbed them of their ancestral lands. They are threatening to declare independence and lodge a complaint against the government at the international court of justice in The Hague.The island, discovered by a Dutch ship on Easter Day 1722, and annexed by Chile in 1888, is about 4,000km from Santiago, or five hours' flight. In addition to recovering their land, the Rapa Nui \u2013 1,500 people out of a total population of 5,000 \u2013 want to restrict mass tourism, control the growing influx of mainland Chileans, and raise money to invest in healthcare, education and trade. They have made repeated appeals to the international community, demanding that Chile upholds human rights.On two occasions in December 2010 the government sent military police to dislodge demonstrators occupying a public building, due to be converted into a luxury hotel by Chilean and American investors. The security forces also evacuated the main square of Hanga Roa, the only town on the island, causing dozens of injuries and numerous arrests.In August 2009 the Rapa Nui blocked the island's only airport for two days, demanding restrictions on the length of time tourists may stay.\"We do not reject tourism, which accounts for 80% of our economy,\" says Luz Zasso Poa, the leader of Hanga Roa town council. A proud member of one of the main Rapa Nui tribes, she opposes \"mass tourism that endangers the fragile ecosystem\" of the island, a Unesco World Heritage site. More than 65,000 visitors arrive every year, to see the beaches, volcanic landscape and the moai, mysterious giant statues.The Rapa Nui say the Chileans are taking over their land, their jobs and, ultimately, control of the economy. There is no industry on the island, one of the remotest in the world: everything, even gas, is shipped in, which explains the high cost of goods.\"We could ask to become part of Polynesia, which is closer,\" says Leviante Araki, the speaker of the Rapa Nui assembly, \"given that Chile has not fulfilled its obligations.\"The rightwing president of Chile, Sebastian Pi\u00f1era, hopes to find a peaceful solution to the conflict, while continuing to assert that the island is part of Chile.This article appeared in the Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "International court of justice", "Law"], "title": "Easter Island issues Chile with independence threat"},{"date": "2013-01-21T09:55:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Securing water for our mines and the communities who live close to our operations is one of our strategic commitments around sustainability. Our aim is to maximise the value of water resources while seeking to achieve no long term net harm to the environment or communities where we operate.Nowhere is this more important than in Chile's Atacama Desert, one of the world's driest regions and home to our Mantoverde copper mine. The mine is dependent on the Copiap\u00f3 aquifer for all of its water, but the Copiap\u00f3 watershed region has a serious water shortage and was decreed a permanent water shortage area in 2011. That decree enables the government to take all necessary measures to overcome the emergency and make sure people receive drinking water. The government has drawn up short, medium and long-term plans in collaboration with public and private stakeholders, including Anglo American.Mantoverde is building a water desalination plant which will help to improve the critical water shortage in the region. The plant will meet Mantoverde's water needs and represents an opportunity to make a real difference in the Atacama region. By eliminating our own requirements from the watershed, we will significantly reduce the demand on this vital resource while also presenting community investment opportunities through the development of the desalination plant. Located in the Corral de los Chanchos Bay, in the Cha\u00f1aral district, the $96 million plant will have a water production rate of 120 litres per second and a predicted life of 20 years. Start-up is scheduled for 2013 and the 20 month planned construction project will provide an estimated 150 jobs.Environmental protection measures are being addressed and constant dialogue with social organisations, neighbours' associations, fishermen's trade unions, public bodies and the municipality of Cha\u00f1aral has ensured that community concerns have been considered at every stage of development.Last year, we signed an agreement with representatives of five unions of independent workers in the Cha\u00f1aral area to address fishermen's concerns about the impact of the construction project for the desalination plant. The unions representing the fishermen form part of the Desalination Plant Work Table, an initiative set up to reach consensus between our business and the project's stakeholders concerning the construction of the plant and its impact on the community. Mantoverde will compensate local fishermen for temporary restricted access to the bay during construction of the plant by financing projects in entrepreneurship, social development and education.Nelson Guzman, a representative of the local fishermen said: \"We realise that Anglo American is a trustworthy company we can work with and that it doesn't cut corners in helping us with our needs; either in terms of the days when we cannot access the bay and in aiding us with our own economic activities. We aren't just receiving money but also training.\"Rodrigo Aguila, the desalination project's construction manager, said: \"This initiative is a fine example to follow, because there was serious work behind the agreement that today shows its benefits and demonstrates that the community and private sector can work together.\"In addition to the plant, Anglo American has agreed with the Ministry of Public Works to ensure the availability of drinking water for the nearby communities of Copiap\u00f3, Caldera and Cha\u00f1aral. As part of the agreement, Anglo American will allow the Ministry to provide the water company ECONSSA a free five-year contract for the use of half of our groundwater rights in the Copiap\u00f3 aquifer.Edgardo Riffo, general manager of the Mantoverde mine, said: \"Our agreement with the Ministry of Public Works shows that we are committed to assuring the supply of fresh drinking water for the community. Together with the construction of the desalination plant, these are important contributions to addressing the water shortage in Copiap\u00f3.\"Content on this page is provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hub ", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone"], "title": "Securing water for communities in Chile"},{"date": "2013-03-05T12:09:15Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is in the vanguard of efforts to shape a new generation of green consumers in Latin America where rising living standards are increasingly reproducing the consumption habits found in the developed world.The country is at the heart of a project born of recognition that creating greener economies in rapidly developing countries must be accompanied by new attitudes to keep pace with their embrace of consumer culture.According to the World Bank, Latin America's middle class has grown by 50% in the past decade, and now comprises 30% of the region's population. These are avid consumers who express their hard-won upward mobility by buying high-status goods: cars and other durables.Chile is seen as a fertile country for initiatives to advance education about sustainability because its consumers and producers are among the most sophisticated in the region. It became South America's first member of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) in late 2009 and consumption has been growing rapidly. Domestic demand is booming and is projected to be rising faster than any OECD country in 2014. Household spending exceeds that of many OECD states, and consumer confidence by the end of 2012 was on the verge of surpassing a record high from 2006. The OECD projects that by 2030 Chile's per capita GDP will almost match that of European countries such as Poland, Hungary and Portugal.Improving living standards mean domestic spending on consumer appliances in Chile has grown rapidly. The national consumer agency, Sernac, has become a powerful advocate of consumer rights.Yet survey data also indicates that Chilean society is the most environmentally aware in Latin America. Market research suggests a growing trend among Chilean consumers to make choices on the basis of sustainability.Environmental themes have been loosely present in education in Chile since the 1960s, but the subject took on a formal character in the late 1990s as concern about ecological issues grew.Chilean authorities responded to Unesco's Decade of Education for Sustainable Development, which began in 2005, with their own national policy to shape the curriculum and pedagogy on sustainability, although this was not passed until 2009.To embed the topic at nursery, primary and secondary school levels, a system of environmental certification of schools has been created. A consortium of universities also brings sustainability into undergraduate and postgraduate courses, particularly in teacher training and the sciences. The government has also supported social groups developing sustainability options in non-formal education, often in collaboration with businesses.Unesco research suggests that education for sustainable development is increasingly seen as a catalyst for innovation in teaching, nurtures new forms of collaboration between schools, universities, communities and the private sector and, crucially, may be related to academic gains. Particular forms of learning that have become associated with this theme in schools include collaborative or participatory learning, in which pupils work together.However, a 2011 review of progress on education for sustainability in Chile highlighted problems integrating the theme within the curriculum and noted that it is often not considered a priority.The promotion of education for sustainable consumption (ESC) \u2013 teaching citizens about the environmental impact of their consumer choices \u2013 represents the latest phase of the multilateral effort.Chile was selected as one of three countries to pilot an ESC project aimed at developing clear guidelines for national policymaking. An outcome of the Marrakech Process \u2013 a global push to nurture more sustainable forms of consumption and production - the initiative is led in Santiago by Consumers International (CI) and the international Partnership for Education and Research about Responsible Living.Luis Flores, CI's project co-ordinator, said: \"When they were looking for alternatives, they were thinking of countries where there would be enough consciousness, awareness of sustainability, certain minimal levels of institutional development and where Unesco's Decade of Education for Sustainable Development was doing some sort of work.\"Chile offered very interesting ground ... there's mature institutional development and a very high level of awareness on sustainability and environmental issues.\"Work so far has been preparatory, as CI maps the state of policy and any existing provision in this area and brings together officials and experts from ministries, government agencies and Sernac, the consumer agency. However, they have also begun working with teachers to develop training and pedagogic materials, and later this year hope to distribute best-practice guidelines.Flores points out that changing attitudes within formal education is \"a hard nut to crack\" that takes time, and considerable effort has been devoted to bringing together official bodies with a stake in sustainability.Leading figures behind the Unesco Decade have pointed to growing interest in education for sustainability within the private sector, linked to a desire to develop skills for the green economy. .The role of business is to bring finance, expertise, infrastructure and contacts while both influencing how education adapts to meet the demands of the green economy and adapting itself to the priorities of green consumers. Acci\u00f3n RSE, a Chilean business federation, already offers a range of courses on sustainability for business professionals, and the Fundaci\u00f3n Casa de la Paz social movement has worked closely with businesses to develop non-formal sustainability education projects.Flores sees Chile as an important test case in how best to forge links between people, governments and businesses that, if successful, can be reproduced across Latin America.This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Behaviour", "Governance"], "title": "Sustainability education in Chile looks to shift consumer behaviour"},{"date": "2013-03-14T14:37:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Working in partnership with Chile's Housing and Urban Planning Ministry (MINVU), Anglo American's copper business in Chile has delivered the final 215 homes to families affected by the 2010 earthquake and tsunami.The Nuevo Cocholg\u00fce housing project was initiated to provide new homes to families of Cocholg\u00fce, in Chile's eighth region, that were affected by the earthquake and tsunami in 2010. The keys to the 215 families' new homes were handed over at a ceremony attended by Anglo American chief executive Cynthia Carroll, CEO of our Copper business John Mackenzie, Chile's Minister of Housing and Urban Planning Rodrigo P\u00e9rez, and local authorities, last month.John Mackenzie said the fact that the company had deliveredon its promise to bring new homes to the families affected, made him and his colleagues very proud. \"We are convinced that the work carried out with MINVU and the Un Techo para Cristo foundation must be a long-term one and that is why we would like to thank them for their commitment and hard work, which allowed us to make this dream a reality.\"In total, Anglo American has contributed to financing 449 permanent residences for affected families through a public-private partnership between with MINVU formed shortly after the earthquake. It contributed US$1.8 million in order to fund the initiative which was carried out in three stages.The project is part of a US$10 million investment by Anglo American for the reconstruction of the most affected areas of Chile following the earthquake. It also includes the building of modular school buildings in the seventh and eighth regions of the country and support for 2,000 small-business owners, an initiative carried out with the Fondo Esperanza non-profit organisation.Copy on this page is provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hub", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone", "Guardian sustainable business"], "title": "Housing project in Chile delivers homes to families affected by earthquake"},{"date": "2013-05-27T16:42:02Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Waitrose is to start supplying some of its most popular food and drink products to Chile.The supermarket hopes the Chilean public will take to English breakfast tea, biscuits and truffles, as it offers more than 40 lines to over 100 shops in Unimarc supermarkets.Waitrose said it will start shifting European favourites such as penne pasta, mayonnaise made with extra virgin olive oil and stuffed olives, as international sales increased 20% last year.David Morton, Waitrose's business-to-business director, said: \"South America, in particular Chile, has a growing economy and we were approached by Unimarc to help meet the demand for more cosmopolitan flavours among their customers.\"He added: \"Wherever we sell our products overseas, we find the bestsellers are food and drink associated with Britain, such as tea and biscuits.\"Waitrose may well be on the lookout for new partners, after it was revealed earlier this month that relations with Ocado had broken down after the online groceries delivery firm announced a new partnership with rival Morrisons.The company first started exporting its products in 1996 and now has a presence in 46 countries worldwide including Singapore, Thailand, New Zealand and India.", "tags": ["Waitrose", "Retail industry", "John Lewis", "Business", "Chile"], "title": "Waitrose to supply Chile with the best of British"},{"date": "2013-09-10T12:59:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The wind, unusually, is from the Andes and Valdivia is basking in sun. There is an almost physical lifting of the spirits in this break from the seemingly interminable winter rains and fogs and Valdivians are enjoying their costanera, the promenade along the Calle Calle river.Out on the water the crews from Valdivia's several rowing clubs are exercising against a dramatic backdrop of shipyards. Even the street dogs, perros callejeros, that are a feature of Chile's towns are in amiable mood.The fine weather provides the perfect invitation to begin Sunday lunch with a pisco sour. No meal out in Chile feels complete unless it starts with the rattle of the cocktail shaker for this tangy aperitif, the origins of which are claimed equally by Chile and Peru. Should, however, the palate require some other stimulation, an honourable local alternative is one of the excellent Valdivian beers, a legacy of the 19th-century German settlement in the area.My plate of grilled conger eel is perfect and comes from the colourful fish and vegetable market a few metres from the restaurant. An almost obligatory post-prandial activity is to saunter through this riverside attraction, watching pelicans, vultures, hawks, cormorants and gulls vie with sea lions for the fishy scraps discarded in the river as unsuitable for humans.The sea lions pose on the concrete steps at the edge of the water with their heads in the air as if oh-so bored with life. \"Another fish head? Oh I suppose I have to.\"A few minutes further along the river is one of the watch towers, or torreones, from the Spanish colonial period, part of the city's defences against both foreign threat and the indigenous Mapuche nation. Valdivia was an important stronghold. In 1820, though, the nascent Chilean navy, under the command of a Scot, Lord Thomas Cochrane, stormed the forts to gain a famous victory that effectively ended Spanish power in the south. Cochrane provided a model for CS Forester's fictitious hero Horatio Hornblower and he is celebrated in Chile through many a street name and even a town.Today the forts can be visited with a pleasant river cruise that includes lunch and, of course, a pisco sour.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Chile", "Food and drink"], "title": "Letter from Chile: a taste of history"},{"date": "2013-09-10T12:59:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The wind, unusually, is from the Andes and Valdivia is basking in sun. There is an almost physical lifting of the spirits in this break from the seemingly interminable winter rains and fogs and Valdivians are enjoying their costanera, the promenade along the Calle Calle river.Out on the water the crews from Valdivia's several rowing clubs are exercising against a dramatic backdrop of shipyards. Even the street dogs, perros callejeros, that are a feature of Chile's towns are in amiable mood.The fine weather provides the perfect invitation to begin Sunday lunch with a pisco sour. No meal out in Chile feels complete unless it starts with the rattle of the cocktail shaker for this tangy aperitif, the origins of which are claimed equally by Chile and Peru. Should, however, the palate require some other stimulation, an honourable local alternative is one of the excellent Valdivian beers, a legacy of the 19th-century German settlement in the area.My plate of grilled conger eel is perfect and comes from the colourful fish and vegetable market a few metres from the restaurant. An almost obligatory post-prandial activity is to saunter through this riverside attraction, watching pelicans, vultures, hawks, cormorants and gulls vie with sea lions for the fishy scraps discarded in the river as unsuitable for humans.The sea lions pose on the concrete steps at the edge of the water with their heads in the air as if oh-so bored with life. \"Another fish head? Oh I suppose I have to.\"A few minutes further along the river is one of the watch towers, or torreones, from the Spanish colonial period, part of the city's defences against both foreign threat and the indigenous Mapuche nation. Valdivia was an important stronghold. In 1820, though, the nascent Chilean navy, under the command of a Scot, Lord Thomas Cochrane, stormed the forts to gain a famous victory that effectively ended Spanish power in the south. Cochrane provided a model for CS Forester's fictitious hero Horatio Hornblower and he is celebrated in Chile through many a street name and even a town.Today the forts can be visited with a pleasant river cruise that includes lunch and, of course, a pisco sour.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Chile", "Food and drink"], "title": "Letter from Chile: a taste of history"},{"date": "2013-09-19T20:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "On the upper deck of the trans-Andes bus, the gap-year backpackers from every advanced economy of the globe did not appreciate the danger we were in. Not yet. When I looked back from my seat at the front, I saw that many of them were busy with iPads and iPhones, a few were asleep and the rest were chatting.No one was watching the digital display that recorded the outside temperature. It had been falling ever since we left behind the last human habitation, in Argentina. Now it was below zero and still dropping. Rolling sheets of ice particles were scouring the road, while the midday sky remained an imperturbable blue.We had spent several hours winding westwards towards Chile, up into inhospitable realms, passing vast salt lakes presided over by snow-capped peaks and seeing signs of life disappear. Now there were no more vicu\u00f1a and guanaco, the wild llamas of the Andes, no suri, the giant flightless bird. At 4,800m, even the golden tussock grass had given up and there was nothing, only the jagged peaks rising from a barren plain. The bus lowed, then gave a shudder as an icy blast hit it broadsides.Crossings are often the best part of any journey, whether it's over a border or pass, or through straits. Humans have long known that such moments require the greatest concentration, for in those crossings comes the greatest danger \u2013 and the greatest pleasure. My favourites have always been mountain passes: the modest Lake District, or the dizzying Rockies or Himalayas.I was looking forward to my first journey over the Andes, and to this pass, from Purmamarca in Argentina to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile. I was expecting something special from the 10-hour bus ride. But I had not considered that a journey over a barrier like the Andes can take a traveller over subtler barriers too \u2013 like the one that separates you from the local culture.The woman across the aisle let out a howl of frustration: \"No signal!\" Along the deck, headphones were flung aside, screens tapped, phones raised. The bus kept grinding upwards and the temperature gauge settled for -10C. The sheets of ice had become storms of blinding white. Then, with a lurch, we stopped. Ahead of us a lorry was jammed into a bank of driven ice. There was no way past, and our coach could not reverse or turn around. I saw the driver, or one of his assistants, struggling through the blizzard.\"There's this girl I know on Facebook,\" said someone behind me, \"she was stuck for two days and then they went back to Purmamarca.\"This news caused alarm: \"They shouldn't allow the buses to go if it's dangerous!\" \"I've got a flight to catch.\"I pulled on my boots and jacket, grabbed my camera and set off to the lower deck. On the stairs the transition from tourism to adventure travel was drawing differing responses. A few passengers were embracing the excitement, but most were grim-faced. \"The toilet's blocked.\" \"I'm cold.\" We'd been stopped less than 10 minutes.Fortunately for me the adventure had started a day earlier and I was already in the mood. Sometimes a trip does that: jumbling any plans and demanding that you leap from tourist to traveller. My plan had read: \"Transfer by car from Salta to Purmamarca via the famous tourist attraction of Humahuaca Gorge, then take the bus across the Andes to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile.\" That was not exactly what had happened.I'd driven out of Salta early the previous morning with Edgar, my guide there. We were talking about the astonishing Museum of High Altitude Archaeology in the town square.\"It's still controversial with some people,\" Edgar had said. \"They don't like their ancestors to be disturbed.\"Five centuries ago the Incas, revering the eternal sun and the restless volcanoes, had sacrificed children by leaving them to die on the top of particular mountains.\"It's not a human sacrifice,\" said Edgar. \"Don't call it that.\"Their diminutive corpses were discovered in 1999 \u2013 preserved by severe cold and depleted oxygen \u2013 and removed to Salta. In the museum the story of how they came to be on a remote, 6,700m mountaintop builds to a remarkable moment of ghastly drama, when you come face to face with one of the children. It is a moving experience, giving a glimpse into ancient times, when people believed that mountains were living beings who made war on each other. In those times the few humans who passed that way came as supplicants, filled with a sense of awe and magic.\"Some people still revere the mountains,\" said Edgar. \"They wanted those children to be left alone.\"Edgar had been going to show me the gorge then drop me in Purmamarca, the last town before the high Andes, but after some hours we'd come to a long queue of traffic. A crowd of students had blocked the road, demanding that their half-built campus be completed. A tired government representative was negotiating. No one expected an early resolution.\"We could be sitting here for hours,\" I said. \"Can't we turn around and do something else?\"Edgar thought about it. \"I heard about a man who lives in the mountains \u2013 a veteran of the Malvinas war and a famous singer. They say he's got some kind of museum going.\"Here was a border that I'd been wanting to cross all the time I'd been in Argentina, the one that separates our Falklands war from their Guerra de las Malvinas, the barrier between Argentinian understanding and British. Here was the perfect opportunity to turn tourism into real travel.We drove back to the town of Tilcara for directions, then took a dirt track west into the Andean foothills, climbing a gorge past dry cliffs and stands of giant cactus. An electricity line led us to a shack in a grove of poplars. We parked and walked closer. A man appeared and beckoned to us.Nicolas Toconas proved to be a jovial middle-aged character who was building a palace for himself \"outside the system\". He showed us the half-finished living area, temporarily roofed by camouflage netting and tin. On the walls were photographs of his wartime experiences, which he began to explain in great detail.In Nicolas's war, the British had spectacularly failed to achieve any military objective. He had seen it with his own eyes: ships sunk, infantry attacks repelled, aircraft downed. In the end the \"colonialists\" had been bailed out by the Americans, who had then tricked the victorious Argentines into leaving. It was a cogent, believable account, a view of history I could never have found in Britain.Nicolas grinned at my reaction: \"Not the history you learned in school, is it?\" He took my arm. \"Let's forget about war. I want to show you something.\"He guided me through a doorway, and when my eyes had accustomed to the gloom, I looked in surprise at a kingsize bed covered in dark velvet, drapes hanging over ornamental mirrors and a vast karaoke system.\"Now, I will sing for you.\"He pulled out a microphone and a plasma screen came to life with a shot of a couple strolling on a beach. \"B\u00e9same, b\u00e9same mucho,\" crooned Nicolas in a voice as smooth as wild pampas honey. \"Como si fuera esta noche la \u00faltima vez.\"The song ended on an emotional warble, then Nicolas rummaged in a drawer and handed me a small circle of cloth. \"A souvenir for you!\" It was an Argentinian parachute regiment badge, decorated with a map of Las Malvinas.After sunset, Edgar dropped me in Purmamarca, in the Andean foothills. It's an attractive waystation, surrounded by cliffs and gorges in an astonishing variety of mineral colours. In the morning, I walked around the town to admire the multicoloured rocks in the rising sun. I sent Edgar a mental thank you for insisting I stop the night, then strolled to the bus stop.I had thought my adventure was over at that point, that being crooned to by a Falklands vet would be the high point. Five hours later, with the bus stuck in a blizzard at almost 5,000m, I was trying to open the outer door and take photographs.\"They won't let anyone out,\" said an American traveller. \"People would freeze to death.\"I tapped on the door that separated the passenger compartment from the driver's cab. There was no answer. I opened it and peeped inside. The cab was empty. Two steaming containers of mat\u00e9, the local tea, stood on the dashboard. Finding the outer door ajar, I pushed it open and stepped out and was struck by a blast of cold air. The driver came staggering across.\"Aha! You like our weather?\"The thermometer read -10C.\"With the wind, it is much worse. Here, come inside and drink mat\u00e9.\"We stepped back into the cab and he offered me the container of thick herbal goo, with an enamel straw. Mat\u00e9 is almost a way of life in parts of South America, a mildly addictive stimulant mashed from yerba leaves.I'd drunk it made from a teabag, without much pleasure, but this was my initiation by an aficionado. I sucked and got something like a slurp of sweet silage. The driver grinned. \"Good?\"I nodded. \"It's warm.\"Perhaps it was an acquired taste. I took another slug. Definitely silage.\"Will we be here long?\"He laughed. \"We are at almost 5,000m. Summer is short. We usually get through. They are trying to dig that truck out.\"I took another sip of mat\u00e9.\"This is the best road for seeing the Andes,\" he said. \"Even up here there are living creatures: vicu\u00f1as, rheas and vizcachas. But you know the mountains are alive, too.\"He pointed to the dark peaks just visible above us: one a classic cone, the other lower and less defined: \"That is Licancabur and next to him is his headless brother, Juriques. Both brothers were in love with another mountain, Quemal, but she loved only Juriques. She threw a rock at Licancabur but it missed and hit Juriques, knocking his head off. Now they stare at each other across the Atacama.\"\"Can mountains be in love?\"He laughed. \"Of course. And they can be angry \u2013 like today.\"I sucked on the silage, beginning to like the sweet grassy bitterness. The driver's assistants returned, blowing on their fingers and laughing. Ahead of us, the lorry's brake lights came on, then the vehicle shuddered and began to move forward.\"Licancabur has decided that we can pass,\" said the driver.It was over. We were not going to be modern sacrifices, entombed in some future museum, still clutching our votive digital gadgets. We were simply travellers on one of the world's most magnificent bus rides.I made my way back to my seat. As we started, the passengers relaxed. The Australian girl next to me laughed. \"I can't wait to post this on Facebook.\" Others put their headphones back in, but most were notably more attentive to their surroundings. Perhaps this was all the mountains had wanted.In a few minutes we had cleared the blizzard, the sky became deep tranquil blue again and away to our right were the brothers, the two magnificent volcanic cones. As our crossing of the Andes ended, this panorama opened out to reveal a staggering array of snow-capped mountains to north and south. All of them, I guessed, alive with their own stories, should any traveller care to listen.The tripThis trip was provided by Sumak Travel (020 3642 4246, sumak-travel.org) a specialist in community-based ecotourism. A 20-day private tour, including Buenos Aires, the Iguazu Falls, rural tourism in Salta, the Quebrada de Humahuaca, Atacama desert and Santiago, costs from \u00a33,180pp, including accommodation, guided activities and excursions, all breakfasts and most other meals, transfers and contributions to the social projects visited, but not international flightsGetting there Flights were provided by Netflights (0844 692 6792, netflights.com), which has return flights to from London to Buenos Aires with KLM from \u00a3699Further information Rail Travel Grand Central (0844 811 0071 grandcentralrail.com) provided transport between York and London. Advance tickets from \u00a313.60", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Travel", "South America holidays", "Road trips", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Crossing the Andes: breaking borders on a stormy mountain bus ride between Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2013-09-10T12:59:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The wind, unusually, is from the Andes and Valdivia is basking in sun. There is an almost physical lifting of the spirits in this break from the seemingly interminable winter rains and fogs and Valdivians are enjoying their costanera, the promenade along the Calle Calle river.Out on the water the crews from Valdivia's several rowing clubs are exercising against a dramatic backdrop of shipyards. Even the street dogs, perros callejeros, that are a feature of Chile's towns are in amiable mood.The fine weather provides the perfect invitation to begin Sunday lunch with a pisco sour. No meal out in Chile feels complete unless it starts with the rattle of the cocktail shaker for this tangy aperitif, the origins of which are claimed equally by Chile and Peru. Should, however, the palate require some other stimulation, an honourable local alternative is one of the excellent Valdivian beers, a legacy of the 19th-century German settlement in the area.My plate of grilled conger eel is perfect and comes from the colourful fish and vegetable market a few metres from the restaurant. An almost obligatory post-prandial activity is to saunter through this riverside attraction, watching pelicans, vultures, hawks, cormorants and gulls vie with sea lions for the fishy scraps discarded in the river as unsuitable for humans.The sea lions pose on the concrete steps at the edge of the water with their heads in the air as if oh-so bored with life. \"Another fish head? Oh I suppose I have to.\"A few minutes further along the river is one of the watch towers, or torreones, from the Spanish colonial period, part of the city's defences against both foreign threat and the indigenous Mapuche nation. Valdivia was an important stronghold. In 1820, though, the nascent Chilean navy, under the command of a Scot, Lord Thomas Cochrane, stormed the forts to gain a famous victory that effectively ended Spanish power in the south. Cochrane provided a model for CS Forester's fictitious hero Horatio Hornblower and he is celebrated in Chile through many a street name and even a town.Today the forts can be visited with a pleasant river cruise that includes lunch and, of course, a pisco sour.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Chile", "Food and drink"], "title": "Letter from Chile: a taste of history"},{"date": "2013-09-19T20:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "On the upper deck of the trans-Andes bus, the gap-year backpackers from every advanced economy of the globe did not appreciate the danger we were in. Not yet. When I looked back from my seat at the front, I saw that many of them were busy with iPads and iPhones, a few were asleep and the rest were chatting.No one was watching the digital display that recorded the outside temperature. It had been falling ever since we left behind the last human habitation, in Argentina. Now it was below zero and still dropping. Rolling sheets of ice particles were scouring the road, while the midday sky remained an imperturbable blue.We had spent several hours winding westwards towards Chile, up into inhospitable realms, passing vast salt lakes presided over by snow-capped peaks and seeing signs of life disappear. Now there were no more vicu\u00f1a and guanaco, the wild llamas of the Andes, no suri, the giant flightless bird. At 4,800m, even the golden tussock grass had given up and there was nothing, only the jagged peaks rising from a barren plain. The bus lowed, then gave a shudder as an icy blast hit it broadsides.Crossings are often the best part of any journey, whether it's over a border or pass, or through straits. Humans have long known that such moments require the greatest concentration, for in those crossings comes the greatest danger \u2013 and the greatest pleasure. My favourites have always been mountain passes: the modest Lake District, or the dizzying Rockies or Himalayas.I was looking forward to my first journey over the Andes, and to this pass, from Purmamarca in Argentina to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile. I was expecting something special from the 10-hour bus ride. But I had not considered that a journey over a barrier like the Andes can take a traveller over subtler barriers too \u2013 like the one that separates you from the local culture.The woman across the aisle let out a howl of frustration: \"No signal!\" Along the deck, headphones were flung aside, screens tapped, phones raised. The bus kept grinding upwards and the temperature gauge settled for -10C. The sheets of ice had become storms of blinding white. Then, with a lurch, we stopped. Ahead of us a lorry was jammed into a bank of driven ice. There was no way past, and our coach could not reverse or turn around. I saw the driver, or one of his assistants, struggling through the blizzard.\"There's this girl I know on Facebook,\" said someone behind me, \"she was stuck for two days and then they went back to Purmamarca.\"This news caused alarm: \"They shouldn't allow the buses to go if it's dangerous!\" \"I've got a flight to catch.\"I pulled on my boots and jacket, grabbed my camera and set off to the lower deck. On the stairs the transition from tourism to adventure travel was drawing differing responses. A few passengers were embracing the excitement, but most were grim-faced. \"The toilet's blocked.\" \"I'm cold.\" We'd been stopped less than 10 minutes.Fortunately for me the adventure had started a day earlier and I was already in the mood. Sometimes a trip does that: jumbling any plans and demanding that you leap from tourist to traveller. My plan had read: \"Transfer by car from Salta to Purmamarca via the famous tourist attraction of Humahuaca Gorge, then take the bus across the Andes to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile.\" That was not exactly what had happened.I'd driven out of Salta early the previous morning with Edgar, my guide there. We were talking about the astonishing Museum of High Altitude Archaeology in the town square.\"It's still controversial with some people,\" Edgar had said. \"They don't like their ancestors to be disturbed.\"Five centuries ago the Incas, revering the eternal sun and the restless volcanoes, had sacrificed children by leaving them to die on the top of particular mountains.\"It's not a human sacrifice,\" said Edgar. \"Don't call it that.\"Their diminutive corpses were discovered in 1999 \u2013 preserved by severe cold and depleted oxygen \u2013 and removed to Salta. In the museum the story of how they came to be on a remote, 6,700m mountaintop builds to a remarkable moment of ghastly drama, when you come face to face with one of the children. It is a moving experience, giving a glimpse into ancient times, when people believed that mountains were living beings who made war on each other. In those times the few humans who passed that way came as supplicants, filled with a sense of awe and magic.\"Some people still revere the mountains,\" said Edgar. \"They wanted those children to be left alone.\"Edgar had been going to show me the gorge then drop me in Purmamarca, the last town before the high Andes, but after some hours we'd come to a long queue of traffic. A crowd of students had blocked the road, demanding that their half-built campus be completed. A tired government representative was negotiating. No one expected an early resolution.\"We could be sitting here for hours,\" I said. \"Can't we turn around and do something else?\"Edgar thought about it. \"I heard about a man who lives in the mountains \u2013 a veteran of the Malvinas war and a famous singer. They say he's got some kind of museum going.\"Here was a border that I'd been wanting to cross all the time I'd been in Argentina, the one that separates our Falklands war from their Guerra de las Malvinas, the barrier between Argentinian understanding and British. Here was the perfect opportunity to turn tourism into real travel.We drove back to the town of Tilcara for directions, then took a dirt track west into the Andean foothills, climbing a gorge past dry cliffs and stands of giant cactus. An electricity line led us to a shack in a grove of poplars. We parked and walked closer. A man appeared and beckoned to us.Nicolas Toconas proved to be a jovial middle-aged character who was building a palace for himself \"outside the system\". He showed us the half-finished living area, temporarily roofed by camouflage netting and tin. On the walls were photographs of his wartime experiences, which he began to explain in great detail.In Nicolas's war, the British had spectacularly failed to achieve any military objective. He had seen it with his own eyes: ships sunk, infantry attacks repelled, aircraft downed. In the end the \"colonialists\" had been bailed out by the Americans, who had then tricked the victorious Argentines into leaving. It was a cogent, believable account, a view of history I could never have found in Britain.Nicolas grinned at my reaction: \"Not the history you learned in school, is it?\" He took my arm. \"Let's forget about war. I want to show you something.\"He guided me through a doorway, and when my eyes had accustomed to the gloom, I looked in surprise at a kingsize bed covered in dark velvet, drapes hanging over ornamental mirrors and a vast karaoke system.\"Now, I will sing for you.\"He pulled out a microphone and a plasma screen came to life with a shot of a couple strolling on a beach. \"B\u00e9same, b\u00e9same mucho,\" crooned Nicolas in a voice as smooth as wild pampas honey. \"Como si fuera esta noche la \u00faltima vez.\"The song ended on an emotional warble, then Nicolas rummaged in a drawer and handed me a small circle of cloth. \"A souvenir for you!\" It was an Argentinian parachute regiment badge, decorated with a map of Las Malvinas.After sunset, Edgar dropped me in Purmamarca, in the Andean foothills. It's an attractive waystation, surrounded by cliffs and gorges in an astonishing variety of mineral colours. In the morning, I walked around the town to admire the multicoloured rocks in the rising sun. I sent Edgar a mental thank you for insisting I stop the night, then strolled to the bus stop.I had thought my adventure was over at that point, that being crooned to by a Falklands vet would be the high point. Five hours later, with the bus stuck in a blizzard at almost 5,000m, I was trying to open the outer door and take photographs.\"They won't let anyone out,\" said an American traveller. \"People would freeze to death.\"I tapped on the door that separated the passenger compartment from the driver's cab. There was no answer. I opened it and peeped inside. The cab was empty. Two steaming containers of mat\u00e9, the local tea, stood on the dashboard. Finding the outer door ajar, I pushed it open and stepped out and was struck by a blast of cold air. The driver came staggering across.\"Aha! You like our weather?\"The thermometer read -10C.\"With the wind, it is much worse. Here, come inside and drink mat\u00e9.\"We stepped back into the cab and he offered me the container of thick herbal goo, with an enamel straw. Mat\u00e9 is almost a way of life in parts of South America, a mildly addictive stimulant mashed from yerba leaves.I'd drunk it made from a teabag, without much pleasure, but this was my initiation by an aficionado. I sucked and got something like a slurp of sweet silage. The driver grinned. \"Good?\"I nodded. \"It's warm.\"Perhaps it was an acquired taste. I took another slug. Definitely silage.\"Will we be here long?\"He laughed. \"We are at almost 5,000m. Summer is short. We usually get through. They are trying to dig that truck out.\"I took another sip of mat\u00e9.\"This is the best road for seeing the Andes,\" he said. \"Even up here there are living creatures: vicu\u00f1as, rheas and vizcachas. But you know the mountains are alive, too.\"He pointed to the dark peaks just visible above us: one a classic cone, the other lower and less defined: \"That is Licancabur and next to him is his headless brother, Juriques. Both brothers were in love with another mountain, Quemal, but she loved only Juriques. She threw a rock at Licancabur but it missed and hit Juriques, knocking his head off. Now they stare at each other across the Atacama.\"\"Can mountains be in love?\"He laughed. \"Of course. And they can be angry \u2013 like today.\"I sucked on the silage, beginning to like the sweet grassy bitterness. The driver's assistants returned, blowing on their fingers and laughing. Ahead of us, the lorry's brake lights came on, then the vehicle shuddered and began to move forward.\"Licancabur has decided that we can pass,\" said the driver.It was over. We were not going to be modern sacrifices, entombed in some future museum, still clutching our votive digital gadgets. We were simply travellers on one of the world's most magnificent bus rides.I made my way back to my seat. As we started, the passengers relaxed. The Australian girl next to me laughed. \"I can't wait to post this on Facebook.\" Others put their headphones back in, but most were notably more attentive to their surroundings. Perhaps this was all the mountains had wanted.In a few minutes we had cleared the blizzard, the sky became deep tranquil blue again and away to our right were the brothers, the two magnificent volcanic cones. As our crossing of the Andes ended, this panorama opened out to reveal a staggering array of snow-capped mountains to north and south. All of them, I guessed, alive with their own stories, should any traveller care to listen.The tripThis trip was provided by Sumak Travel (020 3642 4246, sumak-travel.org) a specialist in community-based ecotourism. A 20-day private tour, including Buenos Aires, the Iguazu Falls, rural tourism in Salta, the Quebrada de Humahuaca, Atacama desert and Santiago, costs from \u00a33,180pp, including accommodation, guided activities and excursions, all breakfasts and most other meals, transfers and contributions to the social projects visited, but not international flightsGetting there Flights were provided by Netflights (0844 692 6792, netflights.com), which has return flights to from London to Buenos Aires with KLM from \u00a3699Further information Rail Travel Grand Central (0844 811 0071 grandcentralrail.com) provided transport between York and London. Advance tickets from \u00a313.60", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Travel", "South America holidays", "Road trips", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Crossing the Andes: breaking borders on a stormy mountain bus ride between Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2013-09-13T17:24:51Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Lewd, shrewd and often witheringly funny, Chile's leading satirical magazine has proved itself again this week as the country's most distinctive media voice and a symbol of how far the nation has opened up in the post-Pinochet era.Founded in 1998 and named after the Harley Street consultancy where General Augusto Pinochet was arrested that year, The Clinic has developed from an underground pamphlet into the most popular magazine in the country \u2013 and one of Latin America's fastest growing news websites.Like the Onion, it is characterised by irreverent humour and a strong sense of the absurd. Like Private Eye, it combines parody with in-depth investigations and a provocative analysis of current affairs. But The Clinic goes further than both in its use of profanity and outrageously Photoshopped images.The cover for this week's 40th anniversary of the coup that brought Pinochet to power was typically eye-catching: a montage of the face of the dictator on the body and uniform of Fidel Castro. Inside were the usual mix of poems, photos, sex confessions, cartoons that mock leading politicians, the Catholic Church and mainstream newspapers. As has been the case since the magazine's origins, Pinochet is the butt of most jokes with comic strips of him as a Pinocchio doll - the lying puppet of US president Richard Nixon - and a mock-up of some of the things he might be doing if he were alive today (for example tweeting: \"If you don't follow me, I will send the secret police to your home).But there is more to the content than a send-up. In the past week The Clinic has led much of the serious coverage of the anniversary with the publication of a 68-page special issue and hundreds of articles, including investigative pieces that exposed torturers, probed the legacy of the coup and provoked debate on how much further democracy needs to progress in Chile.The Clinic itself is testimony to the transformation that has occurred in the past two decades. It traces its origins to a heated discussion over wine and pasta in the Da Noi restaurant in Santiago in October 1998 between a group of friends who were furious at the domestic media's timid coverage of Pinochet's arrest in London. They decided to create their own vehicle.Initially deemed \"more of an art project than a newspaper\", the first few editions were produced clandestinely and circulated for free in coffee shops and bars in Santiago. The operation moved to a semi-commercial footing soon after with distribution through the many news kiosks in the downtown area, paid for by the three founders - Patricio Fernandez, Paul Dittborn and Mario Lobo - who each put up $2,000. It was a risky venture. Pinochet had stepped down several years earlier, but his shadow continued to loom large over Chile. The country had yet to pass a divorce law, TV program makers had to keep the censors happy, and there was little nightlife in Santiago.\"At that time the nation was ultra-conservative and there was a lot of self-censorship,\" Fernandez told the Guardian. \"There were many issues that no one dared to mention and pubic debate was restricted. Our publication came along as a disruptive presence. Some called us 'immoral', others 'terrorists'. But for many more, we were a liberating force.\"Back then, The Clinic was a thin bimonthly with an initial print run of just 13,000 copies. More than 500 editions later, it is now a weekly with almost 140,000 readers, 458,000 Twitter followers and a website with more than 3 million unique visitors a month \u2013 a notable achievement in a nation of 17.4 million people.Since 2005 it has been the best selling magazine in Chile and it has inspired several imitators in the Spanish-speaking world.The anti-establishment organ still struggles to secure advertising from large companies, but history seems to be on its side. The media and political environment have changed enormously since The Clinic began operating. Caution about criticising Pinochet or delving into the dark secrets of his dictatorship has faded. Last week's most popular TV show wasCaravan of Death, about the military hit squads that travelled by helicopter to round up and execute political opponents in the wake of the 1973 coup.Echoes of the magazine's absurdist humour can also be seen in the creative forms of protest used by students in their ongoing battle for education reform. Past demonstrations include a mass Michael Jackson-style zombie , dance and a 15-minute kissathon, a non-stop running relay around the presidential palace and the participation of lipstick-wearing high school transvestites known as the Whores of Babylon.\"Culturally speaking, Chile has undergone an important process of opening,\" says Fernandez. \"I would say that the key moment for this openness was the arrest of Pinochet in London. I guess The Clinic helped a lot too, but I'd say our magazine was also a consequence of the liberating trends that led to his arrest. We are now seeing another generation, more rock-and-roll, less mournful and infinitely more brazen than those who were scared with the mental wounds of the past.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media"], "title": "Chile finds its voice in The Clinic satirical magazine"},{"date": "2013-09-10T12:59:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The wind, unusually, is from the Andes and Valdivia is basking in sun. There is an almost physical lifting of the spirits in this break from the seemingly interminable winter rains and fogs and Valdivians are enjoying their costanera, the promenade along the Calle Calle river.Out on the water the crews from Valdivia's several rowing clubs are exercising against a dramatic backdrop of shipyards. Even the street dogs, perros callejeros, that are a feature of Chile's towns are in amiable mood.The fine weather provides the perfect invitation to begin Sunday lunch with a pisco sour. No meal out in Chile feels complete unless it starts with the rattle of the cocktail shaker for this tangy aperitif, the origins of which are claimed equally by Chile and Peru. Should, however, the palate require some other stimulation, an honourable local alternative is one of the excellent Valdivian beers, a legacy of the 19th-century German settlement in the area.My plate of grilled conger eel is perfect and comes from the colourful fish and vegetable market a few metres from the restaurant. An almost obligatory post-prandial activity is to saunter through this riverside attraction, watching pelicans, vultures, hawks, cormorants and gulls vie with sea lions for the fishy scraps discarded in the river as unsuitable for humans.The sea lions pose on the concrete steps at the edge of the water with their heads in the air as if oh-so bored with life. \"Another fish head? Oh I suppose I have to.\"A few minutes further along the river is one of the watch towers, or torreones, from the Spanish colonial period, part of the city's defences against both foreign threat and the indigenous Mapuche nation. Valdivia was an important stronghold. In 1820, though, the nascent Chilean navy, under the command of a Scot, Lord Thomas Cochrane, stormed the forts to gain a famous victory that effectively ended Spanish power in the south. Cochrane provided a model for CS Forester's fictitious hero Horatio Hornblower and he is celebrated in Chile through many a street name and even a town.Today the forts can be visited with a pleasant river cruise that includes lunch and, of course, a pisco sour.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Chile", "Food and drink"], "title": "Letter from Chile: a taste of history"},{"date": "2013-09-19T20:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "On the upper deck of the trans-Andes bus, the gap-year backpackers from every advanced economy of the globe did not appreciate the danger we were in. Not yet. When I looked back from my seat at the front, I saw that many of them were busy with iPads and iPhones, a few were asleep and the rest were chatting.No one was watching the digital display that recorded the outside temperature. It had been falling ever since we left behind the last human habitation, in Argentina. Now it was below zero and still dropping. Rolling sheets of ice particles were scouring the road, while the midday sky remained an imperturbable blue.We had spent several hours winding westwards towards Chile, up into inhospitable realms, passing vast salt lakes presided over by snow-capped peaks and seeing signs of life disappear. Now there were no more vicu\u00f1a and guanaco, the wild llamas of the Andes, no suri, the giant flightless bird. At 4,800m, even the golden tussock grass had given up and there was nothing, only the jagged peaks rising from a barren plain. The bus lowed, then gave a shudder as an icy blast hit it broadsides.Crossings are often the best part of any journey, whether it's over a border or pass, or through straits. Humans have long known that such moments require the greatest concentration, for in those crossings comes the greatest danger \u2013 and the greatest pleasure. My favourites have always been mountain passes: the modest Lake District, or the dizzying Rockies or Himalayas.I was looking forward to my first journey over the Andes, and to this pass, from Purmamarca in Argentina to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile. I was expecting something special from the 10-hour bus ride. But I had not considered that a journey over a barrier like the Andes can take a traveller over subtler barriers too \u2013 like the one that separates you from the local culture.The woman across the aisle let out a howl of frustration: \"No signal!\" Along the deck, headphones were flung aside, screens tapped, phones raised. The bus kept grinding upwards and the temperature gauge settled for -10C. The sheets of ice had become storms of blinding white. Then, with a lurch, we stopped. Ahead of us a lorry was jammed into a bank of driven ice. There was no way past, and our coach could not reverse or turn around. I saw the driver, or one of his assistants, struggling through the blizzard.\"There's this girl I know on Facebook,\" said someone behind me, \"she was stuck for two days and then they went back to Purmamarca.\"This news caused alarm: \"They shouldn't allow the buses to go if it's dangerous!\" \"I've got a flight to catch.\"I pulled on my boots and jacket, grabbed my camera and set off to the lower deck. On the stairs the transition from tourism to adventure travel was drawing differing responses. A few passengers were embracing the excitement, but most were grim-faced. \"The toilet's blocked.\" \"I'm cold.\" We'd been stopped less than 10 minutes.Fortunately for me the adventure had started a day earlier and I was already in the mood. Sometimes a trip does that: jumbling any plans and demanding that you leap from tourist to traveller. My plan had read: \"Transfer by car from Salta to Purmamarca via the famous tourist attraction of Humahuaca Gorge, then take the bus across the Andes to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile.\" That was not exactly what had happened.I'd driven out of Salta early the previous morning with Edgar, my guide there. We were talking about the astonishing Museum of High Altitude Archaeology in the town square.\"It's still controversial with some people,\" Edgar had said. \"They don't like their ancestors to be disturbed.\"Five centuries ago the Incas, revering the eternal sun and the restless volcanoes, had sacrificed children by leaving them to die on the top of particular mountains.\"It's not a human sacrifice,\" said Edgar. \"Don't call it that.\"Their diminutive corpses were discovered in 1999 \u2013 preserved by severe cold and depleted oxygen \u2013 and removed to Salta. In the museum the story of how they came to be on a remote, 6,700m mountaintop builds to a remarkable moment of ghastly drama, when you come face to face with one of the children. It is a moving experience, giving a glimpse into ancient times, when people believed that mountains were living beings who made war on each other. In those times the few humans who passed that way came as supplicants, filled with a sense of awe and magic.\"Some people still revere the mountains,\" said Edgar. \"They wanted those children to be left alone.\"Edgar had been going to show me the gorge then drop me in Purmamarca, the last town before the high Andes, but after some hours we'd come to a long queue of traffic. A crowd of students had blocked the road, demanding that their half-built campus be completed. A tired government representative was negotiating. No one expected an early resolution.\"We could be sitting here for hours,\" I said. \"Can't we turn around and do something else?\"Edgar thought about it. \"I heard about a man who lives in the mountains \u2013 a veteran of the Malvinas war and a famous singer. They say he's got some kind of museum going.\"Here was a border that I'd been wanting to cross all the time I'd been in Argentina, the one that separates our Falklands war from their Guerra de las Malvinas, the barrier between Argentinian understanding and British. Here was the perfect opportunity to turn tourism into real travel.We drove back to the town of Tilcara for directions, then took a dirt track west into the Andean foothills, climbing a gorge past dry cliffs and stands of giant cactus. An electricity line led us to a shack in a grove of poplars. We parked and walked closer. A man appeared and beckoned to us.Nicolas Toconas proved to be a jovial middle-aged character who was building a palace for himself \"outside the system\". He showed us the half-finished living area, temporarily roofed by camouflage netting and tin. On the walls were photographs of his wartime experiences, which he began to explain in great detail.In Nicolas's war, the British had spectacularly failed to achieve any military objective. He had seen it with his own eyes: ships sunk, infantry attacks repelled, aircraft downed. In the end the \"colonialists\" had been bailed out by the Americans, who had then tricked the victorious Argentines into leaving. It was a cogent, believable account, a view of history I could never have found in Britain.Nicolas grinned at my reaction: \"Not the history you learned in school, is it?\" He took my arm. \"Let's forget about war. I want to show you something.\"He guided me through a doorway, and when my eyes had accustomed to the gloom, I looked in surprise at a kingsize bed covered in dark velvet, drapes hanging over ornamental mirrors and a vast karaoke system.\"Now, I will sing for you.\"He pulled out a microphone and a plasma screen came to life with a shot of a couple strolling on a beach. \"B\u00e9same, b\u00e9same mucho,\" crooned Nicolas in a voice as smooth as wild pampas honey. \"Como si fuera esta noche la \u00faltima vez.\"The song ended on an emotional warble, then Nicolas rummaged in a drawer and handed me a small circle of cloth. \"A souvenir for you!\" It was an Argentinian parachute regiment badge, decorated with a map of Las Malvinas.After sunset, Edgar dropped me in Purmamarca, in the Andean foothills. It's an attractive waystation, surrounded by cliffs and gorges in an astonishing variety of mineral colours. In the morning, I walked around the town to admire the multicoloured rocks in the rising sun. I sent Edgar a mental thank you for insisting I stop the night, then strolled to the bus stop.I had thought my adventure was over at that point, that being crooned to by a Falklands vet would be the high point. Five hours later, with the bus stuck in a blizzard at almost 5,000m, I was trying to open the outer door and take photographs.\"They won't let anyone out,\" said an American traveller. \"People would freeze to death.\"I tapped on the door that separated the passenger compartment from the driver's cab. There was no answer. I opened it and peeped inside. The cab was empty. Two steaming containers of mat\u00e9, the local tea, stood on the dashboard. Finding the outer door ajar, I pushed it open and stepped out and was struck by a blast of cold air. The driver came staggering across.\"Aha! You like our weather?\"The thermometer read -10C.\"With the wind, it is much worse. Here, come inside and drink mat\u00e9.\"We stepped back into the cab and he offered me the container of thick herbal goo, with an enamel straw. Mat\u00e9 is almost a way of life in parts of South America, a mildly addictive stimulant mashed from yerba leaves.I'd drunk it made from a teabag, without much pleasure, but this was my initiation by an aficionado. I sucked and got something like a slurp of sweet silage. The driver grinned. \"Good?\"I nodded. \"It's warm.\"Perhaps it was an acquired taste. I took another slug. Definitely silage.\"Will we be here long?\"He laughed. \"We are at almost 5,000m. Summer is short. We usually get through. They are trying to dig that truck out.\"I took another sip of mat\u00e9.\"This is the best road for seeing the Andes,\" he said. \"Even up here there are living creatures: vicu\u00f1as, rheas and vizcachas. But you know the mountains are alive, too.\"He pointed to the dark peaks just visible above us: one a classic cone, the other lower and less defined: \"That is Licancabur and next to him is his headless brother, Juriques. Both brothers were in love with another mountain, Quemal, but she loved only Juriques. She threw a rock at Licancabur but it missed and hit Juriques, knocking his head off. Now they stare at each other across the Atacama.\"\"Can mountains be in love?\"He laughed. \"Of course. And they can be angry \u2013 like today.\"I sucked on the silage, beginning to like the sweet grassy bitterness. The driver's assistants returned, blowing on their fingers and laughing. Ahead of us, the lorry's brake lights came on, then the vehicle shuddered and began to move forward.\"Licancabur has decided that we can pass,\" said the driver.It was over. We were not going to be modern sacrifices, entombed in some future museum, still clutching our votive digital gadgets. We were simply travellers on one of the world's most magnificent bus rides.I made my way back to my seat. As we started, the passengers relaxed. The Australian girl next to me laughed. \"I can't wait to post this on Facebook.\" Others put their headphones back in, but most were notably more attentive to their surroundings. Perhaps this was all the mountains had wanted.In a few minutes we had cleared the blizzard, the sky became deep tranquil blue again and away to our right were the brothers, the two magnificent volcanic cones. As our crossing of the Andes ended, this panorama opened out to reveal a staggering array of snow-capped mountains to north and south. All of them, I guessed, alive with their own stories, should any traveller care to listen.The tripThis trip was provided by Sumak Travel (020 3642 4246, sumak-travel.org) a specialist in community-based ecotourism. A 20-day private tour, including Buenos Aires, the Iguazu Falls, rural tourism in Salta, the Quebrada de Humahuaca, Atacama desert and Santiago, costs from \u00a33,180pp, including accommodation, guided activities and excursions, all breakfasts and most other meals, transfers and contributions to the social projects visited, but not international flightsGetting there Flights were provided by Netflights (0844 692 6792, netflights.com), which has return flights to from London to Buenos Aires with KLM from \u00a3699Further information Rail Travel Grand Central (0844 811 0071 grandcentralrail.com) provided transport between York and London. Advance tickets from \u00a313.60", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Travel", "South America holidays", "Road trips", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Crossing the Andes: breaking borders on a stormy mountain bus ride between Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2013-09-13T17:24:51Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Lewd, shrewd and often witheringly funny, Chile's leading satirical magazine has proved itself again this week as the country's most distinctive media voice and a symbol of how far the nation has opened up in the post-Pinochet era.Founded in 1998 and named after the Harley Street consultancy where General Augusto Pinochet was arrested that year, The Clinic has developed from an underground pamphlet into the most popular magazine in the country \u2013 and one of Latin America's fastest growing news websites.Like the Onion, it is characterised by irreverent humour and a strong sense of the absurd. Like Private Eye, it combines parody with in-depth investigations and a provocative analysis of current affairs. But The Clinic goes further than both in its use of profanity and outrageously Photoshopped images.The cover for this week's 40th anniversary of the coup that brought Pinochet to power was typically eye-catching: a montage of the face of the dictator on the body and uniform of Fidel Castro. Inside were the usual mix of poems, photos, sex confessions, cartoons that mock leading politicians, the Catholic Church and mainstream newspapers. As has been the case since the magazine's origins, Pinochet is the butt of most jokes with comic strips of him as a Pinocchio doll - the lying puppet of US president Richard Nixon - and a mock-up of some of the things he might be doing if he were alive today (for example tweeting: \"If you don't follow me, I will send the secret police to your home).But there is more to the content than a send-up. In the past week The Clinic has led much of the serious coverage of the anniversary with the publication of a 68-page special issue and hundreds of articles, including investigative pieces that exposed torturers, probed the legacy of the coup and provoked debate on how much further democracy needs to progress in Chile.The Clinic itself is testimony to the transformation that has occurred in the past two decades. It traces its origins to a heated discussion over wine and pasta in the Da Noi restaurant in Santiago in October 1998 between a group of friends who were furious at the domestic media's timid coverage of Pinochet's arrest in London. They decided to create their own vehicle.Initially deemed \"more of an art project than a newspaper\", the first few editions were produced clandestinely and circulated for free in coffee shops and bars in Santiago. The operation moved to a semi-commercial footing soon after with distribution through the many news kiosks in the downtown area, paid for by the three founders - Patricio Fernandez, Paul Dittborn and Mario Lobo - who each put up $2,000. It was a risky venture. Pinochet had stepped down several years earlier, but his shadow continued to loom large over Chile. The country had yet to pass a divorce law, TV program makers had to keep the censors happy, and there was little nightlife in Santiago.\"At that time the nation was ultra-conservative and there was a lot of self-censorship,\" Fernandez told the Guardian. \"There were many issues that no one dared to mention and pubic debate was restricted. Our publication came along as a disruptive presence. Some called us 'immoral', others 'terrorists'. But for many more, we were a liberating force.\"Back then, The Clinic was a thin bimonthly with an initial print run of just 13,000 copies. More than 500 editions later, it is now a weekly with almost 140,000 readers, 458,000 Twitter followers and a website with more than 3 million unique visitors a month \u2013 a notable achievement in a nation of 17.4 million people.Since 2005 it has been the best selling magazine in Chile and it has inspired several imitators in the Spanish-speaking world.The anti-establishment organ still struggles to secure advertising from large companies, but history seems to be on its side. The media and political environment have changed enormously since The Clinic began operating. Caution about criticising Pinochet or delving into the dark secrets of his dictatorship has faded. Last week's most popular TV show wasCaravan of Death, about the military hit squads that travelled by helicopter to round up and execute political opponents in the wake of the 1973 coup.Echoes of the magazine's absurdist humour can also be seen in the creative forms of protest used by students in their ongoing battle for education reform. Past demonstrations include a mass Michael Jackson-style zombie , dance and a 15-minute kissathon, a non-stop running relay around the presidential palace and the participation of lipstick-wearing high school transvestites known as the Whores of Babylon.\"Culturally speaking, Chile has undergone an important process of opening,\" says Fernandez. \"I would say that the key moment for this openness was the arrest of Pinochet in London. I guess The Clinic helped a lot too, but I'd say our magazine was also a consequence of the liberating trends that led to his arrest. We are now seeing another generation, more rock-and-roll, less mournful and infinitely more brazen than those who were scared with the mental wounds of the past.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media"], "title": "Chile finds its voice in The Clinic satirical magazine"},{"date": "2013-07-09T09:24:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Nick MacWilliam is a Santiago-based immigrant Londoner and freelance writer. He is the editor of Revista Revolver, an online magazine devoted to Chile's alternative and independent cultural scene. He is also a regular contributor to Sounds and Colours, and various other websites and magazines that cover South America.If there's a cinema you'd like to tell us about for a future Cine-files, email adam.boult@guardian.co.uk.In downtown Santiago three blocks directly south of Chile's presidential palace, La Moneda, most famous internationally for being the site of Pinochet's military coup against the socialist government of Salvador Allende. This is the Normandie's second home after it started life in Santiago's main thoroughfare, the Alameda, in 1982, before moving to the current spot in 1991. The original venue is now home to another local institution, the Centro Arte Alameda, a cinema, music venue and gallery. The cinema occupies a shabby, older block that it shares with small shops and flats (the Normandie's neon sign is literally hanging on the outside of someone's bedroom window) and which is resisting the construction surge that has transformed Santiago in recent times. All around, nondescript tower blocks are being built as the centre rapidly loses its historical identity in the name of progress. The interior is like a throwback to another age: the brass and chrome-plated foyer, the one-clerk box office, the retro wallpaper. The cinema's only screen is located in a cavernous auditorium where the padded wooden seats and bare floors keep the temperature down: a welcome escape during Santiago's baking summer months; but in winter you'll probably want to keep your coat on. All sorts of people come through the doors, ranging from the older filmgoers who've been frequenting the Normandie for over 30 years to the inhabitants of Santiago's modern hipster scene. Other indie cinemas such as the Bi\u00f3grafo and the Alameda are situated in more fashionable areas, but the Normandie's prestige and diversity ensure that it still attracts the cool crowd. There are also matinee screenings that bring in kids and their parents, while the high residential population of the city centre ensures that there is a strong local customer base.The name comes from the early days when the Normandie featured a lot of French films; these days it focuses more on Latin American cinema and the thriving national film industry, with a clear emphasis on providing an outlet for films ignored by the multiplex chains. There are usually one or two Chilean films on show plus something foreign, whether this is arthouse European fare, Asian epics or the more \"independent\" side of Hollywood, such as Silver Linings Playbook. Recent Chilean Oscar-nomination No enjoyed a longer run here than in any other cinema. There are also sometimes midnight horror screenings.The Normandie is enshrined in Santiago cultural folklore due to its symbolism as a place of artistic and political refuge during the dictatorship. The authorities viewed it as a site of potential subversion and there were cases of the police entering in order to arrest members of the audience. It has been namechecked by seminal 80s new wavers Los Prisoneros in the song Porque No Se Van (Why Don't You Go?). The cinema featured in No director Pablo Larra\u00edn's earlier film Tony Manero, where the psychopathic John Travolta-idolising protagonist beats the elderly projectionist to death for having the temerity to show the scheduled film rather than Saturday Night Fever. As you do.", "tags": ["Film", "Culture", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Cine-files: Cine Arte Normandie, Santiago de Chile"},{"date": "2013-09-10T12:59:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The wind, unusually, is from the Andes and Valdivia is basking in sun. There is an almost physical lifting of the spirits in this break from the seemingly interminable winter rains and fogs and Valdivians are enjoying their costanera, the promenade along the Calle Calle river.Out on the water the crews from Valdivia's several rowing clubs are exercising against a dramatic backdrop of shipyards. Even the street dogs, perros callejeros, that are a feature of Chile's towns are in amiable mood.The fine weather provides the perfect invitation to begin Sunday lunch with a pisco sour. No meal out in Chile feels complete unless it starts with the rattle of the cocktail shaker for this tangy aperitif, the origins of which are claimed equally by Chile and Peru. Should, however, the palate require some other stimulation, an honourable local alternative is one of the excellent Valdivian beers, a legacy of the 19th-century German settlement in the area.My plate of grilled conger eel is perfect and comes from the colourful fish and vegetable market a few metres from the restaurant. An almost obligatory post-prandial activity is to saunter through this riverside attraction, watching pelicans, vultures, hawks, cormorants and gulls vie with sea lions for the fishy scraps discarded in the river as unsuitable for humans.The sea lions pose on the concrete steps at the edge of the water with their heads in the air as if oh-so bored with life. \"Another fish head? Oh I suppose I have to.\"A few minutes further along the river is one of the watch towers, or torreones, from the Spanish colonial period, part of the city's defences against both foreign threat and the indigenous Mapuche nation. Valdivia was an important stronghold. In 1820, though, the nascent Chilean navy, under the command of a Scot, Lord Thomas Cochrane, stormed the forts to gain a famous victory that effectively ended Spanish power in the south. Cochrane provided a model for CS Forester's fictitious hero Horatio Hornblower and he is celebrated in Chile through many a street name and even a town.Today the forts can be visited with a pleasant river cruise that includes lunch and, of course, a pisco sour.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Chile", "Food and drink"], "title": "Letter from Chile: a taste of history"},{"date": "2013-09-19T20:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "On the upper deck of the trans-Andes bus, the gap-year backpackers from every advanced economy of the globe did not appreciate the danger we were in. Not yet. When I looked back from my seat at the front, I saw that many of them were busy with iPads and iPhones, a few were asleep and the rest were chatting.No one was watching the digital display that recorded the outside temperature. It had been falling ever since we left behind the last human habitation, in Argentina. Now it was below zero and still dropping. Rolling sheets of ice particles were scouring the road, while the midday sky remained an imperturbable blue.We had spent several hours winding westwards towards Chile, up into inhospitable realms, passing vast salt lakes presided over by snow-capped peaks and seeing signs of life disappear. Now there were no more vicu\u00f1a and guanaco, the wild llamas of the Andes, no suri, the giant flightless bird. At 4,800m, even the golden tussock grass had given up and there was nothing, only the jagged peaks rising from a barren plain. The bus lowed, then gave a shudder as an icy blast hit it broadsides.Crossings are often the best part of any journey, whether it's over a border or pass, or through straits. Humans have long known that such moments require the greatest concentration, for in those crossings comes the greatest danger \u2013 and the greatest pleasure. My favourites have always been mountain passes: the modest Lake District, or the dizzying Rockies or Himalayas.I was looking forward to my first journey over the Andes, and to this pass, from Purmamarca in Argentina to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile. I was expecting something special from the 10-hour bus ride. But I had not considered that a journey over a barrier like the Andes can take a traveller over subtler barriers too \u2013 like the one that separates you from the local culture.The woman across the aisle let out a howl of frustration: \"No signal!\" Along the deck, headphones were flung aside, screens tapped, phones raised. The bus kept grinding upwards and the temperature gauge settled for -10C. The sheets of ice had become storms of blinding white. Then, with a lurch, we stopped. Ahead of us a lorry was jammed into a bank of driven ice. There was no way past, and our coach could not reverse or turn around. I saw the driver, or one of his assistants, struggling through the blizzard.\"There's this girl I know on Facebook,\" said someone behind me, \"she was stuck for two days and then they went back to Purmamarca.\"This news caused alarm: \"They shouldn't allow the buses to go if it's dangerous!\" \"I've got a flight to catch.\"I pulled on my boots and jacket, grabbed my camera and set off to the lower deck. On the stairs the transition from tourism to adventure travel was drawing differing responses. A few passengers were embracing the excitement, but most were grim-faced. \"The toilet's blocked.\" \"I'm cold.\" We'd been stopped less than 10 minutes.Fortunately for me the adventure had started a day earlier and I was already in the mood. Sometimes a trip does that: jumbling any plans and demanding that you leap from tourist to traveller. My plan had read: \"Transfer by car from Salta to Purmamarca via the famous tourist attraction of Humahuaca Gorge, then take the bus across the Andes to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile.\" That was not exactly what had happened.I'd driven out of Salta early the previous morning with Edgar, my guide there. We were talking about the astonishing Museum of High Altitude Archaeology in the town square.\"It's still controversial with some people,\" Edgar had said. \"They don't like their ancestors to be disturbed.\"Five centuries ago the Incas, revering the eternal sun and the restless volcanoes, had sacrificed children by leaving them to die on the top of particular mountains.\"It's not a human sacrifice,\" said Edgar. \"Don't call it that.\"Their diminutive corpses were discovered in 1999 \u2013 preserved by severe cold and depleted oxygen \u2013 and removed to Salta. In the museum the story of how they came to be on a remote, 6,700m mountaintop builds to a remarkable moment of ghastly drama, when you come face to face with one of the children. It is a moving experience, giving a glimpse into ancient times, when people believed that mountains were living beings who made war on each other. In those times the few humans who passed that way came as supplicants, filled with a sense of awe and magic.\"Some people still revere the mountains,\" said Edgar. \"They wanted those children to be left alone.\"Edgar had been going to show me the gorge then drop me in Purmamarca, the last town before the high Andes, but after some hours we'd come to a long queue of traffic. A crowd of students had blocked the road, demanding that their half-built campus be completed. A tired government representative was negotiating. No one expected an early resolution.\"We could be sitting here for hours,\" I said. \"Can't we turn around and do something else?\"Edgar thought about it. \"I heard about a man who lives in the mountains \u2013 a veteran of the Malvinas war and a famous singer. They say he's got some kind of museum going.\"Here was a border that I'd been wanting to cross all the time I'd been in Argentina, the one that separates our Falklands war from their Guerra de las Malvinas, the barrier between Argentinian understanding and British. Here was the perfect opportunity to turn tourism into real travel.We drove back to the town of Tilcara for directions, then took a dirt track west into the Andean foothills, climbing a gorge past dry cliffs and stands of giant cactus. An electricity line led us to a shack in a grove of poplars. We parked and walked closer. A man appeared and beckoned to us.Nicolas Toconas proved to be a jovial middle-aged character who was building a palace for himself \"outside the system\". He showed us the half-finished living area, temporarily roofed by camouflage netting and tin. On the walls were photographs of his wartime experiences, which he began to explain in great detail.In Nicolas's war, the British had spectacularly failed to achieve any military objective. He had seen it with his own eyes: ships sunk, infantry attacks repelled, aircraft downed. In the end the \"colonialists\" had been bailed out by the Americans, who had then tricked the victorious Argentines into leaving. It was a cogent, believable account, a view of history I could never have found in Britain.Nicolas grinned at my reaction: \"Not the history you learned in school, is it?\" He took my arm. \"Let's forget about war. I want to show you something.\"He guided me through a doorway, and when my eyes had accustomed to the gloom, I looked in surprise at a kingsize bed covered in dark velvet, drapes hanging over ornamental mirrors and a vast karaoke system.\"Now, I will sing for you.\"He pulled out a microphone and a plasma screen came to life with a shot of a couple strolling on a beach. \"B\u00e9same, b\u00e9same mucho,\" crooned Nicolas in a voice as smooth as wild pampas honey. \"Como si fuera esta noche la \u00faltima vez.\"The song ended on an emotional warble, then Nicolas rummaged in a drawer and handed me a small circle of cloth. \"A souvenir for you!\" It was an Argentinian parachute regiment badge, decorated with a map of Las Malvinas.After sunset, Edgar dropped me in Purmamarca, in the Andean foothills. It's an attractive waystation, surrounded by cliffs and gorges in an astonishing variety of mineral colours. In the morning, I walked around the town to admire the multicoloured rocks in the rising sun. I sent Edgar a mental thank you for insisting I stop the night, then strolled to the bus stop.I had thought my adventure was over at that point, that being crooned to by a Falklands vet would be the high point. Five hours later, with the bus stuck in a blizzard at almost 5,000m, I was trying to open the outer door and take photographs.\"They won't let anyone out,\" said an American traveller. \"People would freeze to death.\"I tapped on the door that separated the passenger compartment from the driver's cab. There was no answer. I opened it and peeped inside. The cab was empty. Two steaming containers of mat\u00e9, the local tea, stood on the dashboard. Finding the outer door ajar, I pushed it open and stepped out and was struck by a blast of cold air. The driver came staggering across.\"Aha! You like our weather?\"The thermometer read -10C.\"With the wind, it is much worse. Here, come inside and drink mat\u00e9.\"We stepped back into the cab and he offered me the container of thick herbal goo, with an enamel straw. Mat\u00e9 is almost a way of life in parts of South America, a mildly addictive stimulant mashed from yerba leaves.I'd drunk it made from a teabag, without much pleasure, but this was my initiation by an aficionado. I sucked and got something like a slurp of sweet silage. The driver grinned. \"Good?\"I nodded. \"It's warm.\"Perhaps it was an acquired taste. I took another slug. Definitely silage.\"Will we be here long?\"He laughed. \"We are at almost 5,000m. Summer is short. We usually get through. They are trying to dig that truck out.\"I took another sip of mat\u00e9.\"This is the best road for seeing the Andes,\" he said. \"Even up here there are living creatures: vicu\u00f1as, rheas and vizcachas. But you know the mountains are alive, too.\"He pointed to the dark peaks just visible above us: one a classic cone, the other lower and less defined: \"That is Licancabur and next to him is his headless brother, Juriques. Both brothers were in love with another mountain, Quemal, but she loved only Juriques. She threw a rock at Licancabur but it missed and hit Juriques, knocking his head off. Now they stare at each other across the Atacama.\"\"Can mountains be in love?\"He laughed. \"Of course. And they can be angry \u2013 like today.\"I sucked on the silage, beginning to like the sweet grassy bitterness. The driver's assistants returned, blowing on their fingers and laughing. Ahead of us, the lorry's brake lights came on, then the vehicle shuddered and began to move forward.\"Licancabur has decided that we can pass,\" said the driver.It was over. We were not going to be modern sacrifices, entombed in some future museum, still clutching our votive digital gadgets. We were simply travellers on one of the world's most magnificent bus rides.I made my way back to my seat. As we started, the passengers relaxed. The Australian girl next to me laughed. \"I can't wait to post this on Facebook.\" Others put their headphones back in, but most were notably more attentive to their surroundings. Perhaps this was all the mountains had wanted.In a few minutes we had cleared the blizzard, the sky became deep tranquil blue again and away to our right were the brothers, the two magnificent volcanic cones. As our crossing of the Andes ended, this panorama opened out to reveal a staggering array of snow-capped mountains to north and south. All of them, I guessed, alive with their own stories, should any traveller care to listen.The tripThis trip was provided by Sumak Travel (020 3642 4246, sumak-travel.org) a specialist in community-based ecotourism. A 20-day private tour, including Buenos Aires, the Iguazu Falls, rural tourism in Salta, the Quebrada de Humahuaca, Atacama desert and Santiago, costs from \u00a33,180pp, including accommodation, guided activities and excursions, all breakfasts and most other meals, transfers and contributions to the social projects visited, but not international flightsGetting there Flights were provided by Netflights (0844 692 6792, netflights.com), which has return flights to from London to Buenos Aires with KLM from \u00a3699Further information Rail Travel Grand Central (0844 811 0071 grandcentralrail.com) provided transport between York and London. Advance tickets from \u00a313.60", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Travel", "South America holidays", "Road trips", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Crossing the Andes: breaking borders on a stormy mountain bus ride between Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2013-09-13T17:24:51Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Lewd, shrewd and often witheringly funny, Chile's leading satirical magazine has proved itself again this week as the country's most distinctive media voice and a symbol of how far the nation has opened up in the post-Pinochet era.Founded in 1998 and named after the Harley Street consultancy where General Augusto Pinochet was arrested that year, The Clinic has developed from an underground pamphlet into the most popular magazine in the country \u2013 and one of Latin America's fastest growing news websites.Like the Onion, it is characterised by irreverent humour and a strong sense of the absurd. Like Private Eye, it combines parody with in-depth investigations and a provocative analysis of current affairs. But The Clinic goes further than both in its use of profanity and outrageously Photoshopped images.The cover for this week's 40th anniversary of the coup that brought Pinochet to power was typically eye-catching: a montage of the face of the dictator on the body and uniform of Fidel Castro. Inside were the usual mix of poems, photos, sex confessions, cartoons that mock leading politicians, the Catholic Church and mainstream newspapers. As has been the case since the magazine's origins, Pinochet is the butt of most jokes with comic strips of him as a Pinocchio doll - the lying puppet of US president Richard Nixon - and a mock-up of some of the things he might be doing if he were alive today (for example tweeting: \"If you don't follow me, I will send the secret police to your home).But there is more to the content than a send-up. In the past week The Clinic has led much of the serious coverage of the anniversary with the publication of a 68-page special issue and hundreds of articles, including investigative pieces that exposed torturers, probed the legacy of the coup and provoked debate on how much further democracy needs to progress in Chile.The Clinic itself is testimony to the transformation that has occurred in the past two decades. It traces its origins to a heated discussion over wine and pasta in the Da Noi restaurant in Santiago in October 1998 between a group of friends who were furious at the domestic media's timid coverage of Pinochet's arrest in London. They decided to create their own vehicle.Initially deemed \"more of an art project than a newspaper\", the first few editions were produced clandestinely and circulated for free in coffee shops and bars in Santiago. The operation moved to a semi-commercial footing soon after with distribution through the many news kiosks in the downtown area, paid for by the three founders - Patricio Fernandez, Paul Dittborn and Mario Lobo - who each put up $2,000. It was a risky venture. Pinochet had stepped down several years earlier, but his shadow continued to loom large over Chile. The country had yet to pass a divorce law, TV program makers had to keep the censors happy, and there was little nightlife in Santiago.\"At that time the nation was ultra-conservative and there was a lot of self-censorship,\" Fernandez told the Guardian. \"There were many issues that no one dared to mention and pubic debate was restricted. Our publication came along as a disruptive presence. Some called us 'immoral', others 'terrorists'. But for many more, we were a liberating force.\"Back then, The Clinic was a thin bimonthly with an initial print run of just 13,000 copies. More than 500 editions later, it is now a weekly with almost 140,000 readers, 458,000 Twitter followers and a website with more than 3 million unique visitors a month \u2013 a notable achievement in a nation of 17.4 million people.Since 2005 it has been the best selling magazine in Chile and it has inspired several imitators in the Spanish-speaking world.The anti-establishment organ still struggles to secure advertising from large companies, but history seems to be on its side. The media and political environment have changed enormously since The Clinic began operating. Caution about criticising Pinochet or delving into the dark secrets of his dictatorship has faded. Last week's most popular TV show wasCaravan of Death, about the military hit squads that travelled by helicopter to round up and execute political opponents in the wake of the 1973 coup.Echoes of the magazine's absurdist humour can also be seen in the creative forms of protest used by students in their ongoing battle for education reform. Past demonstrations include a mass Michael Jackson-style zombie , dance and a 15-minute kissathon, a non-stop running relay around the presidential palace and the participation of lipstick-wearing high school transvestites known as the Whores of Babylon.\"Culturally speaking, Chile has undergone an important process of opening,\" says Fernandez. \"I would say that the key moment for this openness was the arrest of Pinochet in London. I guess The Clinic helped a lot too, but I'd say our magazine was also a consequence of the liberating trends that led to his arrest. We are now seeing another generation, more rock-and-roll, less mournful and infinitely more brazen than those who were scared with the mental wounds of the past.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media"], "title": "Chile finds its voice in The Clinic satirical magazine"},{"date": "2013-07-09T09:24:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Nick MacWilliam is a Santiago-based immigrant Londoner and freelance writer. He is the editor of Revista Revolver, an online magazine devoted to Chile's alternative and independent cultural scene. He is also a regular contributor to Sounds and Colours, and various other websites and magazines that cover South America.If there's a cinema you'd like to tell us about for a future Cine-files, email adam.boult@guardian.co.uk.In downtown Santiago three blocks directly south of Chile's presidential palace, La Moneda, most famous internationally for being the site of Pinochet's military coup against the socialist government of Salvador Allende. This is the Normandie's second home after it started life in Santiago's main thoroughfare, the Alameda, in 1982, before moving to the current spot in 1991. The original venue is now home to another local institution, the Centro Arte Alameda, a cinema, music venue and gallery. The cinema occupies a shabby, older block that it shares with small shops and flats (the Normandie's neon sign is literally hanging on the outside of someone's bedroom window) and which is resisting the construction surge that has transformed Santiago in recent times. All around, nondescript tower blocks are being built as the centre rapidly loses its historical identity in the name of progress. The interior is like a throwback to another age: the brass and chrome-plated foyer, the one-clerk box office, the retro wallpaper. The cinema's only screen is located in a cavernous auditorium where the padded wooden seats and bare floors keep the temperature down: a welcome escape during Santiago's baking summer months; but in winter you'll probably want to keep your coat on. All sorts of people come through the doors, ranging from the older filmgoers who've been frequenting the Normandie for over 30 years to the inhabitants of Santiago's modern hipster scene. Other indie cinemas such as the Bi\u00f3grafo and the Alameda are situated in more fashionable areas, but the Normandie's prestige and diversity ensure that it still attracts the cool crowd. There are also matinee screenings that bring in kids and their parents, while the high residential population of the city centre ensures that there is a strong local customer base.The name comes from the early days when the Normandie featured a lot of French films; these days it focuses more on Latin American cinema and the thriving national film industry, with a clear emphasis on providing an outlet for films ignored by the multiplex chains. There are usually one or two Chilean films on show plus something foreign, whether this is arthouse European fare, Asian epics or the more \"independent\" side of Hollywood, such as Silver Linings Playbook. Recent Chilean Oscar-nomination No enjoyed a longer run here than in any other cinema. There are also sometimes midnight horror screenings.The Normandie is enshrined in Santiago cultural folklore due to its symbolism as a place of artistic and political refuge during the dictatorship. The authorities viewed it as a site of potential subversion and there were cases of the police entering in order to arrest members of the audience. It has been namechecked by seminal 80s new wavers Los Prisoneros in the song Porque No Se Van (Why Don't You Go?). The cinema featured in No director Pablo Larra\u00edn's earlier film Tony Manero, where the psychopathic John Travolta-idolising protagonist beats the elderly projectionist to death for having the temerity to show the scheduled film rather than Saturday Night Fever. As you do.", "tags": ["Film", "Culture", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Cine-files: Cine Arte Normandie, Santiago de Chile"},{"date": "2013-08-06T06:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The World Cup kicks off in June 2014, and though plenty of fans will travel independently, many tour operators have packages to make things easier (though more expensive). Journey Latin America has limited availability on its World Cup trip, arriving in Rio on 7 June for three nights, then including Igua\u00e7u Falls, Manaus and the Amazon, Salvador and Praia do Forte. The trip coincides with games in Manaus and Salvador, so the atmosphere will be great in those cities, and travellers can apply to buy game tickets through the official Fifa website from 20 August. The holiday costs from \u00a34,295pp for 15 days, excluding international flights.Between July and November each year, whales congregate off the Colombian Pacific coast to breed. The appearance of humpbacks is an increasingly popular attraction, seen on boat trips and by scuba diving. Chameleon Travel has a new 13-day trip that takes in the country coast to coast, incorporating two days of whale watching, a visit to Chicamocha canyon and two days on the remote Caribbean island of Providencia, from \u00a32,995 including international flights.Those who've already been to South America but want something more challenging and wildlife-focused could explore Guyana, a little-visited, deep-jungle destination that's amazing for nature spotting. Free of typical tourist infrastructure, visitors will experience mountains, savannah and jungle-canopy walkways, and may spot exotic birds, caiman, giant river otters \u2013 and, if they're lucky, jaguars \u2013 and learn about local life from Amerindians. G Adventures is offering 25% off one trip for this autumn, now \u00a31,762pp (was \u00a32,349pp), departing 1\u00a0September 2013 for 12 days, excluding international flights.The highlights of central and southern Chile are covered in a new \"complete Chilean Patagonia\" trip with Rainbow Tours. It follows a few relaxing days in Santiago with a flight south to the forested and hilly island of Chilo\u00e9, for hiking and horse riding. Then it's off to the Lake District and the Torres del Paine national park. From \u00a34,095pp for 13 days, including international flights and some meals.", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Brazil holidays", "Colombia holidays", "Guyana holidays", "Chile holidays", "World Cup 2014", "Wildlife holidays", "Walking holidays", "Travel", "Football"], "title": "South America: new package tours for 2013/14"},{"date": "2013-09-10T12:59:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The wind, unusually, is from the Andes and Valdivia is basking in sun. There is an almost physical lifting of the spirits in this break from the seemingly interminable winter rains and fogs and Valdivians are enjoying their costanera, the promenade along the Calle Calle river.Out on the water the crews from Valdivia's several rowing clubs are exercising against a dramatic backdrop of shipyards. Even the street dogs, perros callejeros, that are a feature of Chile's towns are in amiable mood.The fine weather provides the perfect invitation to begin Sunday lunch with a pisco sour. No meal out in Chile feels complete unless it starts with the rattle of the cocktail shaker for this tangy aperitif, the origins of which are claimed equally by Chile and Peru. Should, however, the palate require some other stimulation, an honourable local alternative is one of the excellent Valdivian beers, a legacy of the 19th-century German settlement in the area.My plate of grilled conger eel is perfect and comes from the colourful fish and vegetable market a few metres from the restaurant. An almost obligatory post-prandial activity is to saunter through this riverside attraction, watching pelicans, vultures, hawks, cormorants and gulls vie with sea lions for the fishy scraps discarded in the river as unsuitable for humans.The sea lions pose on the concrete steps at the edge of the water with their heads in the air as if oh-so bored with life. \"Another fish head? Oh I suppose I have to.\"A few minutes further along the river is one of the watch towers, or torreones, from the Spanish colonial period, part of the city's defences against both foreign threat and the indigenous Mapuche nation. Valdivia was an important stronghold. In 1820, though, the nascent Chilean navy, under the command of a Scot, Lord Thomas Cochrane, stormed the forts to gain a famous victory that effectively ended Spanish power in the south. Cochrane provided a model for CS Forester's fictitious hero Horatio Hornblower and he is celebrated in Chile through many a street name and even a town.Today the forts can be visited with a pleasant river cruise that includes lunch and, of course, a pisco sour.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Chile", "Food and drink"], "title": "Letter from Chile: a taste of history"},{"date": "2013-09-19T20:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "On the upper deck of the trans-Andes bus, the gap-year backpackers from every advanced economy of the globe did not appreciate the danger we were in. Not yet. When I looked back from my seat at the front, I saw that many of them were busy with iPads and iPhones, a few were asleep and the rest were chatting.No one was watching the digital display that recorded the outside temperature. It had been falling ever since we left behind the last human habitation, in Argentina. Now it was below zero and still dropping. Rolling sheets of ice particles were scouring the road, while the midday sky remained an imperturbable blue.We had spent several hours winding westwards towards Chile, up into inhospitable realms, passing vast salt lakes presided over by snow-capped peaks and seeing signs of life disappear. Now there were no more vicu\u00f1a and guanaco, the wild llamas of the Andes, no suri, the giant flightless bird. At 4,800m, even the golden tussock grass had given up and there was nothing, only the jagged peaks rising from a barren plain. The bus lowed, then gave a shudder as an icy blast hit it broadsides.Crossings are often the best part of any journey, whether it's over a border or pass, or through straits. Humans have long known that such moments require the greatest concentration, for in those crossings comes the greatest danger \u2013 and the greatest pleasure. My favourites have always been mountain passes: the modest Lake District, or the dizzying Rockies or Himalayas.I was looking forward to my first journey over the Andes, and to this pass, from Purmamarca in Argentina to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile. I was expecting something special from the 10-hour bus ride. But I had not considered that a journey over a barrier like the Andes can take a traveller over subtler barriers too \u2013 like the one that separates you from the local culture.The woman across the aisle let out a howl of frustration: \"No signal!\" Along the deck, headphones were flung aside, screens tapped, phones raised. The bus kept grinding upwards and the temperature gauge settled for -10C. The sheets of ice had become storms of blinding white. Then, with a lurch, we stopped. Ahead of us a lorry was jammed into a bank of driven ice. There was no way past, and our coach could not reverse or turn around. I saw the driver, or one of his assistants, struggling through the blizzard.\"There's this girl I know on Facebook,\" said someone behind me, \"she was stuck for two days and then they went back to Purmamarca.\"This news caused alarm: \"They shouldn't allow the buses to go if it's dangerous!\" \"I've got a flight to catch.\"I pulled on my boots and jacket, grabbed my camera and set off to the lower deck. On the stairs the transition from tourism to adventure travel was drawing differing responses. A few passengers were embracing the excitement, but most were grim-faced. \"The toilet's blocked.\" \"I'm cold.\" We'd been stopped less than 10 minutes.Fortunately for me the adventure had started a day earlier and I was already in the mood. Sometimes a trip does that: jumbling any plans and demanding that you leap from tourist to traveller. My plan had read: \"Transfer by car from Salta to Purmamarca via the famous tourist attraction of Humahuaca Gorge, then take the bus across the Andes to San Pedro de Atacama in Chile.\" That was not exactly what had happened.I'd driven out of Salta early the previous morning with Edgar, my guide there. We were talking about the astonishing Museum of High Altitude Archaeology in the town square.\"It's still controversial with some people,\" Edgar had said. \"They don't like their ancestors to be disturbed.\"Five centuries ago the Incas, revering the eternal sun and the restless volcanoes, had sacrificed children by leaving them to die on the top of particular mountains.\"It's not a human sacrifice,\" said Edgar. \"Don't call it that.\"Their diminutive corpses were discovered in 1999 \u2013 preserved by severe cold and depleted oxygen \u2013 and removed to Salta. In the museum the story of how they came to be on a remote, 6,700m mountaintop builds to a remarkable moment of ghastly drama, when you come face to face with one of the children. It is a moving experience, giving a glimpse into ancient times, when people believed that mountains were living beings who made war on each other. In those times the few humans who passed that way came as supplicants, filled with a sense of awe and magic.\"Some people still revere the mountains,\" said Edgar. \"They wanted those children to be left alone.\"Edgar had been going to show me the gorge then drop me in Purmamarca, the last town before the high Andes, but after some hours we'd come to a long queue of traffic. A crowd of students had blocked the road, demanding that their half-built campus be completed. A tired government representative was negotiating. No one expected an early resolution.\"We could be sitting here for hours,\" I said. \"Can't we turn around and do something else?\"Edgar thought about it. \"I heard about a man who lives in the mountains \u2013 a veteran of the Malvinas war and a famous singer. They say he's got some kind of museum going.\"Here was a border that I'd been wanting to cross all the time I'd been in Argentina, the one that separates our Falklands war from their Guerra de las Malvinas, the barrier between Argentinian understanding and British. Here was the perfect opportunity to turn tourism into real travel.We drove back to the town of Tilcara for directions, then took a dirt track west into the Andean foothills, climbing a gorge past dry cliffs and stands of giant cactus. An electricity line led us to a shack in a grove of poplars. We parked and walked closer. A man appeared and beckoned to us.Nicolas Toconas proved to be a jovial middle-aged character who was building a palace for himself \"outside the system\". He showed us the half-finished living area, temporarily roofed by camouflage netting and tin. On the walls were photographs of his wartime experiences, which he began to explain in great detail.In Nicolas's war, the British had spectacularly failed to achieve any military objective. He had seen it with his own eyes: ships sunk, infantry attacks repelled, aircraft downed. In the end the \"colonialists\" had been bailed out by the Americans, who had then tricked the victorious Argentines into leaving. It was a cogent, believable account, a view of history I could never have found in Britain.Nicolas grinned at my reaction: \"Not the history you learned in school, is it?\" He took my arm. \"Let's forget about war. I want to show you something.\"He guided me through a doorway, and when my eyes had accustomed to the gloom, I looked in surprise at a kingsize bed covered in dark velvet, drapes hanging over ornamental mirrors and a vast karaoke system.\"Now, I will sing for you.\"He pulled out a microphone and a plasma screen came to life with a shot of a couple strolling on a beach. \"B\u00e9same, b\u00e9same mucho,\" crooned Nicolas in a voice as smooth as wild pampas honey. \"Como si fuera esta noche la \u00faltima vez.\"The song ended on an emotional warble, then Nicolas rummaged in a drawer and handed me a small circle of cloth. \"A souvenir for you!\" It was an Argentinian parachute regiment badge, decorated with a map of Las Malvinas.After sunset, Edgar dropped me in Purmamarca, in the Andean foothills. It's an attractive waystation, surrounded by cliffs and gorges in an astonishing variety of mineral colours. In the morning, I walked around the town to admire the multicoloured rocks in the rising sun. I sent Edgar a mental thank you for insisting I stop the night, then strolled to the bus stop.I had thought my adventure was over at that point, that being crooned to by a Falklands vet would be the high point. Five hours later, with the bus stuck in a blizzard at almost 5,000m, I was trying to open the outer door and take photographs.\"They won't let anyone out,\" said an American traveller. \"People would freeze to death.\"I tapped on the door that separated the passenger compartment from the driver's cab. There was no answer. I opened it and peeped inside. The cab was empty. Two steaming containers of mat\u00e9, the local tea, stood on the dashboard. Finding the outer door ajar, I pushed it open and stepped out and was struck by a blast of cold air. The driver came staggering across.\"Aha! You like our weather?\"The thermometer read -10C.\"With the wind, it is much worse. Here, come inside and drink mat\u00e9.\"We stepped back into the cab and he offered me the container of thick herbal goo, with an enamel straw. Mat\u00e9 is almost a way of life in parts of South America, a mildly addictive stimulant mashed from yerba leaves.I'd drunk it made from a teabag, without much pleasure, but this was my initiation by an aficionado. I sucked and got something like a slurp of sweet silage. The driver grinned. \"Good?\"I nodded. \"It's warm.\"Perhaps it was an acquired taste. I took another slug. Definitely silage.\"Will we be here long?\"He laughed. \"We are at almost 5,000m. Summer is short. We usually get through. They are trying to dig that truck out.\"I took another sip of mat\u00e9.\"This is the best road for seeing the Andes,\" he said. \"Even up here there are living creatures: vicu\u00f1as, rheas and vizcachas. But you know the mountains are alive, too.\"He pointed to the dark peaks just visible above us: one a classic cone, the other lower and less defined: \"That is Licancabur and next to him is his headless brother, Juriques. Both brothers were in love with another mountain, Quemal, but she loved only Juriques. She threw a rock at Licancabur but it missed and hit Juriques, knocking his head off. Now they stare at each other across the Atacama.\"\"Can mountains be in love?\"He laughed. \"Of course. And they can be angry \u2013 like today.\"I sucked on the silage, beginning to like the sweet grassy bitterness. The driver's assistants returned, blowing on their fingers and laughing. Ahead of us, the lorry's brake lights came on, then the vehicle shuddered and began to move forward.\"Licancabur has decided that we can pass,\" said the driver.It was over. We were not going to be modern sacrifices, entombed in some future museum, still clutching our votive digital gadgets. We were simply travellers on one of the world's most magnificent bus rides.I made my way back to my seat. As we started, the passengers relaxed. The Australian girl next to me laughed. \"I can't wait to post this on Facebook.\" Others put their headphones back in, but most were notably more attentive to their surroundings. Perhaps this was all the mountains had wanted.In a few minutes we had cleared the blizzard, the sky became deep tranquil blue again and away to our right were the brothers, the two magnificent volcanic cones. As our crossing of the Andes ended, this panorama opened out to reveal a staggering array of snow-capped mountains to north and south. All of them, I guessed, alive with their own stories, should any traveller care to listen.The tripThis trip was provided by Sumak Travel (020 3642 4246, sumak-travel.org) a specialist in community-based ecotourism. A 20-day private tour, including Buenos Aires, the Iguazu Falls, rural tourism in Salta, the Quebrada de Humahuaca, Atacama desert and Santiago, costs from \u00a33,180pp, including accommodation, guided activities and excursions, all breakfasts and most other meals, transfers and contributions to the social projects visited, but not international flightsGetting there Flights were provided by Netflights (0844 692 6792, netflights.com), which has return flights to from London to Buenos Aires with KLM from \u00a3699Further information Rail Travel Grand Central (0844 811 0071 grandcentralrail.com) provided transport between York and London. Advance tickets from \u00a313.60", "tags": ["Argentina holidays", "Travel", "South America holidays", "Road trips", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Crossing the Andes: breaking borders on a stormy mountain bus ride between Argentina and Chile"},{"date": "2013-09-13T17:24:51Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Lewd, shrewd and often witheringly funny, Chile's leading satirical magazine has proved itself again this week as the country's most distinctive media voice and a symbol of how far the nation has opened up in the post-Pinochet era.Founded in 1998 and named after the Harley Street consultancy where General Augusto Pinochet was arrested that year, The Clinic has developed from an underground pamphlet into the most popular magazine in the country \u2013 and one of Latin America's fastest growing news websites.Like the Onion, it is characterised by irreverent humour and a strong sense of the absurd. Like Private Eye, it combines parody with in-depth investigations and a provocative analysis of current affairs. But The Clinic goes further than both in its use of profanity and outrageously Photoshopped images.The cover for this week's 40th anniversary of the coup that brought Pinochet to power was typically eye-catching: a montage of the face of the dictator on the body and uniform of Fidel Castro. Inside were the usual mix of poems, photos, sex confessions, cartoons that mock leading politicians, the Catholic Church and mainstream newspapers. As has been the case since the magazine's origins, Pinochet is the butt of most jokes with comic strips of him as a Pinocchio doll - the lying puppet of US president Richard Nixon - and a mock-up of some of the things he might be doing if he were alive today (for example tweeting: \"If you don't follow me, I will send the secret police to your home).But there is more to the content than a send-up. In the past week The Clinic has led much of the serious coverage of the anniversary with the publication of a 68-page special issue and hundreds of articles, including investigative pieces that exposed torturers, probed the legacy of the coup and provoked debate on how much further democracy needs to progress in Chile.The Clinic itself is testimony to the transformation that has occurred in the past two decades. It traces its origins to a heated discussion over wine and pasta in the Da Noi restaurant in Santiago in October 1998 between a group of friends who were furious at the domestic media's timid coverage of Pinochet's arrest in London. They decided to create their own vehicle.Initially deemed \"more of an art project than a newspaper\", the first few editions were produced clandestinely and circulated for free in coffee shops and bars in Santiago. The operation moved to a semi-commercial footing soon after with distribution through the many news kiosks in the downtown area, paid for by the three founders - Patricio Fernandez, Paul Dittborn and Mario Lobo - who each put up $2,000. It was a risky venture. Pinochet had stepped down several years earlier, but his shadow continued to loom large over Chile. The country had yet to pass a divorce law, TV program makers had to keep the censors happy, and there was little nightlife in Santiago.\"At that time the nation was ultra-conservative and there was a lot of self-censorship,\" Fernandez told the Guardian. \"There were many issues that no one dared to mention and pubic debate was restricted. Our publication came along as a disruptive presence. Some called us 'immoral', others 'terrorists'. But for many more, we were a liberating force.\"Back then, The Clinic was a thin bimonthly with an initial print run of just 13,000 copies. More than 500 editions later, it is now a weekly with almost 140,000 readers, 458,000 Twitter followers and a website with more than 3 million unique visitors a month \u2013 a notable achievement in a nation of 17.4 million people.Since 2005 it has been the best selling magazine in Chile and it has inspired several imitators in the Spanish-speaking world.The anti-establishment organ still struggles to secure advertising from large companies, but history seems to be on its side. The media and political environment have changed enormously since The Clinic began operating. Caution about criticising Pinochet or delving into the dark secrets of his dictatorship has faded. Last week's most popular TV show wasCaravan of Death, about the military hit squads that travelled by helicopter to round up and execute political opponents in the wake of the 1973 coup.Echoes of the magazine's absurdist humour can also be seen in the creative forms of protest used by students in their ongoing battle for education reform. Past demonstrations include a mass Michael Jackson-style zombie , dance and a 15-minute kissathon, a non-stop running relay around the presidential palace and the participation of lipstick-wearing high school transvestites known as the Whores of Babylon.\"Culturally speaking, Chile has undergone an important process of opening,\" says Fernandez. \"I would say that the key moment for this openness was the arrest of Pinochet in London. I guess The Clinic helped a lot too, but I'd say our magazine was also a consequence of the liberating trends that led to his arrest. We are now seeing another generation, more rock-and-roll, less mournful and infinitely more brazen than those who were scared with the mental wounds of the past.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Newspapers", "Newspapers & magazines", "Media"], "title": "Chile finds its voice in The Clinic satirical magazine"},{"date": "2013-07-09T09:24:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Nick MacWilliam is a Santiago-based immigrant Londoner and freelance writer. He is the editor of Revista Revolver, an online magazine devoted to Chile's alternative and independent cultural scene. He is also a regular contributor to Sounds and Colours, and various other websites and magazines that cover South America.If there's a cinema you'd like to tell us about for a future Cine-files, email adam.boult@guardian.co.uk.In downtown Santiago three blocks directly south of Chile's presidential palace, La Moneda, most famous internationally for being the site of Pinochet's military coup against the socialist government of Salvador Allende. This is the Normandie's second home after it started life in Santiago's main thoroughfare, the Alameda, in 1982, before moving to the current spot in 1991. The original venue is now home to another local institution, the Centro Arte Alameda, a cinema, music venue and gallery. The cinema occupies a shabby, older block that it shares with small shops and flats (the Normandie's neon sign is literally hanging on the outside of someone's bedroom window) and which is resisting the construction surge that has transformed Santiago in recent times. All around, nondescript tower blocks are being built as the centre rapidly loses its historical identity in the name of progress. The interior is like a throwback to another age: the brass and chrome-plated foyer, the one-clerk box office, the retro wallpaper. The cinema's only screen is located in a cavernous auditorium where the padded wooden seats and bare floors keep the temperature down: a welcome escape during Santiago's baking summer months; but in winter you'll probably want to keep your coat on. All sorts of people come through the doors, ranging from the older filmgoers who've been frequenting the Normandie for over 30 years to the inhabitants of Santiago's modern hipster scene. Other indie cinemas such as the Bi\u00f3grafo and the Alameda are situated in more fashionable areas, but the Normandie's prestige and diversity ensure that it still attracts the cool crowd. There are also matinee screenings that bring in kids and their parents, while the high residential population of the city centre ensures that there is a strong local customer base.The name comes from the early days when the Normandie featured a lot of French films; these days it focuses more on Latin American cinema and the thriving national film industry, with a clear emphasis on providing an outlet for films ignored by the multiplex chains. There are usually one or two Chilean films on show plus something foreign, whether this is arthouse European fare, Asian epics or the more \"independent\" side of Hollywood, such as Silver Linings Playbook. Recent Chilean Oscar-nomination No enjoyed a longer run here than in any other cinema. There are also sometimes midnight horror screenings.The Normandie is enshrined in Santiago cultural folklore due to its symbolism as a place of artistic and political refuge during the dictatorship. The authorities viewed it as a site of potential subversion and there were cases of the police entering in order to arrest members of the audience. It has been namechecked by seminal 80s new wavers Los Prisoneros in the song Porque No Se Van (Why Don't You Go?). The cinema featured in No director Pablo Larra\u00edn's earlier film Tony Manero, where the psychopathic John Travolta-idolising protagonist beats the elderly projectionist to death for having the temerity to show the scheduled film rather than Saturday Night Fever. As you do.", "tags": ["Film", "Culture", "Chile holidays"], "title": "Cine-files: Cine Arte Normandie, Santiago de Chile"},{"date": "2013-08-06T06:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The World Cup kicks off in June 2014, and though plenty of fans will travel independently, many tour operators have packages to make things easier (though more expensive). Journey Latin America has limited availability on its World Cup trip, arriving in Rio on 7 June for three nights, then including Igua\u00e7u Falls, Manaus and the Amazon, Salvador and Praia do Forte. The trip coincides with games in Manaus and Salvador, so the atmosphere will be great in those cities, and travellers can apply to buy game tickets through the official Fifa website from 20 August. The holiday costs from \u00a34,295pp for 15 days, excluding international flights.Between July and November each year, whales congregate off the Colombian Pacific coast to breed. The appearance of humpbacks is an increasingly popular attraction, seen on boat trips and by scuba diving. Chameleon Travel has a new 13-day trip that takes in the country coast to coast, incorporating two days of whale watching, a visit to Chicamocha canyon and two days on the remote Caribbean island of Providencia, from \u00a32,995 including international flights.Those who've already been to South America but want something more challenging and wildlife-focused could explore Guyana, a little-visited, deep-jungle destination that's amazing for nature spotting. Free of typical tourist infrastructure, visitors will experience mountains, savannah and jungle-canopy walkways, and may spot exotic birds, caiman, giant river otters \u2013 and, if they're lucky, jaguars \u2013 and learn about local life from Amerindians. G Adventures is offering 25% off one trip for this autumn, now \u00a31,762pp (was \u00a32,349pp), departing 1\u00a0September 2013 for 12 days, excluding international flights.The highlights of central and southern Chile are covered in a new \"complete Chilean Patagonia\" trip with Rainbow Tours. It follows a few relaxing days in Santiago with a flight south to the forested and hilly island of Chilo\u00e9, for hiking and horse riding. Then it's off to the Lake District and the Torres del Paine national park. From \u00a34,095pp for 13 days, including international flights and some meals.", "tags": ["South America holidays", "Brazil holidays", "Colombia holidays", "Guyana holidays", "Chile holidays", "World Cup 2014", "Wildlife holidays", "Walking holidays", "Travel", "Football"], "title": "South America: new package tours for 2013/14"},{"date": "2013-07-10T16:40:26Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The former deputy president of South Africa, Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka, was named the new head of UN Women on Wednesday.Mlambo-Ngcuka takes over as executive director from Michelle Bachelet, who resigned in March to run for another term as president of Chile.Announcing the decision at the UN midday press conference, a spokesman for the UN general secretary, Ban Ki-moon, said: \"Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka brings to this position a wealth of experience in advocating for women's issues with a combination of strategic leadership, consensus building and hands-on management experience.\"Mlambo-Ngcuka became an MP in South Africa in 1994, becoming deputy minister in the department of trade and industry two years later, and then energy minister in 1999. In 2005, she became the first woman to hold the position of deputy president, the highest office occupied by a woman in South Africa. She remained in the post until 2008.Before her political career, Mlambo-Ngcuka was the first president of the Natal Organisation of Women, an affiliate of the United Democratic Front. The aim of the organisation, founded in 1983, is to increase women's empowerment and promote women's rights. In 2008, she established the Umlambo Foundation to support schools in poor areas of South Africa through mentoring and coaching for teachers.She is expected to take up her position at UN Women in August.", "tags": ["Global development", "United Nations", "World news", "South Africa", "Africa", "Women"], "title": "UN Women appoints South Africa's Phumzile Mlambo-Ngcuka as new head"},{"date": "2013-11-12T20:58:53Z", "country": "chile", "content": "There is no contest between the two leading candidates, Michelle Bachelet and Evelyn Matthei, in Chile's presidential election on Sunday. Ms Bachelet will be re-elected president \u2013 the only question being whether she achieves victory in one round or two. The two women do have, however, a shared history . As little girls they were neighbours in the same barracks, when their fathers, both generals in the air force, were friends. But there was always a political divide between the two families, and what bonds there were, were ripped apart by Augusto Pinochet's 1973 coup. Mr Matthei was promoted to run the air force, and remains to this day an unrepentant former member of the military junta. And Ms Bachelet's father was tortured, and died in detention of a stroke.The past in Chile is still unfinished business. The 40th anniversary of the coup \u2013 on another 11 September \u2013 was commemorated in rival memorials. The outgoing centre-right president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, wanted Chile to \"move on\", while Bachelet insisted that reconciliation was not possible without a full accounting of truth and justice. The country's supreme court apologised for not having done more to protect human rights in the aftermath of the coup, but there is a long way still to go. While 41% now blame Pinochet for the coup, there are still those in Chile who claim there was no option but to overthrow Salvador Allende.If Allende's vision for Chile is triumphing over Pinochet's, Ms Bachelet will approach a second term with an agenda which if anything is more radical and progressive than that of her first term. Wealth is still concentrated in the hands of a few affluent families, and inequality, particularly in higher education, is a major issue. Pushed by students who have turned out weekly in their thousands in demonstrations which have captured public sympathy, Ms Bachelet is offering free higher education over the next six years. The cost of higher education is a running sore, which the outgoing president recognised by cutting interest rates on student loans and tripling the number of grants. Ms Bachelet will pay for this by raising the corporate tax rate and closing a loophole that allows companies to defer payments on reinvested earnings. Most ambitiously of all, she wants to replace Pinochet's constitution with one that allows more change, not least to a president's term of office. Watch also how the former head of UN Women attempts to loosen Chile's prohibition on abortion.This is a big agenda. Much will depend on how well Ms Bachelet's bloc Nueva Mayor\u00eda performs in the concurrent parliamentary poll, as she remains more popular than her coalition. Turnout will matter now that sanctions for non-voting have been removed. By any measure, she is an impressive candidate, not just for Chile but for the left too.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chile: the right choice | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-11-12T20:58:53Z", "country": "chile", "content": "There is no contest between the two leading candidates, Michelle Bachelet and Evelyn Matthei, in Chile's presidential election on Sunday. Ms Bachelet will be re-elected president \u2013 the only question being whether she achieves victory in one round or two. The two women do have, however, a shared history . As little girls they were neighbours in the same barracks, when their fathers, both generals in the air force, were friends. But there was always a political divide between the two families, and what bonds there were, were ripped apart by Augusto Pinochet's 1973 coup. Mr Matthei was promoted to run the air force, and remains to this day an unrepentant former member of the military junta. And Ms Bachelet's father was tortured, and died in detention of a stroke.The past in Chile is still unfinished business. The 40th anniversary of the coup \u2013 on another 11 September \u2013 was commemorated in rival memorials. The outgoing centre-right president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, wanted Chile to \"move on\", while Bachelet insisted that reconciliation was not possible without a full accounting of truth and justice. The country's supreme court apologised for not having done more to protect human rights in the aftermath of the coup, but there is a long way still to go. While 41% now blame Pinochet for the coup, there are still those in Chile who claim there was no option but to overthrow Salvador Allende.If Allende's vision for Chile is triumphing over Pinochet's, Ms Bachelet will approach a second term with an agenda which if anything is more radical and progressive than that of her first term. Wealth is still concentrated in the hands of a few affluent families, and inequality, particularly in higher education, is a major issue. Pushed by students who have turned out weekly in their thousands in demonstrations which have captured public sympathy, Ms Bachelet is offering free higher education over the next six years. The cost of higher education is a running sore, which the outgoing president recognised by cutting interest rates on student loans and tripling the number of grants. Ms Bachelet will pay for this by raising the corporate tax rate and closing a loophole that allows companies to defer payments on reinvested earnings. Most ambitiously of all, she wants to replace Pinochet's constitution with one that allows more change, not least to a president's term of office. Watch also how the former head of UN Women attempts to loosen Chile's prohibition on abortion.This is a big agenda. Much will depend on how well Ms Bachelet's bloc Nueva Mayor\u00eda performs in the concurrent parliamentary poll, as she remains more popular than her coalition. Turnout will matter now that sanctions for non-voting have been removed. By any measure, she is an impressive candidate, not just for Chile but for the left too.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chile: the right choice | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-10-02T11:04:14Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Forty years ago the furies descended upon Latin America. In Chile, as elsewhere, their aim was to erase any trace of the utopian dreams and aspirations entertained by the young, the leftist parties, and the indigenous, feminist and progressive Christian social movements that formed the backbone of Salvador Allende's Popular Unity coalition and brought him to power in 1970.Those behind the September coup in Chile opted for the most extreme forms of violence \u2013 torture, disappearance, bombings, targeted assassinations, widespread espionage, confinement in prison camps \u2013 and created a transcontinental network of surveillance and crime.The new economic and political model that would reign over Latin American countries, and be exported globally in years to come, was built on the basis of such violence.Although Milton Friedman has long been credited as the lone father of Chile's neoliberal model, the story that is beginning to emerge may be different and darker. The post-coup plan originated in the work of a small and secretive group of young conservatives connected to the nationalist right and the navy, inspired by ultra-Catholic fundamentalism and Franco's Spain rather than just Chicago.The nationalists represented traditional land-owning interests, bankers and local beneficiaries of foreign businesses. Chief among them was Agust\u00edn Edwards Eastman, head of the Edwards banking family. When it became apparent that the Chilean people might \"irresponsibly\" elect socialist Allende, as Henry Kissinger put it, Edwards travelled to Washington. Through his US business friends he contacted Kissinger and alerted the White House that Chile might \"go communist\".Edwards was also part of an exclusive group that included businessmen, media owners, navy officers, nationalist politicians and young conservatives such as Sergio de Castro, one of the so-called \"Chicago Boys\". Castro and others, including young ideologue Jaime Guzm\u00e1n, would become the architects of Chile's model. They didn't need to wait for Friedman. Their sources can be found among the Spanish far-right ideologues that the historian Paul Preston called \"theorists of extermination\". Guzm\u00e1n had been mentored by the theologian Osvaldo Lira, who championed the extremist ideas of the Carlist ideologue Juan V\u00e1zquez de Mella in Latin America.Chief among such ideas was the notion of a Jewish-Muslim-masonic-Bolshevik plot against Christendom. But there was also the idea that having such heretics in charge of the state would undermine the liberties of professional guilds and private corporations guaranteed in law. The attack against God-given law, ordered by the state, triggered a sacred duty to overthrow the government. In its place, they would install a model in which the unbridled liberties of private corporations and guilds would determine law and people's consent, not the other way around. The result would be a minimal state, limited by the market.Chile's supposedly miraculous economic model and its \"protected democracy\" \u2013 the name given by Pinochet's advisers to the political model incarnated in the 1980 constitution, a precursor of the current model of democracy plus draconian limits to civil liberties that have emerged in the UK and the US after 9/11 \u2013 is still in force pace some minor amendments, yet neither were inspired by liberal economics. They originated in fundamentalist theology. That model, admired by Thatcherites and Reaganites the world over, was recently suggested to the Egyptian military by the Wall Street Journal. In Chile, however, its results are being questioned by the youth and an important sector of the working and middle classes.Chile's GDP did grow to a yearly 6%, unemployment is relatively low and investment high. First among South American countries, Chile entered the exclusive OECD club in 2010. But household incomes fell, as is happening in Britain, and are now among the lowest in the OECD countries. Consequently, householders' combined debt skyrocketed. By 2012 it stood at a dangerous 60% of their income. Only about a third of Chileans believe they'll be able to afford a house or pay a mortgage at reasonable rates. Unsurprisingly, the finance sector has grown 50 times the size of the \"real\" economy. It controls the flimsy Chilean welfare sector. Edwards' successors came out on top.Who else won? A cable sent by the chemical company Hoechst Chile to its Frankfurt headquarters described the 1973 coup as \"an action prepared to the last detail. Brilliantly executed \u2026 Allende's government has encountered the end it deserved \u2026 In the future Chile will be an ever more interesting market for our products.\" Enough said. The reason for the pharmaceuticals' involvement seems obscure until we remember that Allende was, first of all, a physician who firmly believed in public universal healthcare. Together with other scientists-turned-activists, he stood up to a private health sector backed by powerful multinationals. He fought to guarantee the employment of healthcare staff in the public sector so that it could provide universal access, irrespective of income, and end the shady practices of professional medical guilds controlled by the private sector and transnational pharmaceuticals.It has been said that economic irresponsibility and disregard for the rule of law on the part of Allende's government provoked the coup or made it predictable. This argument echoes the religious fundamentalism of the 1970s young conservatives. It's also wrong. Before Allende had the chance to mismanage the economy or show disregard for the law, as his enemies argue to this day, the destiny of Chilean democracy had been decided by a small cadre of people in Chile, Brazil's dictatorship \u2013 which fought this \"war by proxy\" for the Nixon administration \u2013 and the US.The decision was made in secrecy, but it was eagerly awaited by many Chileans among the upper and middle classes, and even a sector of the mining workers, who bought into the fearmongering doublespeak of Guzm\u00e1n and the nationalists. The latter thinly but successfully disguised their fundamentalist violent creed in the language of protection of tradition, family and property.While the tanks rolled, many looked the other way. And yet, as health and education were privatised, millions of Chileans, their sons and daughters, lost out. It's them, a new generation, which has rehabilitated Allende's legacy. His concerns over indigenous agrarian demands, health and education echo not only the current politics of Chile's youth and Bolivia or Ecuador \u2013 consider also the peasant protests that recently rocked Colombian conservative politics to the core.The 2011 Chilean student protesters against education's privatisation have, in 2013, become congressional candidates. They stand as the true model for today's English students, Spanish indignados and the desperate Greek.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Protest", "Young people", "Society"], "title": "Chile: a model to follow | Oscar Guardiola-Rivera"},{"date": "2013-11-12T20:58:53Z", "country": "chile", "content": "There is no contest between the two leading candidates, Michelle Bachelet and Evelyn Matthei, in Chile's presidential election on Sunday. Ms Bachelet will be re-elected president \u2013 the only question being whether she achieves victory in one round or two. The two women do have, however, a shared history . As little girls they were neighbours in the same barracks, when their fathers, both generals in the air force, were friends. But there was always a political divide between the two families, and what bonds there were, were ripped apart by Augusto Pinochet's 1973 coup. Mr Matthei was promoted to run the air force, and remains to this day an unrepentant former member of the military junta. And Ms Bachelet's father was tortured, and died in detention of a stroke.The past in Chile is still unfinished business. The 40th anniversary of the coup \u2013 on another 11 September \u2013 was commemorated in rival memorials. The outgoing centre-right president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, wanted Chile to \"move on\", while Bachelet insisted that reconciliation was not possible without a full accounting of truth and justice. The country's supreme court apologised for not having done more to protect human rights in the aftermath of the coup, but there is a long way still to go. While 41% now blame Pinochet for the coup, there are still those in Chile who claim there was no option but to overthrow Salvador Allende.If Allende's vision for Chile is triumphing over Pinochet's, Ms Bachelet will approach a second term with an agenda which if anything is more radical and progressive than that of her first term. Wealth is still concentrated in the hands of a few affluent families, and inequality, particularly in higher education, is a major issue. Pushed by students who have turned out weekly in their thousands in demonstrations which have captured public sympathy, Ms Bachelet is offering free higher education over the next six years. The cost of higher education is a running sore, which the outgoing president recognised by cutting interest rates on student loans and tripling the number of grants. Ms Bachelet will pay for this by raising the corporate tax rate and closing a loophole that allows companies to defer payments on reinvested earnings. Most ambitiously of all, she wants to replace Pinochet's constitution with one that allows more change, not least to a president's term of office. Watch also how the former head of UN Women attempts to loosen Chile's prohibition on abortion.This is a big agenda. Much will depend on how well Ms Bachelet's bloc Nueva Mayor\u00eda performs in the concurrent parliamentary poll, as she remains more popular than her coalition. Turnout will matter now that sanctions for non-voting have been removed. By any measure, she is an impressive candidate, not just for Chile but for the left too.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chile: the right choice | Editorial"},{"date": "2013-10-02T11:04:14Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Forty years ago the furies descended upon Latin America. In Chile, as elsewhere, their aim was to erase any trace of the utopian dreams and aspirations entertained by the young, the leftist parties, and the indigenous, feminist and progressive Christian social movements that formed the backbone of Salvador Allende's Popular Unity coalition and brought him to power in 1970.Those behind the September coup in Chile opted for the most extreme forms of violence \u2013 torture, disappearance, bombings, targeted assassinations, widespread espionage, confinement in prison camps \u2013 and created a transcontinental network of surveillance and crime.The new economic and political model that would reign over Latin American countries, and be exported globally in years to come, was built on the basis of such violence.Although Milton Friedman has long been credited as the lone father of Chile's neoliberal model, the story that is beginning to emerge may be different and darker. The post-coup plan originated in the work of a small and secretive group of young conservatives connected to the nationalist right and the navy, inspired by ultra-Catholic fundamentalism and Franco's Spain rather than just Chicago.The nationalists represented traditional land-owning interests, bankers and local beneficiaries of foreign businesses. Chief among them was Agust\u00edn Edwards Eastman, head of the Edwards banking family. When it became apparent that the Chilean people might \"irresponsibly\" elect socialist Allende, as Henry Kissinger put it, Edwards travelled to Washington. Through his US business friends he contacted Kissinger and alerted the White House that Chile might \"go communist\".Edwards was also part of an exclusive group that included businessmen, media owners, navy officers, nationalist politicians and young conservatives such as Sergio de Castro, one of the so-called \"Chicago Boys\". Castro and others, including young ideologue Jaime Guzm\u00e1n, would become the architects of Chile's model. They didn't need to wait for Friedman. Their sources can be found among the Spanish far-right ideologues that the historian Paul Preston called \"theorists of extermination\". Guzm\u00e1n had been mentored by the theologian Osvaldo Lira, who championed the extremist ideas of the Carlist ideologue Juan V\u00e1zquez de Mella in Latin America.Chief among such ideas was the notion of a Jewish-Muslim-masonic-Bolshevik plot against Christendom. But there was also the idea that having such heretics in charge of the state would undermine the liberties of professional guilds and private corporations guaranteed in law. The attack against God-given law, ordered by the state, triggered a sacred duty to overthrow the government. In its place, they would install a model in which the unbridled liberties of private corporations and guilds would determine law and people's consent, not the other way around. The result would be a minimal state, limited by the market.Chile's supposedly miraculous economic model and its \"protected democracy\" \u2013 the name given by Pinochet's advisers to the political model incarnated in the 1980 constitution, a precursor of the current model of democracy plus draconian limits to civil liberties that have emerged in the UK and the US after 9/11 \u2013 is still in force pace some minor amendments, yet neither were inspired by liberal economics. They originated in fundamentalist theology. That model, admired by Thatcherites and Reaganites the world over, was recently suggested to the Egyptian military by the Wall Street Journal. In Chile, however, its results are being questioned by the youth and an important sector of the working and middle classes.Chile's GDP did grow to a yearly 6%, unemployment is relatively low and investment high. First among South American countries, Chile entered the exclusive OECD club in 2010. But household incomes fell, as is happening in Britain, and are now among the lowest in the OECD countries. Consequently, householders' combined debt skyrocketed. By 2012 it stood at a dangerous 60% of their income. Only about a third of Chileans believe they'll be able to afford a house or pay a mortgage at reasonable rates. Unsurprisingly, the finance sector has grown 50 times the size of the \"real\" economy. It controls the flimsy Chilean welfare sector. Edwards' successors came out on top.Who else won? A cable sent by the chemical company Hoechst Chile to its Frankfurt headquarters described the 1973 coup as \"an action prepared to the last detail. Brilliantly executed \u2026 Allende's government has encountered the end it deserved \u2026 In the future Chile will be an ever more interesting market for our products.\" Enough said. The reason for the pharmaceuticals' involvement seems obscure until we remember that Allende was, first of all, a physician who firmly believed in public universal healthcare. Together with other scientists-turned-activists, he stood up to a private health sector backed by powerful multinationals. He fought to guarantee the employment of healthcare staff in the public sector so that it could provide universal access, irrespective of income, and end the shady practices of professional medical guilds controlled by the private sector and transnational pharmaceuticals.It has been said that economic irresponsibility and disregard for the rule of law on the part of Allende's government provoked the coup or made it predictable. This argument echoes the religious fundamentalism of the 1970s young conservatives. It's also wrong. Before Allende had the chance to mismanage the economy or show disregard for the law, as his enemies argue to this day, the destiny of Chilean democracy had been decided by a small cadre of people in Chile, Brazil's dictatorship \u2013 which fought this \"war by proxy\" for the Nixon administration \u2013 and the US.The decision was made in secrecy, but it was eagerly awaited by many Chileans among the upper and middle classes, and even a sector of the mining workers, who bought into the fearmongering doublespeak of Guzm\u00e1n and the nationalists. The latter thinly but successfully disguised their fundamentalist violent creed in the language of protection of tradition, family and property.While the tanks rolled, many looked the other way. And yet, as health and education were privatised, millions of Chileans, their sons and daughters, lost out. It's them, a new generation, which has rehabilitated Allende's legacy. His concerns over indigenous agrarian demands, health and education echo not only the current politics of Chile's youth and Bolivia or Ecuador \u2013 consider also the peasant protests that recently rocked Colombian conservative politics to the core.The 2011 Chilean student protesters against education's privatisation have, in 2013, become congressional candidates. They stand as the true model for today's English students, Spanish indignados and the desperate Greek.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Protest", "Young people", "Society"], "title": "Chile: a model to follow | Oscar Guardiola-Rivera"},{"date": "2013-11-10T17:34:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I don't want anyone to have to suffer the torture or exile my family and I were made to endure.On 16 September 1973, five days after the military coup that toppled President Salvador Allende, I was seized by the military police in a street in Santiago, Chile's capital. I think they took me because I was a member of the Socialist party and close to Allende.I was repeatedly tortured for months, first in the basement of a police station, and then in the national stadium, which the military regime had turned into a large concentration camp for political prisoners. I was blindfolded and handcuffed for most of the torture, so I couldn't see my torturers.I was beaten on my head and body countless times; they broke my arm in several places after smashing it with a rifle and I almost lost an eye; they held my head under cold water and electrocuted me; they kicked me in my testicles, burned me with cigarettes and suspended me by a hook with weights on my legs. I heard of people being executed by firing squads.At the police station, there were bags of concrete covered in blood. The police interrogated me about the whereabouts of politicians close to Allende; I wouldn't give them any information. They threatened to kill my six-year-old daughter. They said they would shoot her in front of the concrete bags, and then do the same to me.I didn't know if my family members were dead or alive for eight months. I spent almost two years in several concentration camps. In June 1975, I was expelled from Chile by a government decree. I received refugee status in the UK, and my wife and three daughters joined me in exile.Before the coup, we lived in a middle-class neighbourhood in Santiago. I was working at the racecourse and my wife worked for the government. We were saving to buy a house and had a comfortable life. We would often go out to restaurants or go dancing.But after the torture I got very depressed. I struggled through flashbacks and suffered from constant headaches. I lost almost all of my hearing. I have been suffering intense lower-back pain since then and I need a stick to walk. I can't feel my left hand fully. On arrival in the UK, I was declared permanently disabled. My wife worked at all sorts of odd jobs to support our family while also taking care of me. My eldest daughter had to stop studying architecture in Chile to come. We all struggled in a new country and with a different language.I'm a torture survivor, but in reality I'm dead in life. I will die a tortured man. Every time I shave and see the ugly scar above my left eye, which was caused when I was hit with the butt of a machine gun, the only thing I see is Augusto Pinochet. I'm 80 years old and I have been waiting for justice half my life. In the 40 years since I was tortured, nobody has ever been punished for what happened to me. There is no real justice in Chile. I feel the different governments have just delayed dealing with past atrocities, until we are all dead.I was fortunate to find Redress, a charity in London that helped me to fight my case to seek justice and reparation from Chile. Many other victims are alone. It took nine years for my case to reach the Inter-American court, the highest human rights court in the Americas, and two more for the judges to reach a judgment. A ruling was announced on 30 October.The court ordered Chile to pay me \u00a320,000 for the lack of justice in my case. They said it had taken too long for Chile to complete a criminal investigation into my torture and they ordered it to do so as soon as possible. They also urged Chile to cover the costs of my medical and psychological treatment in the UK that I need as a victim of torture.No amount of money will be able to compensate me and my family for our suffering. The torture and forced exile destroyed our lives. But I am satisfied that the ruling sets a precedent. I hope it serves as a reminder that this should never happen again, anywhere in the world.", "tags": ["Torture", "Chile", "Augusto Pinochet", "Americas", "Law", "Human rights", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Money won't compensate for my torture in Chile | Leopoldo Garc\u00eda Lucero"},{"date": "2014-02-07T21:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "As the sun sets, the houses that cover the city's many hillsides change tone, chameleon-like, from strong and vibrant to dusky shades of pink, gold, sage and pale blue. On the park lawn, a trapeze artist is balancing on a high wire in the last fingers of sunshine and two actors rehearse their lines under the violet blooms of a jacaranda tree. In the auditorium at the far side of the park, in a high-ceilinged room with wooden floors and long black curtains, a small audience settles in to listen to a series of international musicians taking part in an experimental gig. Welcome to Friday evening, Valpara\u00edso-style.Only two hours from the Chilean capital of Santiago, Valpara\u00edso spreads across a series of hillsides that form a natural amphitheatre overlooking the sea. Where Santiago is all about business and government, Valpara\u00edso is more laid-back. Its streets are still pleasingly ramshackle in parts and it has the vague seediness that often characterises large ports. Chilean artists, writers and musicians have long made the city their home, drawn to its picturesque location and bohemian mores \u2013 Nobel prize-winning poet Pablo Neruda is one notable former resident. With its artistic vibe and slightly crumbling feel, Valpara\u00edso has an ambience akin to a smaller, seaside, Latin version of Berlin.Add in a $73m investment programme \u2013 the city was listed as a Unesco world heritage centre in 2003, prompting a much-needed influx of government funds \u2013 and Valpo, as the locals refer to it, is transforming into Chile's most creative city. It's also a burgeoning tourist destination.The city's former prison typifies its transformation. Formerly squatted by an art collective, it reopened in the summer of 2013 as a cultural centre, Parque Cultural de Valpara\u00edso, with a public park and a\u00a0new auditorium designed by HLPS, one of Chile's up-and-coming architecture practices. It's here I\u00a0watch musicians and acrobats at sunset. But you don't need to venture to the highbrow performance centre to find music, culture and art. The real action takes place in the streets that cover the city's cerros (hills).The most tourist-friendly of the hills are Cerro Alegre and Cerro Concepci\u00f3n. Twisting sharply upwards from the waterfront, these neighbouring barrios are home to galleries, restaurants, bars and hotels, all tucked away on quiet, cobbled streets lined with clapboard houses in kaleidoscopic colours. You can take a creaking funicular up the steepest slopes (the fare is 100 pesos, around 10p) or, if you walk, pause for breath on the climb and turn to see the pink, lemon, lime and ochre houses standing in contrast to the blue of the sky and deep indigo of the ocean.Alegre is the hub of the growing gallery scene. Among the best is Casa E, run by Emilio Lamarca, a charming former diplomat from Santiago who left his government role five years ago and moved to Valpara\u00edso to take a\u00a0punt on a growing interest in modern Chilean art.\"Nobody else was focusing on contemporary Latin American art and I felt there was a real need for a gallery that shows the quality of the work we have on offer here,\" he says.Today Casa E offers a varied programme of video pieces, installation art and photography, and runs an annual prize to promote the work of emerging artists.Another gallery worth a look is Bah\u00eda Ut\u00f3pica, which specialises in prints by Loro Coir\u00f3n, a French-born artist who has made his life in Valpara\u00edso. Coir\u00f3n's wood-block street scenes adorn the walls of local cafes and hotels and have an energy about them that is vividly redolent of a city whose grit and soul remain intact.Much of the art produced here, like Coiron's, spills out on to the streets. Local artists use the city as their canvas and street artists from around the world come to create intricate works on the buildings of Cerro Alegre.Local businesses embrace this creativity and the best street artists are paid for their work. At Hostal\u00a0Acuarela \u2013 the name means watercolour \u2013 Ana from reception takes me outside and proudly displays a wall covered with an intricate, India-inspired pattern by a street artist called Mono Type.\"We bartered with him: he painted the wall for us and stayed with us for free while he was doing it,\" she says.One of the best ways to appreciate all this public art is to take a tour with Valpo Street Art. Walks led by genial American expat Al \u2013 whose second job as a sommelier makes him a useful wine guide, too \u2013 take in the best pieces and, if you're in luck, give you a chance to meet the artists.Many of the paintings are intricate and complex works that require time to prepare and execute \u2013 walls need to sealed before painting if the piece is to last \u2013 so many artists ask for permission from the wall's owner before beginning. \"I'm meeting a German guy this afternoon who wants a couple of walls to work on,\" says Al. \"I think I know some places that might work.\"But Dave, an Australian artist, is dismissive of prepping and asking permission, muttering \"pussies\" under his breath when I mention it. \"I like simple, graphic designs and I work fast. I don't mind if the work doesn't last \u2013 that's the nature of street art.\"He promises to take me out to watch him work but then reveals that it's his birthday. So we wander to a\u00a0bar to drink pisco sours and set the world to rights instead. As befits a city of artists, Valpara\u00edso has no shortage of drinking opportunities. For a more refined ambience, stick to Concepci\u00f3n, where Bar de Pisco is the best place to try the local spirit and Fauna has a decent cocktail bar with a deck that makes the most of the sunset views over the city.For a more local vibe, Bar Liberty on Plaza Echaurren is a\u00a0great spot for lunch or a beer. It is a traditional Chilean drinking den, its clientele a mix of tradesmen, shopkeepers and artists. The row of hats lined up above the bar is testament to the drinking done here: if you fall asleep after one too many, the bar claims your hat as its own. Tourists are welcome enough, but are not fawned over, and you'll need to speak Spanish to order or chat.Locals in the city can be aloof at first. There's a sense, among some, that development in Valparaiso is being driven by foreign investment. Drinkers at Bar Liberty shrug, ambivalent, when I ask them about the new-look Valpo. \"Mostly it's foreigners who are making the money,\" says one.Younger locals are more upbeat. Valpo has a large student population and if you sit in a cafe in student-friendly Concepci\u00f3n or neighbouring areas such as Pante\u00f3n and Bellas Artes, you'll soon be chatting with locals sporting dreadlocks, piercings and tattoos, who'll be happy to share tips on which bars serve the best pisco and where to hear the latest band.Local band La Smala is one worth checking out and, especially at weekends, you can find all kinds of live music in bars throughout the city, from Chilean folk and pop to Latin fusion. Try L Bar (General Cruz, 335) in El Almendral and the bars on Cumming at the base of Cerro Pante\u00f3n.When it comes to food to soak up all that pisco, Vinilo (+56 32 223 0665, cafevinilo.cl) is worth a visit for a contemporary take on Chilean dishes such as shredded beef in a stylish roulade. Or try Puerto Claro , further up the hill on the corner of Calle Galos, for home-cooked, traditional-style food in what was once a living room.Valpo is waking up to its tourism potential and there are now plenty of places to stay that mirror the city's character. Fauna (doubles from $140) has striking views from its adobe-clad rooms, which also feature work by local artists. Next door, Via Via (doubles from around $71 B&B) is a great-value, art deco house that's been converted to an eco-friendly hotel by a Belgian couple. It has a lovely garden and a cafe serving Belgian specialities, such as mussels, as well as Chilean dishes.There are cheaper options, too: the above-mentioned Hostal Acuarela (+56 32 318 0456, hostalacuarela.cl) has dorm beds from $19 and doubles from $45 \u2013 as well as a terrace with unsurpassable views. Or for a true taste of Valpo spirit, try Casa Verde Lim\u00f3n ( doubles from \u00a312). The brightly painted bedrooms are scuffed and in need of a makeover, but in pride of place in the double-height living room is a trapeze that all guests are welcome to use.Flights were provided by Iberia, which flies from London Heathrow to Santiago via Madrid from \u00a3657 return, and from Manchester from \u00a3751 return. The bus from Santiago to Valpara\u00edso costs \u00a35 each way and takes 90 minutesFurther informationChilean tourist board: joinchile.com It's hard to find a more beautiful spot than Paraty, below: the colonial town sits between emerald-green hills and white-sand beaches. Its cobbled streets, lined with one-storey whitewashed buildings, attract a mix of backpackers, weekenders from Rio and the odd international celeb wafting through the boutiques, classy cafes and art galleries. Though you probably wouldn't find them tasting the wares in one of the town's six cacha\u00e7a distilleries.Recently declared a Unesco world heritage site, San Miguel de Allende is known for its colonial architecture, shops and culture. Its compact centre is filled with narrow streets, cobbled alleys and homes painted in muted ochre colours. The city is home to a large population of artists and writers, both native and foreign, and hosts regular music, dance and literary festivals. There are plenty of studios, galleries and design stores and a vibrant food scene, with some of Mexico's best-known chefs opening restaurants in the city.Arguably Colombia's most beautiful city, Cartagena combines striking colonial architecture and a vibrant cultural life without sacrificing reality: streets are still buzzing with locals and you can find yourself spending longer than expected people-watching in a coffee shop or just sitting in a square admiring the orange and yellow houses. It is especially good for literature lovers, who can take a Gabriel Garc\u00eda Ma\u00e1rquez tour (tourincartagena.com) of places mentioned in his novels; and the Hay literature festival holds an outpost event there each January.Unlike Granada, Nicaragua's other colonial-era city, Le\u00f3n has avoided the ossification that sometimes results from reliance on tourism. Families still sit on rockers on the porches and play basketball in the streets. And, thanks to a large student population and a strong cultural legacy (two of the nation's poets, Rub\u00e9n Dar\u00edo and Alfonso Cort\u00e9s, are from the city), Le\u00f3n has a vibrant intellectual life. The former homes of both Dar\u00edo and Cort\u00e9s are now museums; Fundaci\u00f3n Ortiz Gurdian showcases a wide selection of Nicaraguan and Latin American art; the city also has several beautifully renovated colonial-era churches. TL", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Art and design"], "title": "Chile cool: art, music and graffiti in laid-back Valpara\u00edso"},{"date": "2014-02-07T21:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "As the sun sets, the houses that cover the city's many hillsides change tone, chameleon-like, from strong and vibrant to dusky shades of pink, gold, sage and pale blue. On the park lawn, a trapeze artist is balancing on a high wire in the last fingers of sunshine and two actors rehearse their lines under the violet blooms of a jacaranda tree. In the auditorium at the far side of the park, in a high-ceilinged room with wooden floors and long black curtains, a small audience settles in to listen to a series of international musicians taking part in an experimental gig. Welcome to Friday evening, Valpara\u00edso-style.Only two hours from the Chilean capital of Santiago, Valpara\u00edso spreads across a series of hillsides that form a natural amphitheatre overlooking the sea. Where Santiago is all about business and government, Valpara\u00edso is more laid-back. Its streets are still pleasingly ramshackle in parts and it has the vague seediness that often characterises large ports. Chilean artists, writers and musicians have long made the city their home, drawn to its picturesque location and bohemian mores \u2013 Nobel prize-winning poet Pablo Neruda is one notable former resident. With its artistic vibe and slightly crumbling feel, Valpara\u00edso has an ambience akin to a smaller, seaside, Latin version of Berlin.Add in a $73m investment programme \u2013 the city was listed as a Unesco world heritage centre in 2003, prompting a much-needed influx of government funds \u2013 and Valpo, as the locals refer to it, is transforming into Chile's most creative city. It's also a burgeoning tourist destination.The city's former prison typifies its transformation. Formerly squatted by an art collective, it reopened in the summer of 2013 as a cultural centre, Parque Cultural de Valpara\u00edso, with a public park and a\u00a0new auditorium designed by HLPS, one of Chile's up-and-coming architecture practices. It's here I\u00a0watch musicians and acrobats at sunset. But you don't need to venture to the highbrow performance centre to find music, culture and art. The real action takes place in the streets that cover the city's cerros (hills).The most tourist-friendly of the hills are Cerro Alegre and Cerro Concepci\u00f3n. Twisting sharply upwards from the waterfront, these neighbouring barrios are home to galleries, restaurants, bars and hotels, all tucked away on quiet, cobbled streets lined with clapboard houses in kaleidoscopic colours. You can take a creaking funicular up the steepest slopes (the fare is 100 pesos, around 10p) or, if you walk, pause for breath on the climb and turn to see the pink, lemon, lime and ochre houses standing in contrast to the blue of the sky and deep indigo of the ocean.Alegre is the hub of the growing gallery scene. Among the best is Casa E, run by Emilio Lamarca, a charming former diplomat from Santiago who left his government role five years ago and moved to Valpara\u00edso to take a\u00a0punt on a growing interest in modern Chilean art.\"Nobody else was focusing on contemporary Latin American art and I felt there was a real need for a gallery that shows the quality of the work we have on offer here,\" he says.Today Casa E offers a varied programme of video pieces, installation art and photography, and runs an annual prize to promote the work of emerging artists.Another gallery worth a look is Bah\u00eda Ut\u00f3pica, which specialises in prints by Loro Coir\u00f3n, a French-born artist who has made his life in Valpara\u00edso. Coir\u00f3n's wood-block street scenes adorn the walls of local cafes and hotels and have an energy about them that is vividly redolent of a city whose grit and soul remain intact.Much of the art produced here, like Coiron's, spills out on to the streets. Local artists use the city as their canvas and street artists from around the world come to create intricate works on the buildings of Cerro Alegre.Local businesses embrace this creativity and the best street artists are paid for their work. At Hostal\u00a0Acuarela \u2013 the name means watercolour \u2013 Ana from reception takes me outside and proudly displays a wall covered with an intricate, India-inspired pattern by a street artist called Mono Type.\"We bartered with him: he painted the wall for us and stayed with us for free while he was doing it,\" she says.One of the best ways to appreciate all this public art is to take a tour with Valpo Street Art. Walks led by genial American expat Al \u2013 whose second job as a sommelier makes him a useful wine guide, too \u2013 take in the best pieces and, if you're in luck, give you a chance to meet the artists.Many of the paintings are intricate and complex works that require time to prepare and execute \u2013 walls need to sealed before painting if the piece is to last \u2013 so many artists ask for permission from the wall's owner before beginning. \"I'm meeting a German guy this afternoon who wants a couple of walls to work on,\" says Al. \"I think I know some places that might work.\"But Dave, an Australian artist, is dismissive of prepping and asking permission, muttering \"pussies\" under his breath when I mention it. \"I like simple, graphic designs and I work fast. I don't mind if the work doesn't last \u2013 that's the nature of street art.\"He promises to take me out to watch him work but then reveals that it's his birthday. So we wander to a\u00a0bar to drink pisco sours and set the world to rights instead. As befits a city of artists, Valpara\u00edso has no shortage of drinking opportunities. For a more refined ambience, stick to Concepci\u00f3n, where Bar de Pisco is the best place to try the local spirit and Fauna has a decent cocktail bar with a deck that makes the most of the sunset views over the city.For a more local vibe, Bar Liberty on Plaza Echaurren is a\u00a0great spot for lunch or a beer. It is a traditional Chilean drinking den, its clientele a mix of tradesmen, shopkeepers and artists. The row of hats lined up above the bar is testament to the drinking done here: if you fall asleep after one too many, the bar claims your hat as its own. Tourists are welcome enough, but are not fawned over, and you'll need to speak Spanish to order or chat.Locals in the city can be aloof at first. There's a sense, among some, that development in Valparaiso is being driven by foreign investment. Drinkers at Bar Liberty shrug, ambivalent, when I ask them about the new-look Valpo. \"Mostly it's foreigners who are making the money,\" says one.Younger locals are more upbeat. Valpo has a large student population and if you sit in a cafe in student-friendly Concepci\u00f3n or neighbouring areas such as Pante\u00f3n and Bellas Artes, you'll soon be chatting with locals sporting dreadlocks, piercings and tattoos, who'll be happy to share tips on which bars serve the best pisco and where to hear the latest band.Local band La Smala is one worth checking out and, especially at weekends, you can find all kinds of live music in bars throughout the city, from Chilean folk and pop to Latin fusion. Try L Bar (General Cruz, 335) in El Almendral and the bars on Cumming at the base of Cerro Pante\u00f3n.When it comes to food to soak up all that pisco, Vinilo (+56 32 223 0665, cafevinilo.cl) is worth a visit for a contemporary take on Chilean dishes such as shredded beef in a stylish roulade. Or try Puerto Claro , further up the hill on the corner of Calle Galos, for home-cooked, traditional-style food in what was once a living room.Valpo is waking up to its tourism potential and there are now plenty of places to stay that mirror the city's character. Fauna (doubles from $140) has striking views from its adobe-clad rooms, which also feature work by local artists. Next door, Via Via (doubles from around $71 B&B) is a great-value, art deco house that's been converted to an eco-friendly hotel by a Belgian couple. It has a lovely garden and a cafe serving Belgian specialities, such as mussels, as well as Chilean dishes.There are cheaper options, too: the above-mentioned Hostal Acuarela (+56 32 318 0456, hostalacuarela.cl) has dorm beds from $19 and doubles from $45 \u2013 as well as a terrace with unsurpassable views. Or for a true taste of Valpo spirit, try Casa Verde Lim\u00f3n ( doubles from \u00a312). The brightly painted bedrooms are scuffed and in need of a makeover, but in pride of place in the double-height living room is a trapeze that all guests are welcome to use.Flights were provided by Iberia, which flies from London Heathrow to Santiago via Madrid from \u00a3657 return, and from Manchester from \u00a3751 return. The bus from Santiago to Valpara\u00edso costs \u00a35 each way and takes 90 minutesFurther informationChilean tourist board: joinchile.com It's hard to find a more beautiful spot than Paraty, below: the colonial town sits between emerald-green hills and white-sand beaches. Its cobbled streets, lined with one-storey whitewashed buildings, attract a mix of backpackers, weekenders from Rio and the odd international celeb wafting through the boutiques, classy cafes and art galleries. Though you probably wouldn't find them tasting the wares in one of the town's six cacha\u00e7a distilleries.Recently declared a Unesco world heritage site, San Miguel de Allende is known for its colonial architecture, shops and culture. Its compact centre is filled with narrow streets, cobbled alleys and homes painted in muted ochre colours. The city is home to a large population of artists and writers, both native and foreign, and hosts regular music, dance and literary festivals. There are plenty of studios, galleries and design stores and a vibrant food scene, with some of Mexico's best-known chefs opening restaurants in the city.Arguably Colombia's most beautiful city, Cartagena combines striking colonial architecture and a vibrant cultural life without sacrificing reality: streets are still buzzing with locals and you can find yourself spending longer than expected people-watching in a coffee shop or just sitting in a square admiring the orange and yellow houses. It is especially good for literature lovers, who can take a Gabriel Garc\u00eda Ma\u00e1rquez tour (tourincartagena.com) of places mentioned in his novels; and the Hay literature festival holds an outpost event there each January.Unlike Granada, Nicaragua's other colonial-era city, Le\u00f3n has avoided the ossification that sometimes results from reliance on tourism. Families still sit on rockers on the porches and play basketball in the streets. And, thanks to a large student population and a strong cultural legacy (two of the nation's poets, Rub\u00e9n Dar\u00edo and Alfonso Cort\u00e9s, are from the city), Le\u00f3n has a vibrant intellectual life. The former homes of both Dar\u00edo and Cort\u00e9s are now museums; Fundaci\u00f3n Ortiz Gurdian showcases a wide selection of Nicaraguan and Latin American art; the city also has several beautifully renovated colonial-era churches. TL", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Art and design"], "title": "Chile cool: art, music and graffiti in laid-back Valpara\u00edso"},{"date": "2014-03-21T16:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Myrella Arcelis's family were at the heart of the dispute over the El Mauro dam near Caimanes, Chile, for eight years. While she and her son Angelo fought against the project, her other son worked for Antofogasta Minerals. For more than a a year, she refused to speak to him.\"For four and a half years I didn't speak to my brother. We had fistfights,\" said her son, Angelo Herrera, a local restaurant administrator who battled against first the mining project and then his own brother. \"When we saw each other in the streets, we yelled insults like 'sellout' and 'traitor'.\"What happened in her family reflects the strength of feeling about the dam in this remote community, 186 miles north of Santiago.Describing her sons' fights, Arcelis said, \"It was terrible, this is what most hurt me. We are such a united family and for years we didn't talk because of the mining conflict.\"When local activists first started opposing the mining project, Arcelis was convinced they could win. \"Our mission was against the dam, we never accepted any money, but sadly the power of money is so huge,\" she said. \"This was not about the money but about saving the valley \u2026 Ohhh! Did that change.\"A controversial settlement between the mining company and local landowners led to a $5m (\u00a33) payout to be divided among 117 local activists opposed to the mine. Given that the town has a population of barely 1,000, this generated major conflicts.\"People put their children, their brother, their sister on the list! These were people who had no role in the fight. The money was supposed to be divided among those who fought against the project. So I filed a lawsuit and we had the money frozen for five years.\"In September, after five years of legal wrangling, the money was released. A lawyer with a suitcase of cash, escorted by Chilean police, went through town disbursing part of the $5m.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Sustainability", "Ethical business", "Business", "Corporate social responsibility", "Environment", "Mining", "Mining", "Chile"], "title": "How the El Mauro dam has divided a family in the Caimanes community, Chile"},{"date": "2014-02-07T21:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "As the sun sets, the houses that cover the city's many hillsides change tone, chameleon-like, from strong and vibrant to dusky shades of pink, gold, sage and pale blue. On the park lawn, a trapeze artist is balancing on a high wire in the last fingers of sunshine and two actors rehearse their lines under the violet blooms of a jacaranda tree. In the auditorium at the far side of the park, in a high-ceilinged room with wooden floors and long black curtains, a small audience settles in to listen to a series of international musicians taking part in an experimental gig. Welcome to Friday evening, Valpara\u00edso-style.Only two hours from the Chilean capital of Santiago, Valpara\u00edso spreads across a series of hillsides that form a natural amphitheatre overlooking the sea. Where Santiago is all about business and government, Valpara\u00edso is more laid-back. Its streets are still pleasingly ramshackle in parts and it has the vague seediness that often characterises large ports. Chilean artists, writers and musicians have long made the city their home, drawn to its picturesque location and bohemian mores \u2013 Nobel prize-winning poet Pablo Neruda is one notable former resident. With its artistic vibe and slightly crumbling feel, Valpara\u00edso has an ambience akin to a smaller, seaside, Latin version of Berlin.Add in a $73m investment programme \u2013 the city was listed as a Unesco world heritage centre in 2003, prompting a much-needed influx of government funds \u2013 and Valpo, as the locals refer to it, is transforming into Chile's most creative city. It's also a burgeoning tourist destination.The city's former prison typifies its transformation. Formerly squatted by an art collective, it reopened in the summer of 2013 as a cultural centre, Parque Cultural de Valpara\u00edso, with a public park and a\u00a0new auditorium designed by HLPS, one of Chile's up-and-coming architecture practices. It's here I\u00a0watch musicians and acrobats at sunset. But you don't need to venture to the highbrow performance centre to find music, culture and art. The real action takes place in the streets that cover the city's cerros (hills).The most tourist-friendly of the hills are Cerro Alegre and Cerro Concepci\u00f3n. Twisting sharply upwards from the waterfront, these neighbouring barrios are home to galleries, restaurants, bars and hotels, all tucked away on quiet, cobbled streets lined with clapboard houses in kaleidoscopic colours. You can take a creaking funicular up the steepest slopes (the fare is 100 pesos, around 10p) or, if you walk, pause for breath on the climb and turn to see the pink, lemon, lime and ochre houses standing in contrast to the blue of the sky and deep indigo of the ocean.Alegre is the hub of the growing gallery scene. Among the best is Casa E, run by Emilio Lamarca, a charming former diplomat from Santiago who left his government role five years ago and moved to Valpara\u00edso to take a\u00a0punt on a growing interest in modern Chilean art.\"Nobody else was focusing on contemporary Latin American art and I felt there was a real need for a gallery that shows the quality of the work we have on offer here,\" he says.Today Casa E offers a varied programme of video pieces, installation art and photography, and runs an annual prize to promote the work of emerging artists.Another gallery worth a look is Bah\u00eda Ut\u00f3pica, which specialises in prints by Loro Coir\u00f3n, a French-born artist who has made his life in Valpara\u00edso. Coir\u00f3n's wood-block street scenes adorn the walls of local cafes and hotels and have an energy about them that is vividly redolent of a city whose grit and soul remain intact.Much of the art produced here, like Coiron's, spills out on to the streets. Local artists use the city as their canvas and street artists from around the world come to create intricate works on the buildings of Cerro Alegre.Local businesses embrace this creativity and the best street artists are paid for their work. At Hostal\u00a0Acuarela \u2013 the name means watercolour \u2013 Ana from reception takes me outside and proudly displays a wall covered with an intricate, India-inspired pattern by a street artist called Mono Type.\"We bartered with him: he painted the wall for us and stayed with us for free while he was doing it,\" she says.One of the best ways to appreciate all this public art is to take a tour with Valpo Street Art. Walks led by genial American expat Al \u2013 whose second job as a sommelier makes him a useful wine guide, too \u2013 take in the best pieces and, if you're in luck, give you a chance to meet the artists.Many of the paintings are intricate and complex works that require time to prepare and execute \u2013 walls need to sealed before painting if the piece is to last \u2013 so many artists ask for permission from the wall's owner before beginning. \"I'm meeting a German guy this afternoon who wants a couple of walls to work on,\" says Al. \"I think I know some places that might work.\"But Dave, an Australian artist, is dismissive of prepping and asking permission, muttering \"pussies\" under his breath when I mention it. \"I like simple, graphic designs and I work fast. I don't mind if the work doesn't last \u2013 that's the nature of street art.\"He promises to take me out to watch him work but then reveals that it's his birthday. So we wander to a\u00a0bar to drink pisco sours and set the world to rights instead. As befits a city of artists, Valpara\u00edso has no shortage of drinking opportunities. For a more refined ambience, stick to Concepci\u00f3n, where Bar de Pisco is the best place to try the local spirit and Fauna has a decent cocktail bar with a deck that makes the most of the sunset views over the city.For a more local vibe, Bar Liberty on Plaza Echaurren is a\u00a0great spot for lunch or a beer. It is a traditional Chilean drinking den, its clientele a mix of tradesmen, shopkeepers and artists. The row of hats lined up above the bar is testament to the drinking done here: if you fall asleep after one too many, the bar claims your hat as its own. Tourists are welcome enough, but are not fawned over, and you'll need to speak Spanish to order or chat.Locals in the city can be aloof at first. There's a sense, among some, that development in Valparaiso is being driven by foreign investment. Drinkers at Bar Liberty shrug, ambivalent, when I ask them about the new-look Valpo. \"Mostly it's foreigners who are making the money,\" says one.Younger locals are more upbeat. Valpo has a large student population and if you sit in a cafe in student-friendly Concepci\u00f3n or neighbouring areas such as Pante\u00f3n and Bellas Artes, you'll soon be chatting with locals sporting dreadlocks, piercings and tattoos, who'll be happy to share tips on which bars serve the best pisco and where to hear the latest band.Local band La Smala is one worth checking out and, especially at weekends, you can find all kinds of live music in bars throughout the city, from Chilean folk and pop to Latin fusion. Try L Bar (General Cruz, 335) in El Almendral and the bars on Cumming at the base of Cerro Pante\u00f3n.When it comes to food to soak up all that pisco, Vinilo (+56 32 223 0665, cafevinilo.cl) is worth a visit for a contemporary take on Chilean dishes such as shredded beef in a stylish roulade. Or try Puerto Claro , further up the hill on the corner of Calle Galos, for home-cooked, traditional-style food in what was once a living room.Valpo is waking up to its tourism potential and there are now plenty of places to stay that mirror the city's character. Fauna (doubles from $140) has striking views from its adobe-clad rooms, which also feature work by local artists. Next door, Via Via (doubles from around $71 B&B) is a great-value, art deco house that's been converted to an eco-friendly hotel by a Belgian couple. It has a lovely garden and a cafe serving Belgian specialities, such as mussels, as well as Chilean dishes.There are cheaper options, too: the above-mentioned Hostal Acuarela (+56 32 318 0456, hostalacuarela.cl) has dorm beds from $19 and doubles from $45 \u2013 as well as a terrace with unsurpassable views. Or for a true taste of Valpo spirit, try Casa Verde Lim\u00f3n ( doubles from \u00a312). The brightly painted bedrooms are scuffed and in need of a makeover, but in pride of place in the double-height living room is a trapeze that all guests are welcome to use.Flights were provided by Iberia, which flies from London Heathrow to Santiago via Madrid from \u00a3657 return, and from Manchester from \u00a3751 return. The bus from Santiago to Valpara\u00edso costs \u00a35 each way and takes 90 minutesFurther informationChilean tourist board: joinchile.com It's hard to find a more beautiful spot than Paraty, below: the colonial town sits between emerald-green hills and white-sand beaches. Its cobbled streets, lined with one-storey whitewashed buildings, attract a mix of backpackers, weekenders from Rio and the odd international celeb wafting through the boutiques, classy cafes and art galleries. Though you probably wouldn't find them tasting the wares in one of the town's six cacha\u00e7a distilleries.Recently declared a Unesco world heritage site, San Miguel de Allende is known for its colonial architecture, shops and culture. Its compact centre is filled with narrow streets, cobbled alleys and homes painted in muted ochre colours. The city is home to a large population of artists and writers, both native and foreign, and hosts regular music, dance and literary festivals. There are plenty of studios, galleries and design stores and a vibrant food scene, with some of Mexico's best-known chefs opening restaurants in the city.Arguably Colombia's most beautiful city, Cartagena combines striking colonial architecture and a vibrant cultural life without sacrificing reality: streets are still buzzing with locals and you can find yourself spending longer than expected people-watching in a coffee shop or just sitting in a square admiring the orange and yellow houses. It is especially good for literature lovers, who can take a Gabriel Garc\u00eda Ma\u00e1rquez tour (tourincartagena.com) of places mentioned in his novels; and the Hay literature festival holds an outpost event there each January.Unlike Granada, Nicaragua's other colonial-era city, Le\u00f3n has avoided the ossification that sometimes results from reliance on tourism. Families still sit on rockers on the porches and play basketball in the streets. And, thanks to a large student population and a strong cultural legacy (two of the nation's poets, Rub\u00e9n Dar\u00edo and Alfonso Cort\u00e9s, are from the city), Le\u00f3n has a vibrant intellectual life. The former homes of both Dar\u00edo and Cort\u00e9s are now museums; Fundaci\u00f3n Ortiz Gurdian showcases a wide selection of Nicaraguan and Latin American art; the city also has several beautifully renovated colonial-era churches. TL", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Art and design"], "title": "Chile cool: art, music and graffiti in laid-back Valpara\u00edso"},{"date": "2014-03-21T16:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Myrella Arcelis's family were at the heart of the dispute over the El Mauro dam near Caimanes, Chile, for eight years. While she and her son Angelo fought against the project, her other son worked for Antofogasta Minerals. For more than a a year, she refused to speak to him.\"For four and a half years I didn't speak to my brother. We had fistfights,\" said her son, Angelo Herrera, a local restaurant administrator who battled against first the mining project and then his own brother. \"When we saw each other in the streets, we yelled insults like 'sellout' and 'traitor'.\"What happened in her family reflects the strength of feeling about the dam in this remote community, 186 miles north of Santiago.Describing her sons' fights, Arcelis said, \"It was terrible, this is what most hurt me. We are such a united family and for years we didn't talk because of the mining conflict.\"When local activists first started opposing the mining project, Arcelis was convinced they could win. \"Our mission was against the dam, we never accepted any money, but sadly the power of money is so huge,\" she said. \"This was not about the money but about saving the valley \u2026 Ohhh! Did that change.\"A controversial settlement between the mining company and local landowners led to a $5m (\u00a33) payout to be divided among 117 local activists opposed to the mine. Given that the town has a population of barely 1,000, this generated major conflicts.\"People put their children, their brother, their sister on the list! These were people who had no role in the fight. The money was supposed to be divided among those who fought against the project. So I filed a lawsuit and we had the money frozen for five years.\"In September, after five years of legal wrangling, the money was released. A lawyer with a suitcase of cash, escorted by Chilean police, went through town disbursing part of the $5m.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Sustainability", "Ethical business", "Business", "Corporate social responsibility", "Environment", "Mining", "Mining", "Chile"], "title": "How the El Mauro dam has divided a family in the Caimanes community, Chile"},{"date": "2014-03-09T20:22:27Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Vice-President Joe Biden has given a stark assessment of the ongoing unrest in Venezuela, accusing President Nicol\u00e1s Maduro of widespread human rights violations and saying the situation reminded him of Latin America\u2019s troubled and violent past.In a written interview with El Mercurio of Chile, where Biden arrived on Sunday at the start of his seventh official visit to the region, he called the unstable situation in Venezuela \u201calarming\u201d and said the Caracas government lacked even basic respect for human rights.\u201cConfronting peaceful protesters with force and in some cases armed militias, limiting freedom of the press and assembly [\u2026] is not in line with the solid standards of democracy that we have in most of our hemisphere. The situation in Venezuela reminds me of past times, when strongmen governed using violence and oppression; human rights, hyperinflation, shortages and extreme poverty ravaged the peoples of the hemisphere,\u201d Biden wrote, according to the Spanish translation published by El Mercurio.Biden has flown to Chile with his wife Jill to attend the inauguration of Chile\u2019s new president, Michelle Bachelet, on Tuesday. The Venezuelan leader will also be present at the event.The White House said that while in Chile the vice-president will have one-to-one meetings with Bachelet and with presidents Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia, Ollanta Humala of Peru, and Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto of Mexico.For several weeks, Venezuela has been racked by clashes between government soldiers and student protesters backed by middle class Venezuelans disgruntled by extreme inflation and food shortages. Maduro has laid blame for the unrest against far-right provocateurs, the implication being that the US is fomenting the trouble.In his El Mercurio interview, Biden disputed the claim, riposting that Maduro was trying \u201cdistract his people from the most important issues that are in play in Venezuela by inventing totally false and outlandish conspiracies about the United States. Instead of that, he should listen to the Venezuelan people, and to look to the example of those leaders who resisted oppression in the Americas, or risk repeating the injustices they fought against so bravely.\u201dHe added a frank admission that previous US administrations had been propelled by the struggle against the Soviet Union to side with \u201cleaders who do not share our values\u201d \u2013 a reference to the backing given by Ronald Reagan and other US presidents to reactionary paramilitary groups and military governments across Latin America. \u201cHowever, the US finally stayed on the right side of history in places like Chile, where the [former] US ambassador Harry Barnes and others publicly defended the victims of repression,\u201d he said.He went on: \u201cWe recognise that some hangovers of the cold war remain, so that suspicion goes with the territory. But most people in the Americas are tired of fighting old ideological battles that don\u2019t help their daily lives at all.\u201d", "tags": ["Venezuela", "Joe Biden", "Chile", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "Joe Biden describes situation in Venezuela as 'alarming'"},{"date": "2014-02-07T21:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "As the sun sets, the houses that cover the city's many hillsides change tone, chameleon-like, from strong and vibrant to dusky shades of pink, gold, sage and pale blue. On the park lawn, a trapeze artist is balancing on a high wire in the last fingers of sunshine and two actors rehearse their lines under the violet blooms of a jacaranda tree. In the auditorium at the far side of the park, in a high-ceilinged room with wooden floors and long black curtains, a small audience settles in to listen to a series of international musicians taking part in an experimental gig. Welcome to Friday evening, Valpara\u00edso-style.Only two hours from the Chilean capital of Santiago, Valpara\u00edso spreads across a series of hillsides that form a natural amphitheatre overlooking the sea. Where Santiago is all about business and government, Valpara\u00edso is more laid-back. Its streets are still pleasingly ramshackle in parts and it has the vague seediness that often characterises large ports. Chilean artists, writers and musicians have long made the city their home, drawn to its picturesque location and bohemian mores \u2013 Nobel prize-winning poet Pablo Neruda is one notable former resident. With its artistic vibe and slightly crumbling feel, Valpara\u00edso has an ambience akin to a smaller, seaside, Latin version of Berlin.Add in a $73m investment programme \u2013 the city was listed as a Unesco world heritage centre in 2003, prompting a much-needed influx of government funds \u2013 and Valpo, as the locals refer to it, is transforming into Chile's most creative city. It's also a burgeoning tourist destination.The city's former prison typifies its transformation. Formerly squatted by an art collective, it reopened in the summer of 2013 as a cultural centre, Parque Cultural de Valpara\u00edso, with a public park and a\u00a0new auditorium designed by HLPS, one of Chile's up-and-coming architecture practices. It's here I\u00a0watch musicians and acrobats at sunset. But you don't need to venture to the highbrow performance centre to find music, culture and art. The real action takes place in the streets that cover the city's cerros (hills).The most tourist-friendly of the hills are Cerro Alegre and Cerro Concepci\u00f3n. Twisting sharply upwards from the waterfront, these neighbouring barrios are home to galleries, restaurants, bars and hotels, all tucked away on quiet, cobbled streets lined with clapboard houses in kaleidoscopic colours. You can take a creaking funicular up the steepest slopes (the fare is 100 pesos, around 10p) or, if you walk, pause for breath on the climb and turn to see the pink, lemon, lime and ochre houses standing in contrast to the blue of the sky and deep indigo of the ocean.Alegre is the hub of the growing gallery scene. Among the best is Casa E, run by Emilio Lamarca, a charming former diplomat from Santiago who left his government role five years ago and moved to Valpara\u00edso to take a\u00a0punt on a growing interest in modern Chilean art.\"Nobody else was focusing on contemporary Latin American art and I felt there was a real need for a gallery that shows the quality of the work we have on offer here,\" he says.Today Casa E offers a varied programme of video pieces, installation art and photography, and runs an annual prize to promote the work of emerging artists.Another gallery worth a look is Bah\u00eda Ut\u00f3pica, which specialises in prints by Loro Coir\u00f3n, a French-born artist who has made his life in Valpara\u00edso. Coir\u00f3n's wood-block street scenes adorn the walls of local cafes and hotels and have an energy about them that is vividly redolent of a city whose grit and soul remain intact.Much of the art produced here, like Coiron's, spills out on to the streets. Local artists use the city as their canvas and street artists from around the world come to create intricate works on the buildings of Cerro Alegre.Local businesses embrace this creativity and the best street artists are paid for their work. At Hostal\u00a0Acuarela \u2013 the name means watercolour \u2013 Ana from reception takes me outside and proudly displays a wall covered with an intricate, India-inspired pattern by a street artist called Mono Type.\"We bartered with him: he painted the wall for us and stayed with us for free while he was doing it,\" she says.One of the best ways to appreciate all this public art is to take a tour with Valpo Street Art. Walks led by genial American expat Al \u2013 whose second job as a sommelier makes him a useful wine guide, too \u2013 take in the best pieces and, if you're in luck, give you a chance to meet the artists.Many of the paintings are intricate and complex works that require time to prepare and execute \u2013 walls need to sealed before painting if the piece is to last \u2013 so many artists ask for permission from the wall's owner before beginning. \"I'm meeting a German guy this afternoon who wants a couple of walls to work on,\" says Al. \"I think I know some places that might work.\"But Dave, an Australian artist, is dismissive of prepping and asking permission, muttering \"pussies\" under his breath when I mention it. \"I like simple, graphic designs and I work fast. I don't mind if the work doesn't last \u2013 that's the nature of street art.\"He promises to take me out to watch him work but then reveals that it's his birthday. So we wander to a\u00a0bar to drink pisco sours and set the world to rights instead. As befits a city of artists, Valpara\u00edso has no shortage of drinking opportunities. For a more refined ambience, stick to Concepci\u00f3n, where Bar de Pisco is the best place to try the local spirit and Fauna has a decent cocktail bar with a deck that makes the most of the sunset views over the city.For a more local vibe, Bar Liberty on Plaza Echaurren is a\u00a0great spot for lunch or a beer. It is a traditional Chilean drinking den, its clientele a mix of tradesmen, shopkeepers and artists. The row of hats lined up above the bar is testament to the drinking done here: if you fall asleep after one too many, the bar claims your hat as its own. Tourists are welcome enough, but are not fawned over, and you'll need to speak Spanish to order or chat.Locals in the city can be aloof at first. There's a sense, among some, that development in Valparaiso is being driven by foreign investment. Drinkers at Bar Liberty shrug, ambivalent, when I ask them about the new-look Valpo. \"Mostly it's foreigners who are making the money,\" says one.Younger locals are more upbeat. Valpo has a large student population and if you sit in a cafe in student-friendly Concepci\u00f3n or neighbouring areas such as Pante\u00f3n and Bellas Artes, you'll soon be chatting with locals sporting dreadlocks, piercings and tattoos, who'll be happy to share tips on which bars serve the best pisco and where to hear the latest band.Local band La Smala is one worth checking out and, especially at weekends, you can find all kinds of live music in bars throughout the city, from Chilean folk and pop to Latin fusion. Try L Bar (General Cruz, 335) in El Almendral and the bars on Cumming at the base of Cerro Pante\u00f3n.When it comes to food to soak up all that pisco, Vinilo (+56 32 223 0665, cafevinilo.cl) is worth a visit for a contemporary take on Chilean dishes such as shredded beef in a stylish roulade. Or try Puerto Claro , further up the hill on the corner of Calle Galos, for home-cooked, traditional-style food in what was once a living room.Valpo is waking up to its tourism potential and there are now plenty of places to stay that mirror the city's character. Fauna (doubles from $140) has striking views from its adobe-clad rooms, which also feature work by local artists. Next door, Via Via (doubles from around $71 B&B) is a great-value, art deco house that's been converted to an eco-friendly hotel by a Belgian couple. It has a lovely garden and a cafe serving Belgian specialities, such as mussels, as well as Chilean dishes.There are cheaper options, too: the above-mentioned Hostal Acuarela (+56 32 318 0456, hostalacuarela.cl) has dorm beds from $19 and doubles from $45 \u2013 as well as a terrace with unsurpassable views. Or for a true taste of Valpo spirit, try Casa Verde Lim\u00f3n ( doubles from \u00a312). The brightly painted bedrooms are scuffed and in need of a makeover, but in pride of place in the double-height living room is a trapeze that all guests are welcome to use.Flights were provided by Iberia, which flies from London Heathrow to Santiago via Madrid from \u00a3657 return, and from Manchester from \u00a3751 return. The bus from Santiago to Valpara\u00edso costs \u00a35 each way and takes 90 minutesFurther informationChilean tourist board: joinchile.com It's hard to find a more beautiful spot than Paraty, below: the colonial town sits between emerald-green hills and white-sand beaches. Its cobbled streets, lined with one-storey whitewashed buildings, attract a mix of backpackers, weekenders from Rio and the odd international celeb wafting through the boutiques, classy cafes and art galleries. Though you probably wouldn't find them tasting the wares in one of the town's six cacha\u00e7a distilleries.Recently declared a Unesco world heritage site, San Miguel de Allende is known for its colonial architecture, shops and culture. Its compact centre is filled with narrow streets, cobbled alleys and homes painted in muted ochre colours. The city is home to a large population of artists and writers, both native and foreign, and hosts regular music, dance and literary festivals. There are plenty of studios, galleries and design stores and a vibrant food scene, with some of Mexico's best-known chefs opening restaurants in the city.Arguably Colombia's most beautiful city, Cartagena combines striking colonial architecture and a vibrant cultural life without sacrificing reality: streets are still buzzing with locals and you can find yourself spending longer than expected people-watching in a coffee shop or just sitting in a square admiring the orange and yellow houses. It is especially good for literature lovers, who can take a Gabriel Garc\u00eda Ma\u00e1rquez tour (tourincartagena.com) of places mentioned in his novels; and the Hay literature festival holds an outpost event there each January.Unlike Granada, Nicaragua's other colonial-era city, Le\u00f3n has avoided the ossification that sometimes results from reliance on tourism. Families still sit on rockers on the porches and play basketball in the streets. And, thanks to a large student population and a strong cultural legacy (two of the nation's poets, Rub\u00e9n Dar\u00edo and Alfonso Cort\u00e9s, are from the city), Le\u00f3n has a vibrant intellectual life. The former homes of both Dar\u00edo and Cort\u00e9s are now museums; Fundaci\u00f3n Ortiz Gurdian showcases a wide selection of Nicaraguan and Latin American art; the city also has several beautifully renovated colonial-era churches. TL", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Art and design"], "title": "Chile cool: art, music and graffiti in laid-back Valpara\u00edso"},{"date": "2014-03-21T16:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Myrella Arcelis's family were at the heart of the dispute over the El Mauro dam near Caimanes, Chile, for eight years. While she and her son Angelo fought against the project, her other son worked for Antofogasta Minerals. For more than a a year, she refused to speak to him.\"For four and a half years I didn't speak to my brother. We had fistfights,\" said her son, Angelo Herrera, a local restaurant administrator who battled against first the mining project and then his own brother. \"When we saw each other in the streets, we yelled insults like 'sellout' and 'traitor'.\"What happened in her family reflects the strength of feeling about the dam in this remote community, 186 miles north of Santiago.Describing her sons' fights, Arcelis said, \"It was terrible, this is what most hurt me. We are such a united family and for years we didn't talk because of the mining conflict.\"When local activists first started opposing the mining project, Arcelis was convinced they could win. \"Our mission was against the dam, we never accepted any money, but sadly the power of money is so huge,\" she said. \"This was not about the money but about saving the valley \u2026 Ohhh! Did that change.\"A controversial settlement between the mining company and local landowners led to a $5m (\u00a33) payout to be divided among 117 local activists opposed to the mine. Given that the town has a population of barely 1,000, this generated major conflicts.\"People put their children, their brother, their sister on the list! These were people who had no role in the fight. The money was supposed to be divided among those who fought against the project. So I filed a lawsuit and we had the money frozen for five years.\"In September, after five years of legal wrangling, the money was released. A lawyer with a suitcase of cash, escorted by Chilean police, went through town disbursing part of the $5m.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Sustainability", "Ethical business", "Business", "Corporate social responsibility", "Environment", "Mining", "Mining", "Chile"], "title": "How the El Mauro dam has divided a family in the Caimanes community, Chile"},{"date": "2014-03-09T20:22:27Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Vice-President Joe Biden has given a stark assessment of the ongoing unrest in Venezuela, accusing President Nicol\u00e1s Maduro of widespread human rights violations and saying the situation reminded him of Latin America\u2019s troubled and violent past.In a written interview with El Mercurio of Chile, where Biden arrived on Sunday at the start of his seventh official visit to the region, he called the unstable situation in Venezuela \u201calarming\u201d and said the Caracas government lacked even basic respect for human rights.\u201cConfronting peaceful protesters with force and in some cases armed militias, limiting freedom of the press and assembly [\u2026] is not in line with the solid standards of democracy that we have in most of our hemisphere. The situation in Venezuela reminds me of past times, when strongmen governed using violence and oppression; human rights, hyperinflation, shortages and extreme poverty ravaged the peoples of the hemisphere,\u201d Biden wrote, according to the Spanish translation published by El Mercurio.Biden has flown to Chile with his wife Jill to attend the inauguration of Chile\u2019s new president, Michelle Bachelet, on Tuesday. The Venezuelan leader will also be present at the event.The White House said that while in Chile the vice-president will have one-to-one meetings with Bachelet and with presidents Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia, Ollanta Humala of Peru, and Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto of Mexico.For several weeks, Venezuela has been racked by clashes between government soldiers and student protesters backed by middle class Venezuelans disgruntled by extreme inflation and food shortages. Maduro has laid blame for the unrest against far-right provocateurs, the implication being that the US is fomenting the trouble.In his El Mercurio interview, Biden disputed the claim, riposting that Maduro was trying \u201cdistract his people from the most important issues that are in play in Venezuela by inventing totally false and outlandish conspiracies about the United States. Instead of that, he should listen to the Venezuelan people, and to look to the example of those leaders who resisted oppression in the Americas, or risk repeating the injustices they fought against so bravely.\u201dHe added a frank admission that previous US administrations had been propelled by the struggle against the Soviet Union to side with \u201cleaders who do not share our values\u201d \u2013 a reference to the backing given by Ronald Reagan and other US presidents to reactionary paramilitary groups and military governments across Latin America. \u201cHowever, the US finally stayed on the right side of history in places like Chile, where the [former] US ambassador Harry Barnes and others publicly defended the victims of repression,\u201d he said.He went on: \u201cWe recognise that some hangovers of the cold war remain, so that suspicion goes with the territory. But most people in the Americas are tired of fighting old ideological battles that don\u2019t help their daily lives at all.\u201d", "tags": ["Venezuela", "Joe Biden", "Chile", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "Joe Biden describes situation in Venezuela as 'alarming'"},{"date": "2014-02-17T18:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Poverty and hunger will sadly always be with us. But in today's age of abundant calories, the poor may also be obese \u2013 something governments in Latin America are waking up to.These countries are fighting junk food directly with a slew of initiatives that are making the region an incubator for ideas that could be adopted elsewhere, including in the US. Chile, worried about expanding waistlines, has a new labeling system that comes into effect this year. The legislation forces food makers to emblazon packages with warning labels if their food is high in sugar, salt, calories or fat. There will also be a ban on advertising unhealthy products to children. \"This is absolutely astounding,\" Marion Nestle, the influential food blogger and professor of food policy at New York University told the Christian Science Monitor. \"I've never seen anything like this before.\"Jason Block, an assistant professor at the Harvard Medical School's obesity prevention program in Boston, believes Chile's moves show promise, especially as the country is using a comprehensive approach in fighting obesity.  \"This is important and has more chance of success than simply doing one thing,\" he said by email. \"Also, Chilean leaders seem willing to try a muted version of their proposal first and then build upon it after an initial trial period.\"The initiatives sweeping Latin America are making the region the world's laboratory for government policy aimed at steering consumers away from processed food.In a bold move last year, Mexico approved a tax of one peso (about eight cents) on each liter of sugary drinks sold as it tries to battle the country's obesity crisis. Other countries in Latin America have imposed taxes and banned McDonald's from using toys to promote meals for children. Peru, Uruguay and Costa Rica have cut junk food from public schools since 2012, while Ecuador has imposed food labeling using a traffic light system. Companies, for their part, feel they are being singled out. Arcos Dorados, the largest operator of McDonald's restaurants in Latin America and the Caribbean, has criticized moves by government to target its restaurants but has also made changes to its menus.\"We changed our Happy Meals, cutting calories, sugar and salt, by bringing in fresh fruit, the option of cherry tomatoes, smaller French fry portions,\u00a0and offering drinks of bottled water or milk,\" said Sonia Ruseler, senior director, corporate communications at Arcos Dorados.Outside of Latin America, however, fighting unhealthy foods with government decree has proved difficult. Denmark backed off on its sugar tax because the government found its citizens were crossing the border to avoid fat taxes. In New York, the courts struck down former mayor Michael Bloomberg's ban on super-size sugary drinks last year. The city's new mayor, Bill de Blasio, said he plans to pursue the issue but he will be up against the same deep pockets and creative campaigns of the food industry.While major food processors rail against restrictions on their business, major studies show an overabundance of sugar in food is at the root of many health issues. One study spearheaded by the University of California in San Francisco concluded that a 10% reduction in US sugar consumption would avert 240,000 diabetes cases annually, as well as prevent heart attacks and other health-related deaths.The US food industry has been successful in stopping a number of initiatives to label genetically modified foods and so it would be expected that other restrictions on their products would be fought with similar ferocity.Not all food makers, however, object to governmental labeling initiatives. Organic food packagers are enjoying strong sales, owing a lot to the fact they are not part of the industrial food complex.\"We are very concerned about worldwide increases in serious health issues, such as diabetes and obesity, and we are supportive of comprehensive efforts to help solve these problems,\" said Andy Berliner, CEO and co-founder of Amy's Kitchen, which markets itself as the country's \"leading natural frozen food brand\".He said the company supports food labeling for better choices, the labeling of GMOs and other nutritional information. \"Accurate labeling and nutrition education benefits the organic food industry, the global food industry as a whole, and ultimately everyone who eats!\"There are a number of state and city-level initiatives, but health critics believe countries such as the US need a national food and health policy, akin to efforts in Latin America. They warn the newly passed farm bill continues to subsidize large corporate food makers while other voices, such as first lady Michelle Obama, work piecemeal to promote healthy food choices.\"It doesn't make sense to tell people to eat vegetables and then produce junk; that leads only to bad health in the face of evident abundance,\" Mark Bittman, food columnist for the New York Times, argued in a recent column.The US is clearly a long way from implementing national food policy that counters the impulses of junk food, but it will have a ringside view of how such policies could work as countries to the south implement far reaching reform.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Governance", "Behaviour"], "title": "Latin America leads the fight against junk food with the US on the sidelines"},{"date": "2014-02-07T21:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "As the sun sets, the houses that cover the city's many hillsides change tone, chameleon-like, from strong and vibrant to dusky shades of pink, gold, sage and pale blue. On the park lawn, a trapeze artist is balancing on a high wire in the last fingers of sunshine and two actors rehearse their lines under the violet blooms of a jacaranda tree. In the auditorium at the far side of the park, in a high-ceilinged room with wooden floors and long black curtains, a small audience settles in to listen to a series of international musicians taking part in an experimental gig. Welcome to Friday evening, Valpara\u00edso-style.Only two hours from the Chilean capital of Santiago, Valpara\u00edso spreads across a series of hillsides that form a natural amphitheatre overlooking the sea. Where Santiago is all about business and government, Valpara\u00edso is more laid-back. Its streets are still pleasingly ramshackle in parts and it has the vague seediness that often characterises large ports. Chilean artists, writers and musicians have long made the city their home, drawn to its picturesque location and bohemian mores \u2013 Nobel prize-winning poet Pablo Neruda is one notable former resident. With its artistic vibe and slightly crumbling feel, Valpara\u00edso has an ambience akin to a smaller, seaside, Latin version of Berlin.Add in a $73m investment programme \u2013 the city was listed as a Unesco world heritage centre in 2003, prompting a much-needed influx of government funds \u2013 and Valpo, as the locals refer to it, is transforming into Chile's most creative city. It's also a burgeoning tourist destination.The city's former prison typifies its transformation. Formerly squatted by an art collective, it reopened in the summer of 2013 as a cultural centre, Parque Cultural de Valpara\u00edso, with a public park and a\u00a0new auditorium designed by HLPS, one of Chile's up-and-coming architecture practices. It's here I\u00a0watch musicians and acrobats at sunset. But you don't need to venture to the highbrow performance centre to find music, culture and art. The real action takes place in the streets that cover the city's cerros (hills).The most tourist-friendly of the hills are Cerro Alegre and Cerro Concepci\u00f3n. Twisting sharply upwards from the waterfront, these neighbouring barrios are home to galleries, restaurants, bars and hotels, all tucked away on quiet, cobbled streets lined with clapboard houses in kaleidoscopic colours. You can take a creaking funicular up the steepest slopes (the fare is 100 pesos, around 10p) or, if you walk, pause for breath on the climb and turn to see the pink, lemon, lime and ochre houses standing in contrast to the blue of the sky and deep indigo of the ocean.Alegre is the hub of the growing gallery scene. Among the best is Casa E, run by Emilio Lamarca, a charming former diplomat from Santiago who left his government role five years ago and moved to Valpara\u00edso to take a\u00a0punt on a growing interest in modern Chilean art.\"Nobody else was focusing on contemporary Latin American art and I felt there was a real need for a gallery that shows the quality of the work we have on offer here,\" he says.Today Casa E offers a varied programme of video pieces, installation art and photography, and runs an annual prize to promote the work of emerging artists.Another gallery worth a look is Bah\u00eda Ut\u00f3pica, which specialises in prints by Loro Coir\u00f3n, a French-born artist who has made his life in Valpara\u00edso. Coir\u00f3n's wood-block street scenes adorn the walls of local cafes and hotels and have an energy about them that is vividly redolent of a city whose grit and soul remain intact.Much of the art produced here, like Coiron's, spills out on to the streets. Local artists use the city as their canvas and street artists from around the world come to create intricate works on the buildings of Cerro Alegre.Local businesses embrace this creativity and the best street artists are paid for their work. At Hostal\u00a0Acuarela \u2013 the name means watercolour \u2013 Ana from reception takes me outside and proudly displays a wall covered with an intricate, India-inspired pattern by a street artist called Mono Type.\"We bartered with him: he painted the wall for us and stayed with us for free while he was doing it,\" she says.One of the best ways to appreciate all this public art is to take a tour with Valpo Street Art. Walks led by genial American expat Al \u2013 whose second job as a sommelier makes him a useful wine guide, too \u2013 take in the best pieces and, if you're in luck, give you a chance to meet the artists.Many of the paintings are intricate and complex works that require time to prepare and execute \u2013 walls need to sealed before painting if the piece is to last \u2013 so many artists ask for permission from the wall's owner before beginning. \"I'm meeting a German guy this afternoon who wants a couple of walls to work on,\" says Al. \"I think I know some places that might work.\"But Dave, an Australian artist, is dismissive of prepping and asking permission, muttering \"pussies\" under his breath when I mention it. \"I like simple, graphic designs and I work fast. I don't mind if the work doesn't last \u2013 that's the nature of street art.\"He promises to take me out to watch him work but then reveals that it's his birthday. So we wander to a\u00a0bar to drink pisco sours and set the world to rights instead. As befits a city of artists, Valpara\u00edso has no shortage of drinking opportunities. For a more refined ambience, stick to Concepci\u00f3n, where Bar de Pisco is the best place to try the local spirit and Fauna has a decent cocktail bar with a deck that makes the most of the sunset views over the city.For a more local vibe, Bar Liberty on Plaza Echaurren is a\u00a0great spot for lunch or a beer. It is a traditional Chilean drinking den, its clientele a mix of tradesmen, shopkeepers and artists. The row of hats lined up above the bar is testament to the drinking done here: if you fall asleep after one too many, the bar claims your hat as its own. Tourists are welcome enough, but are not fawned over, and you'll need to speak Spanish to order or chat.Locals in the city can be aloof at first. There's a sense, among some, that development in Valparaiso is being driven by foreign investment. Drinkers at Bar Liberty shrug, ambivalent, when I ask them about the new-look Valpo. \"Mostly it's foreigners who are making the money,\" says one.Younger locals are more upbeat. Valpo has a large student population and if you sit in a cafe in student-friendly Concepci\u00f3n or neighbouring areas such as Pante\u00f3n and Bellas Artes, you'll soon be chatting with locals sporting dreadlocks, piercings and tattoos, who'll be happy to share tips on which bars serve the best pisco and where to hear the latest band.Local band La Smala is one worth checking out and, especially at weekends, you can find all kinds of live music in bars throughout the city, from Chilean folk and pop to Latin fusion. Try L Bar (General Cruz, 335) in El Almendral and the bars on Cumming at the base of Cerro Pante\u00f3n.When it comes to food to soak up all that pisco, Vinilo (+56 32 223 0665, cafevinilo.cl) is worth a visit for a contemporary take on Chilean dishes such as shredded beef in a stylish roulade. Or try Puerto Claro , further up the hill on the corner of Calle Galos, for home-cooked, traditional-style food in what was once a living room.Valpo is waking up to its tourism potential and there are now plenty of places to stay that mirror the city's character. Fauna (doubles from $140) has striking views from its adobe-clad rooms, which also feature work by local artists. Next door, Via Via (doubles from around $71 B&B) is a great-value, art deco house that's been converted to an eco-friendly hotel by a Belgian couple. It has a lovely garden and a cafe serving Belgian specialities, such as mussels, as well as Chilean dishes.There are cheaper options, too: the above-mentioned Hostal Acuarela (+56 32 318 0456, hostalacuarela.cl) has dorm beds from $19 and doubles from $45 \u2013 as well as a terrace with unsurpassable views. Or for a true taste of Valpo spirit, try Casa Verde Lim\u00f3n ( doubles from \u00a312). The brightly painted bedrooms are scuffed and in need of a makeover, but in pride of place in the double-height living room is a trapeze that all guests are welcome to use.Flights were provided by Iberia, which flies from London Heathrow to Santiago via Madrid from \u00a3657 return, and from Manchester from \u00a3751 return. The bus from Santiago to Valpara\u00edso costs \u00a35 each way and takes 90 minutesFurther informationChilean tourist board: joinchile.com It's hard to find a more beautiful spot than Paraty, below: the colonial town sits between emerald-green hills and white-sand beaches. Its cobbled streets, lined with one-storey whitewashed buildings, attract a mix of backpackers, weekenders from Rio and the odd international celeb wafting through the boutiques, classy cafes and art galleries. Though you probably wouldn't find them tasting the wares in one of the town's six cacha\u00e7a distilleries.Recently declared a Unesco world heritage site, San Miguel de Allende is known for its colonial architecture, shops and culture. Its compact centre is filled with narrow streets, cobbled alleys and homes painted in muted ochre colours. The city is home to a large population of artists and writers, both native and foreign, and hosts regular music, dance and literary festivals. There are plenty of studios, galleries and design stores and a vibrant food scene, with some of Mexico's best-known chefs opening restaurants in the city.Arguably Colombia's most beautiful city, Cartagena combines striking colonial architecture and a vibrant cultural life without sacrificing reality: streets are still buzzing with locals and you can find yourself spending longer than expected people-watching in a coffee shop or just sitting in a square admiring the orange and yellow houses. It is especially good for literature lovers, who can take a Gabriel Garc\u00eda Ma\u00e1rquez tour (tourincartagena.com) of places mentioned in his novels; and the Hay literature festival holds an outpost event there each January.Unlike Granada, Nicaragua's other colonial-era city, Le\u00f3n has avoided the ossification that sometimes results from reliance on tourism. Families still sit on rockers on the porches and play basketball in the streets. And, thanks to a large student population and a strong cultural legacy (two of the nation's poets, Rub\u00e9n Dar\u00edo and Alfonso Cort\u00e9s, are from the city), Le\u00f3n has a vibrant intellectual life. The former homes of both Dar\u00edo and Cort\u00e9s are now museums; Fundaci\u00f3n Ortiz Gurdian showcases a wide selection of Nicaraguan and Latin American art; the city also has several beautifully renovated colonial-era churches. TL", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Cultural trips", "Travel", "Art and design"], "title": "Chile cool: art, music and graffiti in laid-back Valpara\u00edso"},{"date": "2014-03-21T16:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Myrella Arcelis's family were at the heart of the dispute over the El Mauro dam near Caimanes, Chile, for eight years. While she and her son Angelo fought against the project, her other son worked for Antofogasta Minerals. For more than a a year, she refused to speak to him.\"For four and a half years I didn't speak to my brother. We had fistfights,\" said her son, Angelo Herrera, a local restaurant administrator who battled against first the mining project and then his own brother. \"When we saw each other in the streets, we yelled insults like 'sellout' and 'traitor'.\"What happened in her family reflects the strength of feeling about the dam in this remote community, 186 miles north of Santiago.Describing her sons' fights, Arcelis said, \"It was terrible, this is what most hurt me. We are such a united family and for years we didn't talk because of the mining conflict.\"When local activists first started opposing the mining project, Arcelis was convinced they could win. \"Our mission was against the dam, we never accepted any money, but sadly the power of money is so huge,\" she said. \"This was not about the money but about saving the valley \u2026 Ohhh! Did that change.\"A controversial settlement between the mining company and local landowners led to a $5m (\u00a33) payout to be divided among 117 local activists opposed to the mine. Given that the town has a population of barely 1,000, this generated major conflicts.\"People put their children, their brother, their sister on the list! These were people who had no role in the fight. The money was supposed to be divided among those who fought against the project. So I filed a lawsuit and we had the money frozen for five years.\"In September, after five years of legal wrangling, the money was released. A lawyer with a suitcase of cash, escorted by Chilean police, went through town disbursing part of the $5m.Join the community of sustainability professionals and experts. Become a GSB member to get more stories like this direct to your inbox", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Sustainability", "Ethical business", "Business", "Corporate social responsibility", "Environment", "Mining", "Mining", "Chile"], "title": "How the El Mauro dam has divided a family in the Caimanes community, Chile"},{"date": "2014-03-09T20:22:27Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Vice-President Joe Biden has given a stark assessment of the ongoing unrest in Venezuela, accusing President Nicol\u00e1s Maduro of widespread human rights violations and saying the situation reminded him of Latin America\u2019s troubled and violent past.In a written interview with El Mercurio of Chile, where Biden arrived on Sunday at the start of his seventh official visit to the region, he called the unstable situation in Venezuela \u201calarming\u201d and said the Caracas government lacked even basic respect for human rights.\u201cConfronting peaceful protesters with force and in some cases armed militias, limiting freedom of the press and assembly [\u2026] is not in line with the solid standards of democracy that we have in most of our hemisphere. The situation in Venezuela reminds me of past times, when strongmen governed using violence and oppression; human rights, hyperinflation, shortages and extreme poverty ravaged the peoples of the hemisphere,\u201d Biden wrote, according to the Spanish translation published by El Mercurio.Biden has flown to Chile with his wife Jill to attend the inauguration of Chile\u2019s new president, Michelle Bachelet, on Tuesday. The Venezuelan leader will also be present at the event.The White House said that while in Chile the vice-president will have one-to-one meetings with Bachelet and with presidents Juan Manuel Santos of Colombia, Ollanta Humala of Peru, and Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto of Mexico.For several weeks, Venezuela has been racked by clashes between government soldiers and student protesters backed by middle class Venezuelans disgruntled by extreme inflation and food shortages. Maduro has laid blame for the unrest against far-right provocateurs, the implication being that the US is fomenting the trouble.In his El Mercurio interview, Biden disputed the claim, riposting that Maduro was trying \u201cdistract his people from the most important issues that are in play in Venezuela by inventing totally false and outlandish conspiracies about the United States. Instead of that, he should listen to the Venezuelan people, and to look to the example of those leaders who resisted oppression in the Americas, or risk repeating the injustices they fought against so bravely.\u201dHe added a frank admission that previous US administrations had been propelled by the struggle against the Soviet Union to side with \u201cleaders who do not share our values\u201d \u2013 a reference to the backing given by Ronald Reagan and other US presidents to reactionary paramilitary groups and military governments across Latin America. \u201cHowever, the US finally stayed on the right side of history in places like Chile, where the [former] US ambassador Harry Barnes and others publicly defended the victims of repression,\u201d he said.He went on: \u201cWe recognise that some hangovers of the cold war remain, so that suspicion goes with the territory. But most people in the Americas are tired of fighting old ideological battles that don\u2019t help their daily lives at all.\u201d", "tags": ["Venezuela", "Joe Biden", "Chile", "US foreign policy", "World news"], "title": "Joe Biden describes situation in Venezuela as 'alarming'"},{"date": "2014-02-17T18:30:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Poverty and hunger will sadly always be with us. But in today's age of abundant calories, the poor may also be obese \u2013 something governments in Latin America are waking up to.These countries are fighting junk food directly with a slew of initiatives that are making the region an incubator for ideas that could be adopted elsewhere, including in the US. Chile, worried about expanding waistlines, has a new labeling system that comes into effect this year. The legislation forces food makers to emblazon packages with warning labels if their food is high in sugar, salt, calories or fat. There will also be a ban on advertising unhealthy products to children. \"This is absolutely astounding,\" Marion Nestle, the influential food blogger and professor of food policy at New York University told the Christian Science Monitor. \"I've never seen anything like this before.\"Jason Block, an assistant professor at the Harvard Medical School's obesity prevention program in Boston, believes Chile's moves show promise, especially as the country is using a comprehensive approach in fighting obesity.  \"This is important and has more chance of success than simply doing one thing,\" he said by email. \"Also, Chilean leaders seem willing to try a muted version of their proposal first and then build upon it after an initial trial period.\"The initiatives sweeping Latin America are making the region the world's laboratory for government policy aimed at steering consumers away from processed food.In a bold move last year, Mexico approved a tax of one peso (about eight cents) on each liter of sugary drinks sold as it tries to battle the country's obesity crisis. Other countries in Latin America have imposed taxes and banned McDonald's from using toys to promote meals for children. Peru, Uruguay and Costa Rica have cut junk food from public schools since 2012, while Ecuador has imposed food labeling using a traffic light system. Companies, for their part, feel they are being singled out. Arcos Dorados, the largest operator of McDonald's restaurants in Latin America and the Caribbean, has criticized moves by government to target its restaurants but has also made changes to its menus.\"We changed our Happy Meals, cutting calories, sugar and salt, by bringing in fresh fruit, the option of cherry tomatoes, smaller French fry portions,\u00a0and offering drinks of bottled water or milk,\" said Sonia Ruseler, senior director, corporate communications at Arcos Dorados.Outside of Latin America, however, fighting unhealthy foods with government decree has proved difficult. Denmark backed off on its sugar tax because the government found its citizens were crossing the border to avoid fat taxes. In New York, the courts struck down former mayor Michael Bloomberg's ban on super-size sugary drinks last year. The city's new mayor, Bill de Blasio, said he plans to pursue the issue but he will be up against the same deep pockets and creative campaigns of the food industry.While major food processors rail against restrictions on their business, major studies show an overabundance of sugar in food is at the root of many health issues. One study spearheaded by the University of California in San Francisco concluded that a 10% reduction in US sugar consumption would avert 240,000 diabetes cases annually, as well as prevent heart attacks and other health-related deaths.The US food industry has been successful in stopping a number of initiatives to label genetically modified foods and so it would be expected that other restrictions on their products would be fought with similar ferocity.Not all food makers, however, object to governmental labeling initiatives. Organic food packagers are enjoying strong sales, owing a lot to the fact they are not part of the industrial food complex.\"We are very concerned about worldwide increases in serious health issues, such as diabetes and obesity, and we are supportive of comprehensive efforts to help solve these problems,\" said Andy Berliner, CEO and co-founder of Amy's Kitchen, which markets itself as the country's \"leading natural frozen food brand\".He said the company supports food labeling for better choices, the labeling of GMOs and other nutritional information. \"Accurate labeling and nutrition education benefits the organic food industry, the global food industry as a whole, and ultimately everyone who eats!\"There are a number of state and city-level initiatives, but health critics believe countries such as the US need a national food and health policy, akin to efforts in Latin America. They warn the newly passed farm bill continues to subsidize large corporate food makers while other voices, such as first lady Michelle Obama, work piecemeal to promote healthy food choices.\"It doesn't make sense to tell people to eat vegetables and then produce junk; that leads only to bad health in the face of evident abundance,\" Mark Bittman, food columnist for the New York Times, argued in a recent column.The US is clearly a long way from implementing national food policy that counters the impulses of junk food, but it will have a ringside view of how such policies could work as countries to the south implement far reaching reform.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Governance", "Behaviour"], "title": "Latin America leads the fight against junk food with the US on the sidelines"},{"date": "2014-01-10T14:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Michael Cera's acting like a real jerk these days. He's the guy who made his name in 2007 as a superdweeb in Superbad, hapless yet endlessly endearing, and subsequently mined similar territory in Juno and Scott Pilgrim Vs The World. Today, that awkward dork is all but dead and buried. In last year's apocalypse comedy This Is The End he presented a 180-degree subversion of his public image: playing himself, the real Michael Cera was apparently an obnoxious irritant who blew coke in people's faces. In his next two films he is equally insufferable. He also wants to show us his vagina. But more on that later.In Sebasti\u00e1n Silva's new film (full title: Crystal Fairy & The Magical Cactus), Cera is Jamie, an American in Chile, a drug bore on a quest to find a San Pedro cactus and trip out on the mescaline contained within. It's a role that came out of the blue. Having loved Silva's 2009 drama The Maid, Cera sought out the director and they hit it off. Silva sent him a script for a film called Magic Magic and Cera signed up, moving to Chile for a few months and living with Silva's family. As Magic Magic's funding dragged, Silva decided there and then to make a film about an experience he'd had years earlier. With just a 12-page outline, a handful of actors and a crew of six, they hopped in a van and went north, shooting on the fly and improvising dialogue.Crystal Fairy fizzes with spontaneity and energy, and thanks to Cera, Jamie is a wonderfully nuanced pig. At a party he meets a good-hearted but overbearing hippy chick who calls herself Crystal Fairy, invites her to join him and his buddies on their \"psychoactive voyage\", and then immediately regrets doing so. \"The thing I brought to it was him doing drugs for this very superficial reason, like a collector,\" says a perky Cera down the line from Toronto, where he's home for the holidays. \"He likes to brag about the drugs he's done, to be an academic about it. I know people like that. That's why it occurred to me that it would be fun to play, because it's annoying, and it's real.\"Cera likens his Crystal Fairy experience to \"a road trip with friends\", the lines blurring between real life and film-making. They shared two tiny cabins on the beach, piled atop of each other at night. \"Everything was very intimate,\" he says. \"We were really living it. The movie is more or less a document of this trip we were all going on. I didn't want it to end. I love watching it because of the memories.\" The film is infused with reality, from the locals playing themselves (including Gypsies and transvestite prostitutes) to the dogs rutting on the street and the consumption of the San Pedro juice. When Cera drinks it on camera, he's really drinking it. \"Sebasti\u00e1n suggested it very optionally: 'We could maybe do this, see what happens,'\" he says. \"He said: 'If everyone gets uncomfortable we can turn the camera off then the next day we can get back to work.' So it was very gentle. I was all for it. And it wasn't like the whole crew were doing it, so we wouldn't have a day where everyone's freaking out, it was just a way to see if anything interesting happened on camera. A few days leading up to it I was starting to have a little anxiety about just having to work, I didn't know what the effect was going to be. But we didn't actually feel anything. It just felt like we'd had a glass of wine. And we had such a rhythm shooting at that point, it was fine.\" How did it taste? \"Terrible. It's a really acrid, deep bitterness that fills your whole mouth. Earthy. Almost like a wheatgrass shot but much less sweet and a little thicker, swampier.\"Gaby Hoffmann, who plays Crystal Fairy, double-dipped and indeed underwent a 10-hour psychoactive voyage; she has described it as \"incredibly pleasant\", and spent much of the day intently caressing rocks. She drank from a different batch, although Silva has said she finds it easier to let go, and that Cera is more of a control freak. \"That's possible,\" says Cera. \"I do think our batch didn't work because it was the same for Sebasti\u00e1n's brothers [who co-star], nobody seemed to feel it. But yeah, I probably was trying to stay in control.\"In Magic Magic (out here in April), meanwhile, Cera excels as a spiteful, creepy, closeted homosexual. There was no concerted effort to change his image, he says, but deciding to go to Chile to work with Silva was important to him; he speaks of the experience, the films and the country very fondly. \"I only found out he was typecast when we started doing [US] press,\" says Silva, who had only seen Cera in Juno. \"People were so impressed that these roles were so different from everything else he's done. But it was never something we did on purpose. I wasn't trying to break him out of anything, but I was definitely a little shocked by how little of his range had been used. He had played this coy, nerdy character repeatedly, but that's not his fault, it's something that the industry in America tends to do, they're really good at typecasting people. Michael has an acute, ironic sense of humour. He's funny in a dark way.\"Cera is increasingly gravitating towards odder material, from the short films he stars in (and often writes and directs) for YouTube comedy collective Jash, to the recent New Yorker piece he penned, playing a yet more deluded, vain version of himself, at one point specifically addressing his typecasting. In the piece, as he forms a wonky relationship with someone who's been texting him in error, he begins anonymously, testing the water by inviting the texter to a party at his \"buddy Michael Cera's house\". \"He's cool,\" says the texter, who later also confuses him with Jesse Eisenberg. \"Really?\" replies Cera. \"You don't think his range is limited?\"Despite the dorkishness, there was always an otherness to Cera. Says Silva: \"I love the way he looks. His eyebrows, his smile, his physicality. It's kind of unusual and mysterious. Imagine how he's gonna look when he's 40. I can't wait to keep collaborating with him.\" Indeed, the pair plan to work together again soon, possibly for a film in which Cera plays a Hasidic Jew with no friends, and less possibly for a play called Anne The Lesbian.\"That's really our dream,\" says Silva. \"It's kind of a joke, but we make things out of jokes. I think Michael would play a really amazing woman. He would be a super-believable lesbian and I would like to make it even more believable by showing his vagina. We don't know what it's going to be, but that's an idea.\"\"That's the only idea,\" says Cera. \"If it's a five-minute play it would be great. If it's just a shower scene and I had a prosthetic vagina.\"Looking forward to it.Crystal Fairy is in UK cinemas on 17 Jan, available to download and on-demand from 24 Jan, and out on DVD on 27 Jan", "tags": ["Michael Cera", "Film", "Culture", "Crystal Fairy", "Superbad"], "title": "Michael Cera: from Superbad star to mescaline-soaked drug adventurer"},{"date": "2014-04-25T11:33:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is one of six countries that bans abortion even if a woman's life is in danger. In July, however, the country's MPs are expected to consider legalising it in certain circumstances. There has been speculation that Michelle Bachelet's election win in December could lead to a change in the law.Bachelet took up her presidency in March vowing to rewrite the constitution. She is a socialist, former paediatrician and was the first executive director of UN Women, when it was created in 2010. However, some rights activists remain sceptical that Bachelet would tackle such a controversial issue so soon after taking office. The president of the government's health committee, Marco N\u00fa\u00f1ez, who takes over as head of parliament's lower house next year, said Bachelet's centre-left Nueva Mayor\u00eda bloc's majority in both parliamentary chambers offered a conducive environment for change.N\u00fa\u00f1ez, in Stockholm this week for the International Parliamentarians' Conference that is assessing progress on the implementation of 20-year-old targets on women's rights, said he was confident legislation that would allow abortion when a woman's life was at risk, in cases or rape or when the foetus was not viable, would be voted into law next year.\"For the first time in 20 years we have a real majority to make changes \u2026 We are going to start discussions in July. We have the majority to vote and pass the law in the lower chamber, but also in the senate,\" said N\u00fa\u00f1ez, a former medical doctor.\"From an economic point of view, we have free trade agreements, we're reducing inequality now, and reducing poverty, but we still have a conservative constitution written under [Augusto] Pinochet. Conservative groups, especially the Catholic church, are pressing us to keep the status quo.\"N\u00fa\u00f1ez does not, however, underestimate the challenge advocates will face. In addition to the church and conservative groups, some politicians in Bachelet's ruling coalition are also expected to vote against the move, and the media is expected to take a pro-life stance. N\u00fa\u00f1ez said the mainstream media tended to label politicians who speak out in favour of abortion.\"We have a huge battle. It's going to be a scandal. Some conservative MPs say they are pro-life and we are the messengers of death. That this is the first step towards total abortion and free sex for adolescents,\" N\u00fa\u00f1ez said. But legalising abortion will bring Chile into the 21st century, he argues. \"We have to stand up to these people and groups.\"Karol Cariola, who was a key figure in the 2011 student protests in Chile  and was elected to parliament in November, said changes to the abortion law were part of a package of reforms to improve women's sexual and reproductive health in the country.\"Society has pushed politicians to take this position [to overturn the abortion ban],\" she said. \"For too many years these topics were under the carpet. There has been a lot of mobilisation going on, especially among women.\"Lilian Sep\u00falveda, director of the global legal programme at the Center for Reproductive Rights, welcomed the news. \"Michele Bachelet has been a strong advocate for gender equality and women's access to reproductive health services. She understands that absolute bans on abortion threaten the lives of women and girls.\"While the proposed abortion law reform will not give all Chilean women the right to decide the timing and size of their families, it is a step in the right direction.\"Chile's total ban on abortion was enshrined in the constitution in 1989 in one of Pinochet's final legislative acts. Previously, abortion had been allowed when a woman's life was at risk.Globally, unsafe abortions account for the deaths of close to 50,000 women a year. Some 98% of unsafe abortions take place in poorer countries. According to the World Health Organisation, Latin America and Caribbean countries have the highest rates of unsafe abortions.Chile's abortion ban was thrown into the international spotlight last year when thousands of activists marched through Santiago in support of an 11-year-old girl known as Belen who became pregnant after she was raped but was not allowed an abortion.Last month, Ipas, an NGO that campaigns to prevent deaths from unsafe abortion, the International Planned Parenthood Federation, and the Center for Reproductive Rights called for the repeal of all laws on abortion and for the removal of barriers to access safe abortion services.Liz Ford travelled to Stockholm with the European Parliamentary Forum on Population and Development\u2022 This article was amended on 9 May 2014. An earlier version incorrectly said that complications from illegal abortions performed in Chile accounted for about 40% of maternal deaths.", "tags": ["Maternal health", "Global development", "Abortion", "Chile", "Reproductive rights", "Women", "Health", "World news", "Americas", "Society"], "title": "Chile to reconsider abortion ban"},{"date": "2014-04-25T11:33:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is one of six countries that bans abortion even if a woman's life is in danger. In July, however, the country's MPs are expected to consider legalising it in certain circumstances. There has been speculation that Michelle Bachelet's election win in December could lead to a change in the law.Bachelet took up her presidency in March vowing to rewrite the constitution. She is a socialist, former paediatrician and was the first executive director of UN Women, when it was created in 2010. However, some rights activists remain sceptical that Bachelet would tackle such a controversial issue so soon after taking office. The president of the government's health committee, Marco N\u00fa\u00f1ez, who takes over as head of parliament's lower house next year, said Bachelet's centre-left Nueva Mayor\u00eda bloc's majority in both parliamentary chambers offered a conducive environment for change.N\u00fa\u00f1ez, in Stockholm this week for the International Parliamentarians' Conference that is assessing progress on the implementation of 20-year-old targets on women's rights, said he was confident legislation that would allow abortion when a woman's life was at risk, in cases or rape or when the foetus was not viable, would be voted into law next year.\"For the first time in 20 years we have a real majority to make changes \u2026 We are going to start discussions in July. We have the majority to vote and pass the law in the lower chamber, but also in the senate,\" said N\u00fa\u00f1ez, a former medical doctor.\"From an economic point of view, we have free trade agreements, we're reducing inequality now, and reducing poverty, but we still have a conservative constitution written under [Augusto] Pinochet. Conservative groups, especially the Catholic church, are pressing us to keep the status quo.\"N\u00fa\u00f1ez does not, however, underestimate the challenge advocates will face. In addition to the church and conservative groups, some politicians in Bachelet's ruling coalition are also expected to vote against the move, and the media is expected to take a pro-life stance. N\u00fa\u00f1ez said the mainstream media tended to label politicians who speak out in favour of abortion.\"We have a huge battle. It's going to be a scandal. Some conservative MPs say they are pro-life and we are the messengers of death. That this is the first step towards total abortion and free sex for adolescents,\" N\u00fa\u00f1ez said. But legalising abortion will bring Chile into the 21st century, he argues. \"We have to stand up to these people and groups.\"Karol Cariola, who was a key figure in the 2011 student protests in Chile  and was elected to parliament in November, said changes to the abortion law were part of a package of reforms to improve women's sexual and reproductive health in the country.\"Society has pushed politicians to take this position [to overturn the abortion ban],\" she said. \"For too many years these topics were under the carpet. There has been a lot of mobilisation going on, especially among women.\"Lilian Sep\u00falveda, director of the global legal programme at the Center for Reproductive Rights, welcomed the news. \"Michele Bachelet has been a strong advocate for gender equality and women's access to reproductive health services. She understands that absolute bans on abortion threaten the lives of women and girls.\"While the proposed abortion law reform will not give all Chilean women the right to decide the timing and size of their families, it is a step in the right direction.\"Chile's total ban on abortion was enshrined in the constitution in 1989 in one of Pinochet's final legislative acts. Previously, abortion had been allowed when a woman's life was at risk.Globally, unsafe abortions account for the deaths of close to 50,000 women a year. Some 98% of unsafe abortions take place in poorer countries. According to the World Health Organisation, Latin America and Caribbean countries have the highest rates of unsafe abortions.Chile's abortion ban was thrown into the international spotlight last year when thousands of activists marched through Santiago in support of an 11-year-old girl known as Belen who became pregnant after she was raped but was not allowed an abortion.Last month, Ipas, an NGO that campaigns to prevent deaths from unsafe abortion, the International Planned Parenthood Federation, and the Center for Reproductive Rights called for the repeal of all laws on abortion and for the removal of barriers to access safe abortion services.Liz Ford travelled to Stockholm with the European Parliamentary Forum on Population and Development\u2022 This article was amended on 9 May 2014. An earlier version incorrectly said that complications from illegal abortions performed in Chile accounted for about 40% of maternal deaths.", "tags": ["Maternal health", "Global development", "Abortion", "Chile", "Reproductive rights", "Women", "Health", "World news", "Americas", "Society"], "title": "Chile to reconsider abortion ban"},{"date": "2014-05-23T16:49:11Z", "country": "chile", "content": "For a whole year, a Chilean artist using the name Fried Potatoes (Papas Fritas) planned his revenge. Saying he was collecting material for an art project, the 31-year-old visual artist sneaked into a vault at a notorious private, run-for-profit university and quietly removed tuition contracts.Fried Potatoes \u2013 whose real name is Francisco Tapia \u2013 then burned the documents, rendering it nearly impossible for the Universidad del Mar to call in its debt \u2013 which he claimed was worth as much as $500m (\u00a3297m). \"It's over. You are all free of debt,\" he said in a five-minute video released earlier this month. Speaking to former students, he added: \"You don't have to pay a penny.\"Tapia's move is just the most radical of a three-year campaign by students and children to demand free, improved public education. With monthly marches\u2013 and four former student leaders elected to parliament \u2013 the students have built a potent citizen's movement rarely seen in post-Pinochet Chile.This week, they claimed their biggest victory so far when the president, Michelle Bachelet, outlined a multibillion-dollar package of educational reforms and invesment. \"Chile needs and the people have clamoured for this reform, which must transform quality education into a right,\" Bachelet said at a bill-signing ceremony. Her proposals include an end to state subsidies to for-profit universities and schools, and \u2013 potentially \u2013 the introduction of free university education for all. While Bachelet spoke, students outside the congressional hall scattered ashes from the burned Universidad del Mar documents in symbolic protest against for-profit educational scams.The ashes have since been converted into a mobile art exhibit built into the sides of a Volkswagen camper van. The back window of the van holds a video screen so that Tapia's message can be played to crowds of curious onlookers.The van, laden with ash, has toured the streets of Santiago and Valparaiso, and even went on display at the GAM \u2013 a prominent Santiago art gallery and cultural centre. When Chilean detectives, wearing white body suits, attempted to confiscate the fine grey dust as evidence, they too were incorporated into the exhibit's PR blitz and listed as \"media partners\".According to government investigators, the Universidad del Mar, in the swanky seaside resort of Renaca, was less a university than a money laundering operation. The university was shut last year, accreditations stripped away and thousands of students left with half a diploma \u2013 but who still found themselves lumbered with outstanding debts.Lawyers say that Tapia's destruction of the files does not technically rescind the debt, but it does make it extremely difficult to prove the debt exists. Only by formally testifying in court and acknowledging the debt would students now be forced to pay, said Mauricio Daza, a lawyer.Daza also argued that the debts were of questionable legality even before Fried Potatoes destroyed them. \"These debts are product of a fraud by the owners of the university over a long period of time,\" said Daza. \"They pretended to have a non-profit [university] but really it was all a cover-up for getting money from the students and the state and transferring those resources into the pockets of the university owners.\"Chilean students brought up the accusations of for-profit education schemes during huge street protests in 2011. As hundreds of universities and high schools were seized and occupied by teenage students, legislators began to investigate the charges. Eventually the students were proven right, university leaders were jailed and institutions shut down.Tapia said his plan was hatched after reading press accounts that Universidad del Mar students were being forced to pay debt even after the university was shut down.In a statement delivered to a Chilean court, Tapia defended his action. He claimed to have smuggled the documents to Santiago, where he began to investigate the credit files, case-by-case, student-by-student. By day Tapia would investigate the financial situation and life struggle of a single student. Then in the evening, he would destroy the documents related to that particular debt. \"Every night, like a ritual, I burned the documents that detailed the debt.\"A university spokesman confirmed the documents had been stolen but refused to quantify how much the papers were worth.Former Universidad del Mar students have celebrated the unorthodox protest. \"This is spectacular, this is the only victory we have had in economic terms,\" said Raul Soto, a spokesman for the former students. \"This gives us the peace of mind that we are not going to still be in debt to Universidad del Mar.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Students", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Chile students' debts go up in smoke"},{"date": "2014-04-25T11:33:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile is one of six countries that bans abortion even if a woman's life is in danger. In July, however, the country's MPs are expected to consider legalising it in certain circumstances. There has been speculation that Michelle Bachelet's election win in December could lead to a change in the law.Bachelet took up her presidency in March vowing to rewrite the constitution. She is a socialist, former paediatrician and was the first executive director of UN Women, when it was created in 2010. However, some rights activists remain sceptical that Bachelet would tackle such a controversial issue so soon after taking office. The president of the government's health committee, Marco N\u00fa\u00f1ez, who takes over as head of parliament's lower house next year, said Bachelet's centre-left Nueva Mayor\u00eda bloc's majority in both parliamentary chambers offered a conducive environment for change.N\u00fa\u00f1ez, in Stockholm this week for the International Parliamentarians' Conference that is assessing progress on the implementation of 20-year-old targets on women's rights, said he was confident legislation that would allow abortion when a woman's life was at risk, in cases or rape or when the foetus was not viable, would be voted into law next year.\"For the first time in 20 years we have a real majority to make changes \u2026 We are going to start discussions in July. We have the majority to vote and pass the law in the lower chamber, but also in the senate,\" said N\u00fa\u00f1ez, a former medical doctor.\"From an economic point of view, we have free trade agreements, we're reducing inequality now, and reducing poverty, but we still have a conservative constitution written under [Augusto] Pinochet. Conservative groups, especially the Catholic church, are pressing us to keep the status quo.\"N\u00fa\u00f1ez does not, however, underestimate the challenge advocates will face. In addition to the church and conservative groups, some politicians in Bachelet's ruling coalition are also expected to vote against the move, and the media is expected to take a pro-life stance. N\u00fa\u00f1ez said the mainstream media tended to label politicians who speak out in favour of abortion.\"We have a huge battle. It's going to be a scandal. Some conservative MPs say they are pro-life and we are the messengers of death. That this is the first step towards total abortion and free sex for adolescents,\" N\u00fa\u00f1ez said. But legalising abortion will bring Chile into the 21st century, he argues. \"We have to stand up to these people and groups.\"Karol Cariola, who was a key figure in the 2011 student protests in Chile  and was elected to parliament in November, said changes to the abortion law were part of a package of reforms to improve women's sexual and reproductive health in the country.\"Society has pushed politicians to take this position [to overturn the abortion ban],\" she said. \"For too many years these topics were under the carpet. There has been a lot of mobilisation going on, especially among women.\"Lilian Sep\u00falveda, director of the global legal programme at the Center for Reproductive Rights, welcomed the news. \"Michele Bachelet has been a strong advocate for gender equality and women's access to reproductive health services. She understands that absolute bans on abortion threaten the lives of women and girls.\"While the proposed abortion law reform will not give all Chilean women the right to decide the timing and size of their families, it is a step in the right direction.\"Chile's total ban on abortion was enshrined in the constitution in 1989 in one of Pinochet's final legislative acts. Previously, abortion had been allowed when a woman's life was at risk.Globally, unsafe abortions account for the deaths of close to 50,000 women a year. Some 98% of unsafe abortions take place in poorer countries. According to the World Health Organisation, Latin America and Caribbean countries have the highest rates of unsafe abortions.Chile's abortion ban was thrown into the international spotlight last year when thousands of activists marched through Santiago in support of an 11-year-old girl known as Belen who became pregnant after she was raped but was not allowed an abortion.Last month, Ipas, an NGO that campaigns to prevent deaths from unsafe abortion, the International Planned Parenthood Federation, and the Center for Reproductive Rights called for the repeal of all laws on abortion and for the removal of barriers to access safe abortion services.Liz Ford travelled to Stockholm with the European Parliamentary Forum on Population and Development\u2022 This article was amended on 9 May 2014. An earlier version incorrectly said that complications from illegal abortions performed in Chile accounted for about 40% of maternal deaths.", "tags": ["Maternal health", "Global development", "Abortion", "Chile", "Reproductive rights", "Women", "Health", "World news", "Americas", "Society"], "title": "Chile to reconsider abortion ban"},{"date": "2014-05-23T16:49:11Z", "country": "chile", "content": "For a whole year, a Chilean artist using the name Fried Potatoes (Papas Fritas) planned his revenge. Saying he was collecting material for an art project, the 31-year-old visual artist sneaked into a vault at a notorious private, run-for-profit university and quietly removed tuition contracts.Fried Potatoes \u2013 whose real name is Francisco Tapia \u2013 then burned the documents, rendering it nearly impossible for the Universidad del Mar to call in its debt \u2013 which he claimed was worth as much as $500m (\u00a3297m). \"It's over. You are all free of debt,\" he said in a five-minute video released earlier this month. Speaking to former students, he added: \"You don't have to pay a penny.\"Tapia's move is just the most radical of a three-year campaign by students and children to demand free, improved public education. With monthly marches\u2013 and four former student leaders elected to parliament \u2013 the students have built a potent citizen's movement rarely seen in post-Pinochet Chile.This week, they claimed their biggest victory so far when the president, Michelle Bachelet, outlined a multibillion-dollar package of educational reforms and invesment. \"Chile needs and the people have clamoured for this reform, which must transform quality education into a right,\" Bachelet said at a bill-signing ceremony. Her proposals include an end to state subsidies to for-profit universities and schools, and \u2013 potentially \u2013 the introduction of free university education for all. While Bachelet spoke, students outside the congressional hall scattered ashes from the burned Universidad del Mar documents in symbolic protest against for-profit educational scams.The ashes have since been converted into a mobile art exhibit built into the sides of a Volkswagen camper van. The back window of the van holds a video screen so that Tapia's message can be played to crowds of curious onlookers.The van, laden with ash, has toured the streets of Santiago and Valparaiso, and even went on display at the GAM \u2013 a prominent Santiago art gallery and cultural centre. When Chilean detectives, wearing white body suits, attempted to confiscate the fine grey dust as evidence, they too were incorporated into the exhibit's PR blitz and listed as \"media partners\".According to government investigators, the Universidad del Mar, in the swanky seaside resort of Renaca, was less a university than a money laundering operation. The university was shut last year, accreditations stripped away and thousands of students left with half a diploma \u2013 but who still found themselves lumbered with outstanding debts.Lawyers say that Tapia's destruction of the files does not technically rescind the debt, but it does make it extremely difficult to prove the debt exists. Only by formally testifying in court and acknowledging the debt would students now be forced to pay, said Mauricio Daza, a lawyer.Daza also argued that the debts were of questionable legality even before Fried Potatoes destroyed them. \"These debts are product of a fraud by the owners of the university over a long period of time,\" said Daza. \"They pretended to have a non-profit [university] but really it was all a cover-up for getting money from the students and the state and transferring those resources into the pockets of the university owners.\"Chilean students brought up the accusations of for-profit education schemes during huge street protests in 2011. As hundreds of universities and high schools were seized and occupied by teenage students, legislators began to investigate the charges. Eventually the students were proven right, university leaders were jailed and institutions shut down.Tapia said his plan was hatched after reading press accounts that Universidad del Mar students were being forced to pay debt even after the university was shut down.In a statement delivered to a Chilean court, Tapia defended his action. He claimed to have smuggled the documents to Santiago, where he began to investigate the credit files, case-by-case, student-by-student. By day Tapia would investigate the financial situation and life struggle of a single student. Then in the evening, he would destroy the documents related to that particular debt. \"Every night, like a ritual, I burned the documents that detailed the debt.\"A university spokesman confirmed the documents had been stolen but refused to quantify how much the papers were worth.Former Universidad del Mar students have celebrated the unorthodox protest. \"This is spectacular, this is the only victory we have had in economic terms,\" said Raul Soto, a spokesman for the former students. \"This gives us the peace of mind that we are not going to still be in debt to Universidad del Mar.\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Students", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Chile students' debts go up in smoke"},{"date": "2014-05-15T17:34:50Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Catholic church in Chile is under investigation over allegations that priests played a central role in a network that stole newborn babies from single mothers.Police investigators are now probing dozens of cases in which unmarried women who became pregnant were pressured by priests to give up their child for adoption. Those who refused were anaesthetised during delivery and, upon awakening, told that the child had died. The healthy babies were hidden from their biological mothers and given away in order to be raised by married couples in \"traditional\" Catholic families.Church leaders now admit they have known about the network for at least 10 years. Unlike in Spain and Argentina, where babies were stolen from families considered to be too poor or too subversive to raise the children well, the motivation in Chile was to shield the reputations of well-off families from the social stigma of unmarried motherhood.Most of the cases now being investigated date from the 1970s and 1980s, but some were reported in 2005.Chile's child protection agency \u2013 Sername \u2013 has now opened an investigation and is working with detectives to determine how many children are involved.Documents from the Sername investigation describe how parents were tricked into believing that their baby had died.Matias Troncoso, 33, a well-known Chilean photographer, was one such baby. Troncoso always knew he was adopted, but when he began asking questions about his biological mother, the answers did not add up. His birth was not registered until he was six years old, and the clinic where he was born refused to release his records.The doctor who delivered him was losing his memory, but enough details leaked out that Troncoso began to suspect a plot.Last month his suspicions were confirmed when Chilean investigative news site Ciper reported the allegations. In a series of online articles, the collective's reporters tracked down and documented an underground network of wealthy families, gynaecologists, social workers, lawyers and, at the heart of the scheme, Gerardo Joannon, a gregarious and popular priest.Troncoso, who ended up as the single son of a loving, upper-class family, had nothing but praise for his adoptive parents and said they never hid the fact that he was adopted. But he was extremely critical of the role played by the church. \"They had funerals with empty caskets,\" he said.Father Joannon has admitted working with 10 doctors who helped coordinate the adoptions. \"A young single woman who had a baby was looked at very badly,\" he said when confronted by Ciper reporters in March. \"I wouldn't say it scrubbed out their life, but it was something close to that. Nobody wanted to marry them.\"Joannon insists his role was limited. He told Ciper: \"The only thing I did was put [the pregnant young women] in contact with a doctor who made the effort to find families that were desiring to have a child.\"Interviewed by a Chilean TV crew, Joannon declared, \"I am not going to help [the investigation] with anything, I have nothing left to say.\" Church officials then announced that Joannon has been ordered to refrain from speaking further about the cases, which investigators now believe involves six Santiago-area hospitals.Father Joannon insists he only participated in underground adoptions in which the biological mother agreed to \"donate\" the baby to a second family. But at least one mother has said he pressured her to give up her child, and alleges that when she refused, he participated in the disappearance of her newborn daughter. A second mother described Joannon stalking the maternity ward, pressuring her to hand over her newborn.Several other priests are alleged to have been involved in the scheme, but have not been named.Catholic leaders in Chile have distanced themselves from Joannon. His weekly mass was suspended in April and Alex Vigueras, a spokesman for the church said it was clear that the babies were taken without consent. \"What I find most troubling is to have said that the children died, knowing that it was not the case.\"Vigueras said that Joannon and the baby-snatching ring had \"committed an injustice \u2026 various rights have been violated.\" In a communiqu\u00e9 from the church, Vigueras promised to collaborate with investigations by Chilean law enforcement agencies.A website set up by victims has logged dozens of alleged cases. Some of the inquiries come from parents looking for their children and others from children looking for their parents.\"Joannon made the contacts but he is just one lead on this problem,\" said Arturo Fellay, whose wife is searching for her biological parents. \"There are many other cases of boys and girls who were said to be dead and were taken away or given or sold to families under a secret that was kept for years.\"Asked about the ethics and honesty of holding funeral services for newborn children who in fact were alive, Joannon told reporters from Ciper, \"I never held a funeral mass \u2026 these were masses where thanks were given to God for that day in which the young woman made such a tremendous sacrifice.\"Pressed with evidence by parents that funeral services were indeed held, Joannon then said he was \"sure that [the baby] was dead. The doctor told me [the baby] was dead.\"Troncoso, the photographer who is now searching for his biological mother wants answers. \"I don't know my birthday. I don't know my [biological] mother\" he said. \"These woman entered the clinic. They were put to sleep and when they woke up were told 'Your baby has died.' Basically it was kidnapping.\"Troncoso says he is not interested in filing criminal charges. \"Justice is not just the whip of vengeance,\" he said. \"It's essentially about truth. How can you take a baby from a mother and convince yourself that you are doing a good deed?\"", "tags": ["Chile", "Catholicism", "Human rights", "Law", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chile: Catholic priests investigated over stolen babies"},{"date": "2014-09-01T16:43:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In Nogales, Chile, water is scarce, and the community has a limited supply. Carol Poblete, one of our community relations analysts, worked with both families and the municipality to find a solution. Hear her story.Copy on this page is provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hubOther articles of interest from Anglo American:", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone"], "title": "Securing water for a village in Chile - video"},{"date": "2014-10-28T21:33:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The grandson of Augusto Pinochet is organising followers of the former dictator to launch a political party in Chile.\u201cRepublican Order My Country\u201d [Orden Republicano Mi Patria] is the name of the political movement. It condemns gay marriage yet supports legalised marijuana and reforms to the Pinochet-era constitution.Though the pro-Pinochet forces have been organised for at least six years as a movement known as \u201cFor My Country\u201d, after the arrest of a top Pinochet aide last week, Augusto Pinochet Molina, grandson of the dictator, stepped up formation of what supporters described as a centre-right political party.While the proposed party acknowledges that the military abused citizens, they never speak of a dictatorship but of a \u201cmilitary government\u201d followed by \u201ca witch hunt\u201d and a \u201cvendetta\u201d that jailed dozens of officers for the murder and disappearance of some 3,200 Chileans during the 17 years of Pinochet\u2019s rule.Pinochet Molina this week also sent out hundreds of invitations to the 99th birthday party of the dictator to be celebrated on 25 November. The location remains secret but among the invited guests is Cristian Labb\u00e9, a former Pinochet bodyguard charged last week with being part of a conspiracy to kidnap and murder 13 political prisoners.A former captain in the Chilean army, Pinochet Molina was kicked out of the military after an impromptu speech he made at his grandfather\u2019s 2006 funeral in Santiago, in which he applauded his grandfather\u2019s campaign to \u201cdefeat Marxism\u201d in Chile. A one time candidate for congress, Pinochet Molina is now positioning himself to run for office again.\u201cAugusto wanted to invite him because it is known that Labb\u00e9 is a grand admirer of his grandfather, so for that very reason it would be an honour,\u201d said Paolo Zarate, general secretary of For My Country in an interview.Pinochet Molina\u2019s decision to launch a political party is the latest salvo in a battle to lay claim to the now-deceased dictator\u2019s legacy. For nearly a quarter of a century, the rightwing UDI party has held a lock on what Chilean pollsters call \u201cthe military family\u201d, a conservative and influential bloc of voters. But moves to shut down a country club-style prison for imprisoned military officers and ongoing efforts to jail human rights violators has led to claims that even the pro-Pinochet UDI party has abandoned their former hero.When Labb\u00e9 was detained last week, a parade of rightwing politicians including senators went to honour their former colleague, though they sought to describe the visit as purely \u201chumane\u201d and not political.\u201cIt is a party destined to be minority and most of all fascist,\u201d said Chilean senator Alejandro Navarro in an interview with CNN.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Augusto Pinochet\u2019s grandson to launch new rightwing party in Chile"},{"date": "2014-10-28T21:33:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The grandson of Augusto Pinochet is organising followers of the former dictator to launch a political party in Chile.\u201cRepublican Order My Country\u201d [Orden Republicano Mi Patria] is the name of the political movement. It condemns gay marriage yet supports legalised marijuana and reforms to the Pinochet-era constitution.Though the pro-Pinochet forces have been organised for at least six years as a movement known as \u201cFor My Country\u201d, after the arrest of a top Pinochet aide last week, Augusto Pinochet Molina, grandson of the dictator, stepped up formation of what supporters described as a centre-right political party.While the proposed party acknowledges that the military abused citizens, they never speak of a dictatorship but of a \u201cmilitary government\u201d followed by \u201ca witch hunt\u201d and a \u201cvendetta\u201d that jailed dozens of officers for the murder and disappearance of some 3,200 Chileans during the 17 years of Pinochet\u2019s rule.Pinochet Molina this week also sent out hundreds of invitations to the 99th birthday party of the dictator to be celebrated on 25 November. The location remains secret but among the invited guests is Cristian Labb\u00e9, a former Pinochet bodyguard charged last week with being part of a conspiracy to kidnap and murder 13 political prisoners.A former captain in the Chilean army, Pinochet Molina was kicked out of the military after an impromptu speech he made at his grandfather\u2019s 2006 funeral in Santiago, in which he applauded his grandfather\u2019s campaign to \u201cdefeat Marxism\u201d in Chile. A one time candidate for congress, Pinochet Molina is now positioning himself to run for office again.\u201cAugusto wanted to invite him because it is known that Labb\u00e9 is a grand admirer of his grandfather, so for that very reason it would be an honour,\u201d said Paolo Zarate, general secretary of For My Country in an interview.Pinochet Molina\u2019s decision to launch a political party is the latest salvo in a battle to lay claim to the now-deceased dictator\u2019s legacy. For nearly a quarter of a century, the rightwing UDI party has held a lock on what Chilean pollsters call \u201cthe military family\u201d, a conservative and influential bloc of voters. But moves to shut down a country club-style prison for imprisoned military officers and ongoing efforts to jail human rights violators has led to claims that even the pro-Pinochet UDI party has abandoned their former hero.When Labb\u00e9 was detained last week, a parade of rightwing politicians including senators went to honour their former colleague, though they sought to describe the visit as purely \u201chumane\u201d and not political.\u201cIt is a party destined to be minority and most of all fascist,\u201d said Chilean senator Alejandro Navarro in an interview with CNN.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Augusto Pinochet\u2019s grandson to launch new rightwing party in Chile"},{"date": "2014-10-29T07:00:05Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Historically, Chile has imported the majority of its energy at great cost to its poorest citizens. Chileans in remote communities which rely on diesel generators for their electricity supply pay more than twice the amount per kilowatt hour than people do in the UK. They pay as much as 35p/kwh while UK customers are currently paying an average of 14p/kwh.\u201cChile is the second least self-sufficient country in Latin America after Panama, and currently imports 75% of its energy resources,\u201d says Christoph Tagwerker, a consultant at Inter-American Development Bank. Access to drinking water is also a problem. Chileans in isolated communities are reliant on tankers for delivering water, which is costly. Settlements in the north of Chile (Norte Grande, Norte Chico) and in the far south (Aysen, Magallenes and Chile\u2019s off shore islands) could all benefit from desalination projects that turn sea water into drinking water \u2013 if they had a cheap source of electricity to power these projects.But with a little help from Scotland, Chile may be on course to make a dramatic reversal in its energy fortunes. Experts in Scotland think that renewable energy from the sea \u2013 wave and tidal energy \u2013 could provide cheap electricity to Chile\u2019s remote communities and be used to power desalination and water pumping.Gareth Davies is managing director of Aquatera, a Scottish renewable energy consultancy with many years of experience in marine energy. \u201cIn terms of wave-energy resource Chile is one of the richest, if not the richest countries in the world,\u201d he says. \u201cIt\u2019s coastline receives more wave energy than any other country in the world.\u201d The total available wave resource in Chile is estimated to be 240 gigawatts \u2013 10 times more electricity than it currently uses.Theoretically, Chile has enough resources to become an energy exporter. At some point in the future, when a cost-effective way of transporting energy long distance has been found.It\u2019s still early days, but the Chilean government has awarded the contract to launch a centre of excellence in marine energy and pilot schemes are expected to be launched soon. Aquatera has been working to develop marine energy in Chile for six years, and Davies wants Chile to benefit from Scotland\u2019s experience, leapfrogging some of the mistakes they made. \u201cScotland didn\u2019t focus on the need to develop grids, ports and the supply chain technology,\u201d he says. \u201cWe didn\u2019t realise how important [associated infrastructure] was. It\u2019s been left to the supply chain and local authorities to make those things happen.\u201dThe situation in Chile is slightly different as its energy markets are local rather than national. From a geographical perspective this is entirely logical; Chile is a long strip of a country, running down the west coast of South America, between the Pacific Ocean and the Andes. It ranges from hot desert in the north, to freezing lands in the south, and in between there are fjords, opens coasts and offshore islands. Each of those regions presents different opportunities for energy generation and different markets for energy supply. The electricity grid in Chile is patchy; it has a little bit of solar here, some conventional power plants there, and thousands of people in remote areas completely dependent on expensive shipments of diesel, which they use to power small-scale generators. It makes far more sense to bring the energy on land from the coast to the towns on a longitudinal basis \u2013 rather than trying to bring it in at one point and run it through a national grid to inaccessible places. Davies says that Chile is well-equipped with the skills needed to implement a marine energy strategy:\u201cChile is leading the way economically in South America. It\u2019s got a tradition of shipbuilding, of fishing, of aquaculture; it\u2019s got an extensive electro-engineering network and a huge tradition of mining. Those industries provide a skills base that is equal or better than others in terms of the deployment of technology.\u201dDavies adds that the country is attractive to investors: \u201cLots of people inside and outside Chile are interested in it as an investment location because of its strong economic performance.\u201d A report by Aquatera for the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office says that marine energy will be as cheap as most other forms of energy in Chile by 2020, and that it is already \u2013 even in these very early days \u2013 on a par with the price people are paying for diesel electricity in the remote areas.There are commercial markets that are already viable and prices always come down once a technology is implemented on a larger scale. Now it\u2019s just a matter of getting on with it.Read more stories like this:\u2022 From Cape Town to Kinshasa: could the Great Inga dam power half of Africa?\u2022 Why has \u2018microhydro\u2019 been neglected as a solution to energy poverty?\u2022 Can coffee stimulate renewable energy in Central America?\u2022 Advertisment feature: Barefoot inspiration: power to the people, from the peopleJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter. ", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Renewable energy: access and investment - global development professionals network", "Race and inequality", "Scotland", "Wave and tidal power", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Engineering", "Access to water", "Water"], "title": "Scottish sea power: driving down energy prices in Chile"},{"date": "2014-10-28T21:33:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The grandson of Augusto Pinochet is organising followers of the former dictator to launch a political party in Chile.\u201cRepublican Order My Country\u201d [Orden Republicano Mi Patria] is the name of the political movement. It condemns gay marriage yet supports legalised marijuana and reforms to the Pinochet-era constitution.Though the pro-Pinochet forces have been organised for at least six years as a movement known as \u201cFor My Country\u201d, after the arrest of a top Pinochet aide last week, Augusto Pinochet Molina, grandson of the dictator, stepped up formation of what supporters described as a centre-right political party.While the proposed party acknowledges that the military abused citizens, they never speak of a dictatorship but of a \u201cmilitary government\u201d followed by \u201ca witch hunt\u201d and a \u201cvendetta\u201d that jailed dozens of officers for the murder and disappearance of some 3,200 Chileans during the 17 years of Pinochet\u2019s rule.Pinochet Molina this week also sent out hundreds of invitations to the 99th birthday party of the dictator to be celebrated on 25 November. The location remains secret but among the invited guests is Cristian Labb\u00e9, a former Pinochet bodyguard charged last week with being part of a conspiracy to kidnap and murder 13 political prisoners.A former captain in the Chilean army, Pinochet Molina was kicked out of the military after an impromptu speech he made at his grandfather\u2019s 2006 funeral in Santiago, in which he applauded his grandfather\u2019s campaign to \u201cdefeat Marxism\u201d in Chile. A one time candidate for congress, Pinochet Molina is now positioning himself to run for office again.\u201cAugusto wanted to invite him because it is known that Labb\u00e9 is a grand admirer of his grandfather, so for that very reason it would be an honour,\u201d said Paolo Zarate, general secretary of For My Country in an interview.Pinochet Molina\u2019s decision to launch a political party is the latest salvo in a battle to lay claim to the now-deceased dictator\u2019s legacy. For nearly a quarter of a century, the rightwing UDI party has held a lock on what Chilean pollsters call \u201cthe military family\u201d, a conservative and influential bloc of voters. But moves to shut down a country club-style prison for imprisoned military officers and ongoing efforts to jail human rights violators has led to claims that even the pro-Pinochet UDI party has abandoned their former hero.When Labb\u00e9 was detained last week, a parade of rightwing politicians including senators went to honour their former colleague, though they sought to describe the visit as purely \u201chumane\u201d and not political.\u201cIt is a party destined to be minority and most of all fascist,\u201d said Chilean senator Alejandro Navarro in an interview with CNN.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Augusto Pinochet\u2019s grandson to launch new rightwing party in Chile"},{"date": "2014-10-29T07:00:05Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Historically, Chile has imported the majority of its energy at great cost to its poorest citizens. Chileans in remote communities which rely on diesel generators for their electricity supply pay more than twice the amount per kilowatt hour than people do in the UK. They pay as much as 35p/kwh while UK customers are currently paying an average of 14p/kwh.\u201cChile is the second least self-sufficient country in Latin America after Panama, and currently imports 75% of its energy resources,\u201d says Christoph Tagwerker, a consultant at Inter-American Development Bank. Access to drinking water is also a problem. Chileans in isolated communities are reliant on tankers for delivering water, which is costly. Settlements in the north of Chile (Norte Grande, Norte Chico) and in the far south (Aysen, Magallenes and Chile\u2019s off shore islands) could all benefit from desalination projects that turn sea water into drinking water \u2013 if they had a cheap source of electricity to power these projects.But with a little help from Scotland, Chile may be on course to make a dramatic reversal in its energy fortunes. Experts in Scotland think that renewable energy from the sea \u2013 wave and tidal energy \u2013 could provide cheap electricity to Chile\u2019s remote communities and be used to power desalination and water pumping.Gareth Davies is managing director of Aquatera, a Scottish renewable energy consultancy with many years of experience in marine energy. \u201cIn terms of wave-energy resource Chile is one of the richest, if not the richest countries in the world,\u201d he says. \u201cIt\u2019s coastline receives more wave energy than any other country in the world.\u201d The total available wave resource in Chile is estimated to be 240 gigawatts \u2013 10 times more electricity than it currently uses.Theoretically, Chile has enough resources to become an energy exporter. At some point in the future, when a cost-effective way of transporting energy long distance has been found.It\u2019s still early days, but the Chilean government has awarded the contract to launch a centre of excellence in marine energy and pilot schemes are expected to be launched soon. Aquatera has been working to develop marine energy in Chile for six years, and Davies wants Chile to benefit from Scotland\u2019s experience, leapfrogging some of the mistakes they made. \u201cScotland didn\u2019t focus on the need to develop grids, ports and the supply chain technology,\u201d he says. \u201cWe didn\u2019t realise how important [associated infrastructure] was. It\u2019s been left to the supply chain and local authorities to make those things happen.\u201dThe situation in Chile is slightly different as its energy markets are local rather than national. From a geographical perspective this is entirely logical; Chile is a long strip of a country, running down the west coast of South America, between the Pacific Ocean and the Andes. It ranges from hot desert in the north, to freezing lands in the south, and in between there are fjords, opens coasts and offshore islands. Each of those regions presents different opportunities for energy generation and different markets for energy supply. The electricity grid in Chile is patchy; it has a little bit of solar here, some conventional power plants there, and thousands of people in remote areas completely dependent on expensive shipments of diesel, which they use to power small-scale generators. It makes far more sense to bring the energy on land from the coast to the towns on a longitudinal basis \u2013 rather than trying to bring it in at one point and run it through a national grid to inaccessible places. Davies says that Chile is well-equipped with the skills needed to implement a marine energy strategy:\u201cChile is leading the way economically in South America. It\u2019s got a tradition of shipbuilding, of fishing, of aquaculture; it\u2019s got an extensive electro-engineering network and a huge tradition of mining. Those industries provide a skills base that is equal or better than others in terms of the deployment of technology.\u201dDavies adds that the country is attractive to investors: \u201cLots of people inside and outside Chile are interested in it as an investment location because of its strong economic performance.\u201d A report by Aquatera for the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office says that marine energy will be as cheap as most other forms of energy in Chile by 2020, and that it is already \u2013 even in these very early days \u2013 on a par with the price people are paying for diesel electricity in the remote areas.There are commercial markets that are already viable and prices always come down once a technology is implemented on a larger scale. Now it\u2019s just a matter of getting on with it.Read more stories like this:\u2022 From Cape Town to Kinshasa: could the Great Inga dam power half of Africa?\u2022 Why has \u2018microhydro\u2019 been neglected as a solution to energy poverty?\u2022 Can coffee stimulate renewable energy in Central America?\u2022 Advertisment feature: Barefoot inspiration: power to the people, from the peopleJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter. ", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Renewable energy: access and investment - global development professionals network", "Race and inequality", "Scotland", "Wave and tidal power", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Engineering", "Access to water", "Water"], "title": "Scottish sea power: driving down energy prices in Chile"},{"date": "2014-11-07T10:27:53Z", "country": "chile", "content": "To ensure our children get the most value from studying science, we must move beyond traditional teaching methods. And that\u2019s what Chile\u2019s El Programa de Educaci\u00f3n en Ciencias basado en la Indagaci\u00f3n (ECBI), (Inquiry-Based Science Education Programme) offers. ECBI is a joint initiative between the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Chile, Anglo American and communities in Chile\u2019s Catemu and Panquehue districts, inspired by the belief that high quality science education is important for all children.Our approach focuses on the fundamental question \u2013 why? It places scientific questioning at the heart of the learning process and in this way, children experience an education that respects their individuality, without compromising their freedom to develop and solve problems with classmates and adults. Being part of the ECBI team in Catemu and Panquehue has allowed me to witness the multitude of positive changes as a direct result of the programme, which has been hugely rewarding. For example, students have grown to such an extent that they are now able to examine the importance and effectiveness of what they are learning. They conduct investigations, make observations, and communicate their own ideas based on evidence.This process not only expands a child\u2019s understanding of the natural and material world, but also stimulates their curiosity and prepares them for lifelong learning. It contributes to the full expression of their creative potential, improving their quality of life and enriching the community.But it doesn\u2019t stop with the children. Our team acknowledges the need to connect a teacher\u2019s professional development to student learning. In doing so, we have discovered that:To encourage maximum adoption of the ECBI approach, we encourage those teachers who actively conduct inquiry lessons to share their experiences and work collaboratively with those who only conduct pre-inquiry lessons. Meanwhile, we offer the 12% of teachers who show resistance to the approach a supervisor who has been specially trained to facilitate the adoption of the methodology.The ECBI mission is an inspiration to local communities and has been successful in both Catemu and Panquehue districts, with parents describing the many positive changes that they have seen in their children. However, as with any initiative, it\u2019s not without its challenges. Therefore, to maintain momentum, we need to continue to communicate the benefits of ECBI, encouraging teachers and students alike to embrace this innovative approach to science education.Pilar Reyes is executive director for ECBICopy on this page is paid for and provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hubOther articles of interest from Anglo American:", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone"], "title": "The ECBI programme in Chile: taking a different approach to science education"},{"date": "2014-10-28T21:33:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The grandson of Augusto Pinochet is organising followers of the former dictator to launch a political party in Chile.\u201cRepublican Order My Country\u201d [Orden Republicano Mi Patria] is the name of the political movement. It condemns gay marriage yet supports legalised marijuana and reforms to the Pinochet-era constitution.Though the pro-Pinochet forces have been organised for at least six years as a movement known as \u201cFor My Country\u201d, after the arrest of a top Pinochet aide last week, Augusto Pinochet Molina, grandson of the dictator, stepped up formation of what supporters described as a centre-right political party.While the proposed party acknowledges that the military abused citizens, they never speak of a dictatorship but of a \u201cmilitary government\u201d followed by \u201ca witch hunt\u201d and a \u201cvendetta\u201d that jailed dozens of officers for the murder and disappearance of some 3,200 Chileans during the 17 years of Pinochet\u2019s rule.Pinochet Molina this week also sent out hundreds of invitations to the 99th birthday party of the dictator to be celebrated on 25 November. The location remains secret but among the invited guests is Cristian Labb\u00e9, a former Pinochet bodyguard charged last week with being part of a conspiracy to kidnap and murder 13 political prisoners.A former captain in the Chilean army, Pinochet Molina was kicked out of the military after an impromptu speech he made at his grandfather\u2019s 2006 funeral in Santiago, in which he applauded his grandfather\u2019s campaign to \u201cdefeat Marxism\u201d in Chile. A one time candidate for congress, Pinochet Molina is now positioning himself to run for office again.\u201cAugusto wanted to invite him because it is known that Labb\u00e9 is a grand admirer of his grandfather, so for that very reason it would be an honour,\u201d said Paolo Zarate, general secretary of For My Country in an interview.Pinochet Molina\u2019s decision to launch a political party is the latest salvo in a battle to lay claim to the now-deceased dictator\u2019s legacy. For nearly a quarter of a century, the rightwing UDI party has held a lock on what Chilean pollsters call \u201cthe military family\u201d, a conservative and influential bloc of voters. But moves to shut down a country club-style prison for imprisoned military officers and ongoing efforts to jail human rights violators has led to claims that even the pro-Pinochet UDI party has abandoned their former hero.When Labb\u00e9 was detained last week, a parade of rightwing politicians including senators went to honour their former colleague, though they sought to describe the visit as purely \u201chumane\u201d and not political.\u201cIt is a party destined to be minority and most of all fascist,\u201d said Chilean senator Alejandro Navarro in an interview with CNN.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Augusto Pinochet\u2019s grandson to launch new rightwing party in Chile"},{"date": "2014-10-29T07:00:05Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Historically, Chile has imported the majority of its energy at great cost to its poorest citizens. Chileans in remote communities which rely on diesel generators for their electricity supply pay more than twice the amount per kilowatt hour than people do in the UK. They pay as much as 35p/kwh while UK customers are currently paying an average of 14p/kwh.\u201cChile is the second least self-sufficient country in Latin America after Panama, and currently imports 75% of its energy resources,\u201d says Christoph Tagwerker, a consultant at Inter-American Development Bank. Access to drinking water is also a problem. Chileans in isolated communities are reliant on tankers for delivering water, which is costly. Settlements in the north of Chile (Norte Grande, Norte Chico) and in the far south (Aysen, Magallenes and Chile\u2019s off shore islands) could all benefit from desalination projects that turn sea water into drinking water \u2013 if they had a cheap source of electricity to power these projects.But with a little help from Scotland, Chile may be on course to make a dramatic reversal in its energy fortunes. Experts in Scotland think that renewable energy from the sea \u2013 wave and tidal energy \u2013 could provide cheap electricity to Chile\u2019s remote communities and be used to power desalination and water pumping.Gareth Davies is managing director of Aquatera, a Scottish renewable energy consultancy with many years of experience in marine energy. \u201cIn terms of wave-energy resource Chile is one of the richest, if not the richest countries in the world,\u201d he says. \u201cIt\u2019s coastline receives more wave energy than any other country in the world.\u201d The total available wave resource in Chile is estimated to be 240 gigawatts \u2013 10 times more electricity than it currently uses.Theoretically, Chile has enough resources to become an energy exporter. At some point in the future, when a cost-effective way of transporting energy long distance has been found.It\u2019s still early days, but the Chilean government has awarded the contract to launch a centre of excellence in marine energy and pilot schemes are expected to be launched soon. Aquatera has been working to develop marine energy in Chile for six years, and Davies wants Chile to benefit from Scotland\u2019s experience, leapfrogging some of the mistakes they made. \u201cScotland didn\u2019t focus on the need to develop grids, ports and the supply chain technology,\u201d he says. \u201cWe didn\u2019t realise how important [associated infrastructure] was. It\u2019s been left to the supply chain and local authorities to make those things happen.\u201dThe situation in Chile is slightly different as its energy markets are local rather than national. From a geographical perspective this is entirely logical; Chile is a long strip of a country, running down the west coast of South America, between the Pacific Ocean and the Andes. It ranges from hot desert in the north, to freezing lands in the south, and in between there are fjords, opens coasts and offshore islands. Each of those regions presents different opportunities for energy generation and different markets for energy supply. The electricity grid in Chile is patchy; it has a little bit of solar here, some conventional power plants there, and thousands of people in remote areas completely dependent on expensive shipments of diesel, which they use to power small-scale generators. It makes far more sense to bring the energy on land from the coast to the towns on a longitudinal basis \u2013 rather than trying to bring it in at one point and run it through a national grid to inaccessible places. Davies says that Chile is well-equipped with the skills needed to implement a marine energy strategy:\u201cChile is leading the way economically in South America. It\u2019s got a tradition of shipbuilding, of fishing, of aquaculture; it\u2019s got an extensive electro-engineering network and a huge tradition of mining. Those industries provide a skills base that is equal or better than others in terms of the deployment of technology.\u201dDavies adds that the country is attractive to investors: \u201cLots of people inside and outside Chile are interested in it as an investment location because of its strong economic performance.\u201d A report by Aquatera for the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office says that marine energy will be as cheap as most other forms of energy in Chile by 2020, and that it is already \u2013 even in these very early days \u2013 on a par with the price people are paying for diesel electricity in the remote areas.There are commercial markets that are already viable and prices always come down once a technology is implemented on a larger scale. Now it\u2019s just a matter of getting on with it.Read more stories like this:\u2022 From Cape Town to Kinshasa: could the Great Inga dam power half of Africa?\u2022 Why has \u2018microhydro\u2019 been neglected as a solution to energy poverty?\u2022 Can coffee stimulate renewable energy in Central America?\u2022 Advertisment feature: Barefoot inspiration: power to the people, from the peopleJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter. ", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Renewable energy: access and investment - global development professionals network", "Race and inequality", "Scotland", "Wave and tidal power", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Engineering", "Access to water", "Water"], "title": "Scottish sea power: driving down energy prices in Chile"},{"date": "2014-11-07T10:27:53Z", "country": "chile", "content": "To ensure our children get the most value from studying science, we must move beyond traditional teaching methods. And that\u2019s what Chile\u2019s El Programa de Educaci\u00f3n en Ciencias basado en la Indagaci\u00f3n (ECBI), (Inquiry-Based Science Education Programme) offers. ECBI is a joint initiative between the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Chile, Anglo American and communities in Chile\u2019s Catemu and Panquehue districts, inspired by the belief that high quality science education is important for all children.Our approach focuses on the fundamental question \u2013 why? It places scientific questioning at the heart of the learning process and in this way, children experience an education that respects their individuality, without compromising their freedom to develop and solve problems with classmates and adults. Being part of the ECBI team in Catemu and Panquehue has allowed me to witness the multitude of positive changes as a direct result of the programme, which has been hugely rewarding. For example, students have grown to such an extent that they are now able to examine the importance and effectiveness of what they are learning. They conduct investigations, make observations, and communicate their own ideas based on evidence.This process not only expands a child\u2019s understanding of the natural and material world, but also stimulates their curiosity and prepares them for lifelong learning. It contributes to the full expression of their creative potential, improving their quality of life and enriching the community.But it doesn\u2019t stop with the children. Our team acknowledges the need to connect a teacher\u2019s professional development to student learning. In doing so, we have discovered that:To encourage maximum adoption of the ECBI approach, we encourage those teachers who actively conduct inquiry lessons to share their experiences and work collaboratively with those who only conduct pre-inquiry lessons. Meanwhile, we offer the 12% of teachers who show resistance to the approach a supervisor who has been specially trained to facilitate the adoption of the methodology.The ECBI mission is an inspiration to local communities and has been successful in both Catemu and Panquehue districts, with parents describing the many positive changes that they have seen in their children. However, as with any initiative, it\u2019s not without its challenges. Therefore, to maintain momentum, we need to continue to communicate the benefits of ECBI, encouraging teachers and students alike to embrace this innovative approach to science education.Pilar Reyes is executive director for ECBICopy on this page is paid for and provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hubOther articles of interest from Anglo American:", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone"], "title": "The ECBI programme in Chile: taking a different approach to science education"},{"date": "2014-12-02T16:25:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I have been obsessed with chillies since my first trip to Mexico 20 years ago: I was hooked by their heat, and how alive it made me feel, but then I began to learn about all the nuances of flavour and different heat levels. The hardest thing is knowing when to use which chilli. This week, two simple but delicious recipes using two great chillies: the ancho, which is sweet, fruity and barely hot; and chipotle, all smoky and fiery. Both are widely available online and in supermarkets, but I\u2019ve listed a few substitutes in case you can\u2019t get your hands on them. Venison is one of the healthiest meats: high in protein and low in fat. Here, it lends itself beautifully to an English-inspired chile con carne, or picadillo as the authentic Mexican version is called. I use mince, as they do in Mexico, and the beauty is that you don\u2019t have to brown the meat, because there is already so much flavour in the caramelised fruit, spices and chilli. Quince is at the end of its season, so if you can\u2019t find it, use a pear or apple instead. Serves four.3 ancho chillies (or 2 tbsp sweet smoked paprika)50ml olive or rapeseed oil\u00bd quince (200g)1 plantain (160g), diced small100g prunes, chopped into 1cm dice1 large onion, peeled and chopped1 small cinnamon stick1 tsp allspice berries, ground1 small handful finely chopped rosemary1kg venison mince3 garlic cloves, peeled and finely chopped1 tin plum tomatoes250ml red wine100g blanched almonds, toasted and roughly choppedPull open the ancho chillies, shake out the seeds and tear into large pieces. Heat a large casserole on medium-high and toast the chilli pieces for five to 10 seconds a side, until they have slightly darkened, the skin has become more supple and they are releasing a wonderful smell. Quickly take them out of the hot pan (you don\u2019t want them to burn or they taste bitter), cover with boiling water and leave to soak.Add a tablespoon of oil to the same pan and add the quince, plantain and prunes. Cook for five minutes, until golden and caramelised all over, then transfer to a bowl with a slotted spoon. Add a tablespoon or two of oil to the pan, add the onion, spices and rosemary, seasoning generously, and cook for five minutes, until the onion is softening, then add the meat and garlic. Cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, then drain the ancho chillies and blitz with the tomatoes. Add this pureee, the wine and the reserved fruit to the pot, and simmer gently for 15 minutes. Check for seasoning, leave to cool and refrigerate \u2013 this dish is much better eaten a day after it\u2019s made, because that gives the flavours a chance to develop. It also freezes beautifully.To serve, reheat the picadillo gently over a medium heat. Meanwhile, toast the almonds in a dry frying pan over a medium heat for five to 10 minutes, shaking every so often, until pale golden all over, then roughly chop. Serve the stew over a brilliant-orange squash puree, some sprouts (see below) or steamed kale, and scatter the almonds on top.Sprouts aren\u2019t just for Christmas. They are an incredibly versatile vegetable, and my children love them fried in butter and honey. They are \u2013 a far cry from the over-boiled sprouts of yore. Here is a wonderfully smoky, grown-up version, great as a side dish or starter. Chipotles en adobo is a relish made from chipotles: if you can\u2019t get it, use a dried chipotle instead, deseeded, simmered in water for 20 minutes to soften and pureed; failing that, use smoked paprika.Serves four to six.500g brussels sprouts45g hazelnuts (or almonds; optional)60g butter1 tbsp chipotle en adobo (or 1 tsp hot smoked paprika)1 tbsp honeyJuice of 1 limeWash and tail the sprouts, cut away any discoloured/damaged outer leaves, and cut into halves. Put a large, heavy-bottomed frying pan on a medium heat and, when hot, toast the hazelnuts (if using) for five to 10 minutes, tossing every so often so they toast all over. Tip into a clean tea towel, wrap up and rub so the skins come off the nuts; roughly chop the nuts, and set aside.Turn the heat under the pan right up, add the butter and season with salt (be generous). Wait for the butter to start foaming, then cook until the solids turn a rich deep brown and it smells deliciously nutty. Throw in the sprouts, fry for a few minutes, then turn them over and cook for five minutes more, tossing every so often so they colour all over; they should be almost cooked by this stage.Add the honey and chipotle to the pan, toss to coat the sprouts and squeeze in the lime juice. Leave to heat through for a minute, then turn out into a bowl. Scatter with the nuts (if using), and serve.Stuff leftover picadillo into baked potatoes, sprinkle with cheese and return to the oven to heat through \u2013 delicious with a crisp chicory salad. Toast double the amount of anchos and puree the excess (without the tomatoes) to make a wonderful marinade for lamb or beef. Cut any extra quince into slices and roast with honey and lemon juice: it\u2019s fab on morning yoghurt or porridge. Make more sprouts and save some for a midweek tea: toss in a pan to reheat, and serve over rice or quinoa loosened with sesame oil, and top with feta. Chipotles work in mayo, meatballs or just about anything you want to give a smoky, fiery heat.\u2022 Thomasina Miers is co-owner of the Wahaca group of Mexican restaurants.Follow Thomasina on Twitter", "tags": ["Life and style", "Food & drink", "Main course", "Side dish", "Mexican food and drink"], "title": "The weekend cook: Thomasina Miers\u2019 chilli recipes \u2013 venison picadillo (aka chile con carne) and brussels sprouts with chipotle and honey"},{"date": "2014-10-28T21:33:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The grandson of Augusto Pinochet is organising followers of the former dictator to launch a political party in Chile.\u201cRepublican Order My Country\u201d [Orden Republicano Mi Patria] is the name of the political movement. It condemns gay marriage yet supports legalised marijuana and reforms to the Pinochet-era constitution.Though the pro-Pinochet forces have been organised for at least six years as a movement known as \u201cFor My Country\u201d, after the arrest of a top Pinochet aide last week, Augusto Pinochet Molina, grandson of the dictator, stepped up formation of what supporters described as a centre-right political party.While the proposed party acknowledges that the military abused citizens, they never speak of a dictatorship but of a \u201cmilitary government\u201d followed by \u201ca witch hunt\u201d and a \u201cvendetta\u201d that jailed dozens of officers for the murder and disappearance of some 3,200 Chileans during the 17 years of Pinochet\u2019s rule.Pinochet Molina this week also sent out hundreds of invitations to the 99th birthday party of the dictator to be celebrated on 25 November. The location remains secret but among the invited guests is Cristian Labb\u00e9, a former Pinochet bodyguard charged last week with being part of a conspiracy to kidnap and murder 13 political prisoners.A former captain in the Chilean army, Pinochet Molina was kicked out of the military after an impromptu speech he made at his grandfather\u2019s 2006 funeral in Santiago, in which he applauded his grandfather\u2019s campaign to \u201cdefeat Marxism\u201d in Chile. A one time candidate for congress, Pinochet Molina is now positioning himself to run for office again.\u201cAugusto wanted to invite him because it is known that Labb\u00e9 is a grand admirer of his grandfather, so for that very reason it would be an honour,\u201d said Paolo Zarate, general secretary of For My Country in an interview.Pinochet Molina\u2019s decision to launch a political party is the latest salvo in a battle to lay claim to the now-deceased dictator\u2019s legacy. For nearly a quarter of a century, the rightwing UDI party has held a lock on what Chilean pollsters call \u201cthe military family\u201d, a conservative and influential bloc of voters. But moves to shut down a country club-style prison for imprisoned military officers and ongoing efforts to jail human rights violators has led to claims that even the pro-Pinochet UDI party has abandoned their former hero.When Labb\u00e9 was detained last week, a parade of rightwing politicians including senators went to honour their former colleague, though they sought to describe the visit as purely \u201chumane\u201d and not political.\u201cIt is a party destined to be minority and most of all fascist,\u201d said Chilean senator Alejandro Navarro in an interview with CNN.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Augusto Pinochet\u2019s grandson to launch new rightwing party in Chile"},{"date": "2014-10-29T07:00:05Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Historically, Chile has imported the majority of its energy at great cost to its poorest citizens. Chileans in remote communities which rely on diesel generators for their electricity supply pay more than twice the amount per kilowatt hour than people do in the UK. They pay as much as 35p/kwh while UK customers are currently paying an average of 14p/kwh.\u201cChile is the second least self-sufficient country in Latin America after Panama, and currently imports 75% of its energy resources,\u201d says Christoph Tagwerker, a consultant at Inter-American Development Bank. Access to drinking water is also a problem. Chileans in isolated communities are reliant on tankers for delivering water, which is costly. Settlements in the north of Chile (Norte Grande, Norte Chico) and in the far south (Aysen, Magallenes and Chile\u2019s off shore islands) could all benefit from desalination projects that turn sea water into drinking water \u2013 if they had a cheap source of electricity to power these projects.But with a little help from Scotland, Chile may be on course to make a dramatic reversal in its energy fortunes. Experts in Scotland think that renewable energy from the sea \u2013 wave and tidal energy \u2013 could provide cheap electricity to Chile\u2019s remote communities and be used to power desalination and water pumping.Gareth Davies is managing director of Aquatera, a Scottish renewable energy consultancy with many years of experience in marine energy. \u201cIn terms of wave-energy resource Chile is one of the richest, if not the richest countries in the world,\u201d he says. \u201cIt\u2019s coastline receives more wave energy than any other country in the world.\u201d The total available wave resource in Chile is estimated to be 240 gigawatts \u2013 10 times more electricity than it currently uses.Theoretically, Chile has enough resources to become an energy exporter. At some point in the future, when a cost-effective way of transporting energy long distance has been found.It\u2019s still early days, but the Chilean government has awarded the contract to launch a centre of excellence in marine energy and pilot schemes are expected to be launched soon. Aquatera has been working to develop marine energy in Chile for six years, and Davies wants Chile to benefit from Scotland\u2019s experience, leapfrogging some of the mistakes they made. \u201cScotland didn\u2019t focus on the need to develop grids, ports and the supply chain technology,\u201d he says. \u201cWe didn\u2019t realise how important [associated infrastructure] was. It\u2019s been left to the supply chain and local authorities to make those things happen.\u201dThe situation in Chile is slightly different as its energy markets are local rather than national. From a geographical perspective this is entirely logical; Chile is a long strip of a country, running down the west coast of South America, between the Pacific Ocean and the Andes. It ranges from hot desert in the north, to freezing lands in the south, and in between there are fjords, opens coasts and offshore islands. Each of those regions presents different opportunities for energy generation and different markets for energy supply. The electricity grid in Chile is patchy; it has a little bit of solar here, some conventional power plants there, and thousands of people in remote areas completely dependent on expensive shipments of diesel, which they use to power small-scale generators. It makes far more sense to bring the energy on land from the coast to the towns on a longitudinal basis \u2013 rather than trying to bring it in at one point and run it through a national grid to inaccessible places. Davies says that Chile is well-equipped with the skills needed to implement a marine energy strategy:\u201cChile is leading the way economically in South America. It\u2019s got a tradition of shipbuilding, of fishing, of aquaculture; it\u2019s got an extensive electro-engineering network and a huge tradition of mining. Those industries provide a skills base that is equal or better than others in terms of the deployment of technology.\u201dDavies adds that the country is attractive to investors: \u201cLots of people inside and outside Chile are interested in it as an investment location because of its strong economic performance.\u201d A report by Aquatera for the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office says that marine energy will be as cheap as most other forms of energy in Chile by 2020, and that it is already \u2013 even in these very early days \u2013 on a par with the price people are paying for diesel electricity in the remote areas.There are commercial markets that are already viable and prices always come down once a technology is implemented on a larger scale. Now it\u2019s just a matter of getting on with it.Read more stories like this:\u2022 From Cape Town to Kinshasa: could the Great Inga dam power half of Africa?\u2022 Why has \u2018microhydro\u2019 been neglected as a solution to energy poverty?\u2022 Can coffee stimulate renewable energy in Central America?\u2022 Advertisment feature: Barefoot inspiration: power to the people, from the peopleJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter. ", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Renewable energy: access and investment - global development professionals network", "Race and inequality", "Scotland", "Wave and tidal power", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Engineering", "Access to water", "Water"], "title": "Scottish sea power: driving down energy prices in Chile"},{"date": "2014-11-07T10:27:53Z", "country": "chile", "content": "To ensure our children get the most value from studying science, we must move beyond traditional teaching methods. And that\u2019s what Chile\u2019s El Programa de Educaci\u00f3n en Ciencias basado en la Indagaci\u00f3n (ECBI), (Inquiry-Based Science Education Programme) offers. ECBI is a joint initiative between the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Chile, Anglo American and communities in Chile\u2019s Catemu and Panquehue districts, inspired by the belief that high quality science education is important for all children.Our approach focuses on the fundamental question \u2013 why? It places scientific questioning at the heart of the learning process and in this way, children experience an education that respects their individuality, without compromising their freedom to develop and solve problems with classmates and adults. Being part of the ECBI team in Catemu and Panquehue has allowed me to witness the multitude of positive changes as a direct result of the programme, which has been hugely rewarding. For example, students have grown to such an extent that they are now able to examine the importance and effectiveness of what they are learning. They conduct investigations, make observations, and communicate their own ideas based on evidence.This process not only expands a child\u2019s understanding of the natural and material world, but also stimulates their curiosity and prepares them for lifelong learning. It contributes to the full expression of their creative potential, improving their quality of life and enriching the community.But it doesn\u2019t stop with the children. Our team acknowledges the need to connect a teacher\u2019s professional development to student learning. In doing so, we have discovered that:To encourage maximum adoption of the ECBI approach, we encourage those teachers who actively conduct inquiry lessons to share their experiences and work collaboratively with those who only conduct pre-inquiry lessons. Meanwhile, we offer the 12% of teachers who show resistance to the approach a supervisor who has been specially trained to facilitate the adoption of the methodology.The ECBI mission is an inspiration to local communities and has been successful in both Catemu and Panquehue districts, with parents describing the many positive changes that they have seen in their children. However, as with any initiative, it\u2019s not without its challenges. Therefore, to maintain momentum, we need to continue to communicate the benefits of ECBI, encouraging teachers and students alike to embrace this innovative approach to science education.Pilar Reyes is executive director for ECBICopy on this page is paid for and provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hubOther articles of interest from Anglo American:", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone"], "title": "The ECBI programme in Chile: taking a different approach to science education"},{"date": "2014-12-02T16:25:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I have been obsessed with chillies since my first trip to Mexico 20 years ago: I was hooked by their heat, and how alive it made me feel, but then I began to learn about all the nuances of flavour and different heat levels. The hardest thing is knowing when to use which chilli. This week, two simple but delicious recipes using two great chillies: the ancho, which is sweet, fruity and barely hot; and chipotle, all smoky and fiery. Both are widely available online and in supermarkets, but I\u2019ve listed a few substitutes in case you can\u2019t get your hands on them. Venison is one of the healthiest meats: high in protein and low in fat. Here, it lends itself beautifully to an English-inspired chile con carne, or picadillo as the authentic Mexican version is called. I use mince, as they do in Mexico, and the beauty is that you don\u2019t have to brown the meat, because there is already so much flavour in the caramelised fruit, spices and chilli. Quince is at the end of its season, so if you can\u2019t find it, use a pear or apple instead. Serves four.3 ancho chillies (or 2 tbsp sweet smoked paprika)50ml olive or rapeseed oil\u00bd quince (200g)1 plantain (160g), diced small100g prunes, chopped into 1cm dice1 large onion, peeled and chopped1 small cinnamon stick1 tsp allspice berries, ground1 small handful finely chopped rosemary1kg venison mince3 garlic cloves, peeled and finely chopped1 tin plum tomatoes250ml red wine100g blanched almonds, toasted and roughly choppedPull open the ancho chillies, shake out the seeds and tear into large pieces. Heat a large casserole on medium-high and toast the chilli pieces for five to 10 seconds a side, until they have slightly darkened, the skin has become more supple and they are releasing a wonderful smell. Quickly take them out of the hot pan (you don\u2019t want them to burn or they taste bitter), cover with boiling water and leave to soak.Add a tablespoon of oil to the same pan and add the quince, plantain and prunes. Cook for five minutes, until golden and caramelised all over, then transfer to a bowl with a slotted spoon. Add a tablespoon or two of oil to the pan, add the onion, spices and rosemary, seasoning generously, and cook for five minutes, until the onion is softening, then add the meat and garlic. Cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, then drain the ancho chillies and blitz with the tomatoes. Add this pureee, the wine and the reserved fruit to the pot, and simmer gently for 15 minutes. Check for seasoning, leave to cool and refrigerate \u2013 this dish is much better eaten a day after it\u2019s made, because that gives the flavours a chance to develop. It also freezes beautifully.To serve, reheat the picadillo gently over a medium heat. Meanwhile, toast the almonds in a dry frying pan over a medium heat for five to 10 minutes, shaking every so often, until pale golden all over, then roughly chop. Serve the stew over a brilliant-orange squash puree, some sprouts (see below) or steamed kale, and scatter the almonds on top.Sprouts aren\u2019t just for Christmas. They are an incredibly versatile vegetable, and my children love them fried in butter and honey. They are \u2013 a far cry from the over-boiled sprouts of yore. Here is a wonderfully smoky, grown-up version, great as a side dish or starter. Chipotles en adobo is a relish made from chipotles: if you can\u2019t get it, use a dried chipotle instead, deseeded, simmered in water for 20 minutes to soften and pureed; failing that, use smoked paprika.Serves four to six.500g brussels sprouts45g hazelnuts (or almonds; optional)60g butter1 tbsp chipotle en adobo (or 1 tsp hot smoked paprika)1 tbsp honeyJuice of 1 limeWash and tail the sprouts, cut away any discoloured/damaged outer leaves, and cut into halves. Put a large, heavy-bottomed frying pan on a medium heat and, when hot, toast the hazelnuts (if using) for five to 10 minutes, tossing every so often so they toast all over. Tip into a clean tea towel, wrap up and rub so the skins come off the nuts; roughly chop the nuts, and set aside.Turn the heat under the pan right up, add the butter and season with salt (be generous). Wait for the butter to start foaming, then cook until the solids turn a rich deep brown and it smells deliciously nutty. Throw in the sprouts, fry for a few minutes, then turn them over and cook for five minutes more, tossing every so often so they colour all over; they should be almost cooked by this stage.Add the honey and chipotle to the pan, toss to coat the sprouts and squeeze in the lime juice. Leave to heat through for a minute, then turn out into a bowl. Scatter with the nuts (if using), and serve.Stuff leftover picadillo into baked potatoes, sprinkle with cheese and return to the oven to heat through \u2013 delicious with a crisp chicory salad. Toast double the amount of anchos and puree the excess (without the tomatoes) to make a wonderful marinade for lamb or beef. Cut any extra quince into slices and roast with honey and lemon juice: it\u2019s fab on morning yoghurt or porridge. Make more sprouts and save some for a midweek tea: toss in a pan to reheat, and serve over rice or quinoa loosened with sesame oil, and top with feta. Chipotles work in mayo, meatballs or just about anything you want to give a smoky, fiery heat.\u2022 Thomasina Miers is co-owner of the Wahaca group of Mexican restaurants.Follow Thomasina on Twitter", "tags": ["Life and style", "Food & drink", "Main course", "Side dish", "Mexican food and drink"], "title": "The weekend cook: Thomasina Miers\u2019 chilli recipes \u2013 venison picadillo (aka chile con carne) and brussels sprouts with chipotle and honey"},{"date": "2014-11-18T12:15:14Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The world\u2019s linguistic map is a colourful patchwork. From the tip of the Arctic to the remote villages of sub-saharan Africa, 6,000 languages are spoken across the globe. But according to Unesco, if nothing is done to protect them, half of these languages will have disappeared by the end of this century.In the Andean region of South America, the struggles of one language in particular may hold potential lessons for other endangered languages. The Amerindian language of Quechua has a reach that stretches across southern Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Chile and Argentina. It dates back 2,000 years, dominated the communication of the Incas, and today is used by more people \u2013 about 8 million \u2013 than any other indigenous language in all of the Americas, according to Professor Rosaleen Howard, chair of Hispanic Studies in the School of Modern Languages at Newcastle University.But like so many other languages, Quechua is under threat. In certain areas it has disappeared completely, according to Howard, who specialises in the language. One such area is the mountainous province of Huarochiri in the department of Lima, Peru. \u201cBack in the colonial period there was a priest who documented all the different myths and oral traditions ... But today if you go to that region, the language is no longer spoken\u201d, said Howard, adding that they now speak Spanish.Quechua\u2019s history is long, its trajectory diverse. According to the estimates of historical linguists, it dates back to a small area in the central Andes, in what is now Peru. Over the course of some 1,000 years, it was common for Quechua speakers to be in close contact with speakers of Aymara, another indigenous language in the region, and this has very much influenced its trajectory. \u201cThere\u2019s been a kind of bifurcation in Quechua\u201d, Howard explained, adding: \u201cOne could say that the diversity of Quechua weakens its chances of survival to some extent.\u201d An example of this is that the Peruvian government has mainly focused its preservation efforts on the southern varieties of the language and less on those that are concentrated in central Peru.Quechua\u2019s demise is now in a vicious cycle. Howard pointed out that many rural Andeans will have faced strong discrimination in educational opportunities and employment because of speaking Quechua rather than Spanish. \u201cWhen people move from rural areas to the cities they need Spanish in order to get jobs and education; there is no alternative.\u201dIt\u2019s a reality that has been passed down over generations. Many rural Andeans, thinking it best for their children, tell them they won\u2019t get anywhere in life without Spanish and more and more frequently refuse to speak Quechua with them. The paradox here is that among more educated people, there\u2019s currently a strong push for language revitalisation. But away from the urban elites, ordinary people aren\u2019t aware of this, said Howard.\u201cThe people who push for language revitalisation tend to be the more educated people who are bilingual. They have acquired Spanish through migration to the cities and getting into higher education.\u201dShe added that rural people are often not even aware that their languages are under threat, as they continue to speak them in their everyday lives. \u201cIt is only when there are incursions onto their land by colonisers, or when they and their children want to migrate to the cities that the need for Spanish occurs.\u201dVarious efforts are being made to preserve Quechua. Multilingual education (MLE), which allows children to learn in their mother tongue throughout early years of schooling, while gradually introducing the official language as a second language, has been in place for all indigenous people in Bolivia since an education reform in 1994.But while the aim was to encourage cultural understanding and promote a more respectful society, Howard is critical of how MLE was rolled out in Bolivia. \u201cOne of the reasons those programmes don\u2019t work fully is that the indigenous people feel yet again is that it\u2019s a way of keeping them separate from society.\u201dHoward highlighted a government initiative in Bolivia that she believes does work. When the constitution was revised in 2009 it decreed that all 37 languages of the country were official. It became a requirement that all state employees had to know at least one indigenous language. For employability, she said, this is a step in the right direction. \u201cNowadays, there really are lots of openings for people who speak not just Spanish but also one of the indigenous languages\u201d, she said.More recently in Bolivia, it has become a legal requirement for civil servants to speak an indigenous language in addition to Spanish if they want to keep their jobs: \u201cThere are government sponsored training courses which are making an impact without a doubt. Also, teaching of these languages in higher education is on the rise and their use in TV and media is increasing.\u201dSo why is it so important to protect and preserve languages like Quechua? For Howard, the protection of indigenous languages is a matter of human rights: \u201cIt comes home to how unjust it is that people should live in a society where they have been forced to abandon those languages or suppress them in favour of speaking this dominant tongue\u201d.Read more stories like this:\u2022 Three European languages that you didn\u2019t know existed\u2022 \u2018In the Patagonian desert I met a petrol attendant who spoke perfect Welsh\u2019\u2022 Most language students unable to do more than understand basic phrases", "tags": ["Languages", "Education", "Indigenous peoples", "Bolivia", "South America holidays"], "title": "What can we learn from efforts to save an ancient South American language?"},{"date": "2014-10-28T21:33:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The grandson of Augusto Pinochet is organising followers of the former dictator to launch a political party in Chile.\u201cRepublican Order My Country\u201d [Orden Republicano Mi Patria] is the name of the political movement. It condemns gay marriage yet supports legalised marijuana and reforms to the Pinochet-era constitution.Though the pro-Pinochet forces have been organised for at least six years as a movement known as \u201cFor My Country\u201d, after the arrest of a top Pinochet aide last week, Augusto Pinochet Molina, grandson of the dictator, stepped up formation of what supporters described as a centre-right political party.While the proposed party acknowledges that the military abused citizens, they never speak of a dictatorship but of a \u201cmilitary government\u201d followed by \u201ca witch hunt\u201d and a \u201cvendetta\u201d that jailed dozens of officers for the murder and disappearance of some 3,200 Chileans during the 17 years of Pinochet\u2019s rule.Pinochet Molina this week also sent out hundreds of invitations to the 99th birthday party of the dictator to be celebrated on 25 November. The location remains secret but among the invited guests is Cristian Labb\u00e9, a former Pinochet bodyguard charged last week with being part of a conspiracy to kidnap and murder 13 political prisoners.A former captain in the Chilean army, Pinochet Molina was kicked out of the military after an impromptu speech he made at his grandfather\u2019s 2006 funeral in Santiago, in which he applauded his grandfather\u2019s campaign to \u201cdefeat Marxism\u201d in Chile. A one time candidate for congress, Pinochet Molina is now positioning himself to run for office again.\u201cAugusto wanted to invite him because it is known that Labb\u00e9 is a grand admirer of his grandfather, so for that very reason it would be an honour,\u201d said Paolo Zarate, general secretary of For My Country in an interview.Pinochet Molina\u2019s decision to launch a political party is the latest salvo in a battle to lay claim to the now-deceased dictator\u2019s legacy. For nearly a quarter of a century, the rightwing UDI party has held a lock on what Chilean pollsters call \u201cthe military family\u201d, a conservative and influential bloc of voters. But moves to shut down a country club-style prison for imprisoned military officers and ongoing efforts to jail human rights violators has led to claims that even the pro-Pinochet UDI party has abandoned their former hero.When Labb\u00e9 was detained last week, a parade of rightwing politicians including senators went to honour their former colleague, though they sought to describe the visit as purely \u201chumane\u201d and not political.\u201cIt is a party destined to be minority and most of all fascist,\u201d said Chilean senator Alejandro Navarro in an interview with CNN.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Augusto Pinochet\u2019s grandson to launch new rightwing party in Chile"},{"date": "2014-10-29T07:00:05Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Historically, Chile has imported the majority of its energy at great cost to its poorest citizens. Chileans in remote communities which rely on diesel generators for their electricity supply pay more than twice the amount per kilowatt hour than people do in the UK. They pay as much as 35p/kwh while UK customers are currently paying an average of 14p/kwh.\u201cChile is the second least self-sufficient country in Latin America after Panama, and currently imports 75% of its energy resources,\u201d says Christoph Tagwerker, a consultant at Inter-American Development Bank. Access to drinking water is also a problem. Chileans in isolated communities are reliant on tankers for delivering water, which is costly. Settlements in the north of Chile (Norte Grande, Norte Chico) and in the far south (Aysen, Magallenes and Chile\u2019s off shore islands) could all benefit from desalination projects that turn sea water into drinking water \u2013 if they had a cheap source of electricity to power these projects.But with a little help from Scotland, Chile may be on course to make a dramatic reversal in its energy fortunes. Experts in Scotland think that renewable energy from the sea \u2013 wave and tidal energy \u2013 could provide cheap electricity to Chile\u2019s remote communities and be used to power desalination and water pumping.Gareth Davies is managing director of Aquatera, a Scottish renewable energy consultancy with many years of experience in marine energy. \u201cIn terms of wave-energy resource Chile is one of the richest, if not the richest countries in the world,\u201d he says. \u201cIt\u2019s coastline receives more wave energy than any other country in the world.\u201d The total available wave resource in Chile is estimated to be 240 gigawatts \u2013 10 times more electricity than it currently uses.Theoretically, Chile has enough resources to become an energy exporter. At some point in the future, when a cost-effective way of transporting energy long distance has been found.It\u2019s still early days, but the Chilean government has awarded the contract to launch a centre of excellence in marine energy and pilot schemes are expected to be launched soon. Aquatera has been working to develop marine energy in Chile for six years, and Davies wants Chile to benefit from Scotland\u2019s experience, leapfrogging some of the mistakes they made. \u201cScotland didn\u2019t focus on the need to develop grids, ports and the supply chain technology,\u201d he says. \u201cWe didn\u2019t realise how important [associated infrastructure] was. It\u2019s been left to the supply chain and local authorities to make those things happen.\u201dThe situation in Chile is slightly different as its energy markets are local rather than national. From a geographical perspective this is entirely logical; Chile is a long strip of a country, running down the west coast of South America, between the Pacific Ocean and the Andes. It ranges from hot desert in the north, to freezing lands in the south, and in between there are fjords, opens coasts and offshore islands. Each of those regions presents different opportunities for energy generation and different markets for energy supply. The electricity grid in Chile is patchy; it has a little bit of solar here, some conventional power plants there, and thousands of people in remote areas completely dependent on expensive shipments of diesel, which they use to power small-scale generators. It makes far more sense to bring the energy on land from the coast to the towns on a longitudinal basis \u2013 rather than trying to bring it in at one point and run it through a national grid to inaccessible places. Davies says that Chile is well-equipped with the skills needed to implement a marine energy strategy:\u201cChile is leading the way economically in South America. It\u2019s got a tradition of shipbuilding, of fishing, of aquaculture; it\u2019s got an extensive electro-engineering network and a huge tradition of mining. Those industries provide a skills base that is equal or better than others in terms of the deployment of technology.\u201dDavies adds that the country is attractive to investors: \u201cLots of people inside and outside Chile are interested in it as an investment location because of its strong economic performance.\u201d A report by Aquatera for the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office says that marine energy will be as cheap as most other forms of energy in Chile by 2020, and that it is already \u2013 even in these very early days \u2013 on a par with the price people are paying for diesel electricity in the remote areas.There are commercial markets that are already viable and prices always come down once a technology is implemented on a larger scale. Now it\u2019s just a matter of getting on with it.Read more stories like this:\u2022 From Cape Town to Kinshasa: could the Great Inga dam power half of Africa?\u2022 Why has \u2018microhydro\u2019 been neglected as a solution to energy poverty?\u2022 Can coffee stimulate renewable energy in Central America?\u2022 Advertisment feature: Barefoot inspiration: power to the people, from the peopleJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter. ", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Renewable energy: access and investment - global development professionals network", "Race and inequality", "Scotland", "Wave and tidal power", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Engineering", "Access to water", "Water"], "title": "Scottish sea power: driving down energy prices in Chile"},{"date": "2014-11-07T10:27:53Z", "country": "chile", "content": "To ensure our children get the most value from studying science, we must move beyond traditional teaching methods. And that\u2019s what Chile\u2019s El Programa de Educaci\u00f3n en Ciencias basado en la Indagaci\u00f3n (ECBI), (Inquiry-Based Science Education Programme) offers. ECBI is a joint initiative between the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Chile, Anglo American and communities in Chile\u2019s Catemu and Panquehue districts, inspired by the belief that high quality science education is important for all children.Our approach focuses on the fundamental question \u2013 why? It places scientific questioning at the heart of the learning process and in this way, children experience an education that respects their individuality, without compromising their freedom to develop and solve problems with classmates and adults. Being part of the ECBI team in Catemu and Panquehue has allowed me to witness the multitude of positive changes as a direct result of the programme, which has been hugely rewarding. For example, students have grown to such an extent that they are now able to examine the importance and effectiveness of what they are learning. They conduct investigations, make observations, and communicate their own ideas based on evidence.This process not only expands a child\u2019s understanding of the natural and material world, but also stimulates their curiosity and prepares them for lifelong learning. It contributes to the full expression of their creative potential, improving their quality of life and enriching the community.But it doesn\u2019t stop with the children. Our team acknowledges the need to connect a teacher\u2019s professional development to student learning. In doing so, we have discovered that:To encourage maximum adoption of the ECBI approach, we encourage those teachers who actively conduct inquiry lessons to share their experiences and work collaboratively with those who only conduct pre-inquiry lessons. Meanwhile, we offer the 12% of teachers who show resistance to the approach a supervisor who has been specially trained to facilitate the adoption of the methodology.The ECBI mission is an inspiration to local communities and has been successful in both Catemu and Panquehue districts, with parents describing the many positive changes that they have seen in their children. However, as with any initiative, it\u2019s not without its challenges. Therefore, to maintain momentum, we need to continue to communicate the benefits of ECBI, encouraging teachers and students alike to embrace this innovative approach to science education.Pilar Reyes is executive director for ECBICopy on this page is paid for and provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hubOther articles of interest from Anglo American:", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone"], "title": "The ECBI programme in Chile: taking a different approach to science education"},{"date": "2014-12-02T16:25:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I have been obsessed with chillies since my first trip to Mexico 20 years ago: I was hooked by their heat, and how alive it made me feel, but then I began to learn about all the nuances of flavour and different heat levels. The hardest thing is knowing when to use which chilli. This week, two simple but delicious recipes using two great chillies: the ancho, which is sweet, fruity and barely hot; and chipotle, all smoky and fiery. Both are widely available online and in supermarkets, but I\u2019ve listed a few substitutes in case you can\u2019t get your hands on them. Venison is one of the healthiest meats: high in protein and low in fat. Here, it lends itself beautifully to an English-inspired chile con carne, or picadillo as the authentic Mexican version is called. I use mince, as they do in Mexico, and the beauty is that you don\u2019t have to brown the meat, because there is already so much flavour in the caramelised fruit, spices and chilli. Quince is at the end of its season, so if you can\u2019t find it, use a pear or apple instead. Serves four.3 ancho chillies (or 2 tbsp sweet smoked paprika)50ml olive or rapeseed oil\u00bd quince (200g)1 plantain (160g), diced small100g prunes, chopped into 1cm dice1 large onion, peeled and chopped1 small cinnamon stick1 tsp allspice berries, ground1 small handful finely chopped rosemary1kg venison mince3 garlic cloves, peeled and finely chopped1 tin plum tomatoes250ml red wine100g blanched almonds, toasted and roughly choppedPull open the ancho chillies, shake out the seeds and tear into large pieces. Heat a large casserole on medium-high and toast the chilli pieces for five to 10 seconds a side, until they have slightly darkened, the skin has become more supple and they are releasing a wonderful smell. Quickly take them out of the hot pan (you don\u2019t want them to burn or they taste bitter), cover with boiling water and leave to soak.Add a tablespoon of oil to the same pan and add the quince, plantain and prunes. Cook for five minutes, until golden and caramelised all over, then transfer to a bowl with a slotted spoon. Add a tablespoon or two of oil to the pan, add the onion, spices and rosemary, seasoning generously, and cook for five minutes, until the onion is softening, then add the meat and garlic. Cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, then drain the ancho chillies and blitz with the tomatoes. Add this pureee, the wine and the reserved fruit to the pot, and simmer gently for 15 minutes. Check for seasoning, leave to cool and refrigerate \u2013 this dish is much better eaten a day after it\u2019s made, because that gives the flavours a chance to develop. It also freezes beautifully.To serve, reheat the picadillo gently over a medium heat. Meanwhile, toast the almonds in a dry frying pan over a medium heat for five to 10 minutes, shaking every so often, until pale golden all over, then roughly chop. Serve the stew over a brilliant-orange squash puree, some sprouts (see below) or steamed kale, and scatter the almonds on top.Sprouts aren\u2019t just for Christmas. They are an incredibly versatile vegetable, and my children love them fried in butter and honey. They are \u2013 a far cry from the over-boiled sprouts of yore. Here is a wonderfully smoky, grown-up version, great as a side dish or starter. Chipotles en adobo is a relish made from chipotles: if you can\u2019t get it, use a dried chipotle instead, deseeded, simmered in water for 20 minutes to soften and pureed; failing that, use smoked paprika.Serves four to six.500g brussels sprouts45g hazelnuts (or almonds; optional)60g butter1 tbsp chipotle en adobo (or 1 tsp hot smoked paprika)1 tbsp honeyJuice of 1 limeWash and tail the sprouts, cut away any discoloured/damaged outer leaves, and cut into halves. Put a large, heavy-bottomed frying pan on a medium heat and, when hot, toast the hazelnuts (if using) for five to 10 minutes, tossing every so often so they toast all over. Tip into a clean tea towel, wrap up and rub so the skins come off the nuts; roughly chop the nuts, and set aside.Turn the heat under the pan right up, add the butter and season with salt (be generous). Wait for the butter to start foaming, then cook until the solids turn a rich deep brown and it smells deliciously nutty. Throw in the sprouts, fry for a few minutes, then turn them over and cook for five minutes more, tossing every so often so they colour all over; they should be almost cooked by this stage.Add the honey and chipotle to the pan, toss to coat the sprouts and squeeze in the lime juice. Leave to heat through for a minute, then turn out into a bowl. Scatter with the nuts (if using), and serve.Stuff leftover picadillo into baked potatoes, sprinkle with cheese and return to the oven to heat through \u2013 delicious with a crisp chicory salad. Toast double the amount of anchos and puree the excess (without the tomatoes) to make a wonderful marinade for lamb or beef. Cut any extra quince into slices and roast with honey and lemon juice: it\u2019s fab on morning yoghurt or porridge. Make more sprouts and save some for a midweek tea: toss in a pan to reheat, and serve over rice or quinoa loosened with sesame oil, and top with feta. Chipotles work in mayo, meatballs or just about anything you want to give a smoky, fiery heat.\u2022 Thomasina Miers is co-owner of the Wahaca group of Mexican restaurants.Follow Thomasina on Twitter", "tags": ["Life and style", "Food & drink", "Main course", "Side dish", "Mexican food and drink"], "title": "The weekend cook: Thomasina Miers\u2019 chilli recipes \u2013 venison picadillo (aka chile con carne) and brussels sprouts with chipotle and honey"},{"date": "2014-11-18T12:15:14Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The world\u2019s linguistic map is a colourful patchwork. From the tip of the Arctic to the remote villages of sub-saharan Africa, 6,000 languages are spoken across the globe. But according to Unesco, if nothing is done to protect them, half of these languages will have disappeared by the end of this century.In the Andean region of South America, the struggles of one language in particular may hold potential lessons for other endangered languages. The Amerindian language of Quechua has a reach that stretches across southern Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Chile and Argentina. It dates back 2,000 years, dominated the communication of the Incas, and today is used by more people \u2013 about 8 million \u2013 than any other indigenous language in all of the Americas, according to Professor Rosaleen Howard, chair of Hispanic Studies in the School of Modern Languages at Newcastle University.But like so many other languages, Quechua is under threat. In certain areas it has disappeared completely, according to Howard, who specialises in the language. One such area is the mountainous province of Huarochiri in the department of Lima, Peru. \u201cBack in the colonial period there was a priest who documented all the different myths and oral traditions ... But today if you go to that region, the language is no longer spoken\u201d, said Howard, adding that they now speak Spanish.Quechua\u2019s history is long, its trajectory diverse. According to the estimates of historical linguists, it dates back to a small area in the central Andes, in what is now Peru. Over the course of some 1,000 years, it was common for Quechua speakers to be in close contact with speakers of Aymara, another indigenous language in the region, and this has very much influenced its trajectory. \u201cThere\u2019s been a kind of bifurcation in Quechua\u201d, Howard explained, adding: \u201cOne could say that the diversity of Quechua weakens its chances of survival to some extent.\u201d An example of this is that the Peruvian government has mainly focused its preservation efforts on the southern varieties of the language and less on those that are concentrated in central Peru.Quechua\u2019s demise is now in a vicious cycle. Howard pointed out that many rural Andeans will have faced strong discrimination in educational opportunities and employment because of speaking Quechua rather than Spanish. \u201cWhen people move from rural areas to the cities they need Spanish in order to get jobs and education; there is no alternative.\u201dIt\u2019s a reality that has been passed down over generations. Many rural Andeans, thinking it best for their children, tell them they won\u2019t get anywhere in life without Spanish and more and more frequently refuse to speak Quechua with them. The paradox here is that among more educated people, there\u2019s currently a strong push for language revitalisation. But away from the urban elites, ordinary people aren\u2019t aware of this, said Howard.\u201cThe people who push for language revitalisation tend to be the more educated people who are bilingual. They have acquired Spanish through migration to the cities and getting into higher education.\u201dShe added that rural people are often not even aware that their languages are under threat, as they continue to speak them in their everyday lives. \u201cIt is only when there are incursions onto their land by colonisers, or when they and their children want to migrate to the cities that the need for Spanish occurs.\u201dVarious efforts are being made to preserve Quechua. Multilingual education (MLE), which allows children to learn in their mother tongue throughout early years of schooling, while gradually introducing the official language as a second language, has been in place for all indigenous people in Bolivia since an education reform in 1994.But while the aim was to encourage cultural understanding and promote a more respectful society, Howard is critical of how MLE was rolled out in Bolivia. \u201cOne of the reasons those programmes don\u2019t work fully is that the indigenous people feel yet again is that it\u2019s a way of keeping them separate from society.\u201dHoward highlighted a government initiative in Bolivia that she believes does work. When the constitution was revised in 2009 it decreed that all 37 languages of the country were official. It became a requirement that all state employees had to know at least one indigenous language. For employability, she said, this is a step in the right direction. \u201cNowadays, there really are lots of openings for people who speak not just Spanish but also one of the indigenous languages\u201d, she said.More recently in Bolivia, it has become a legal requirement for civil servants to speak an indigenous language in addition to Spanish if they want to keep their jobs: \u201cThere are government sponsored training courses which are making an impact without a doubt. Also, teaching of these languages in higher education is on the rise and their use in TV and media is increasing.\u201dSo why is it so important to protect and preserve languages like Quechua? For Howard, the protection of indigenous languages is a matter of human rights: \u201cIt comes home to how unjust it is that people should live in a society where they have been forced to abandon those languages or suppress them in favour of speaking this dominant tongue\u201d.Read more stories like this:\u2022 Three European languages that you didn\u2019t know existed\u2022 \u2018In the Patagonian desert I met a petrol attendant who spoke perfect Welsh\u2019\u2022 Most language students unable to do more than understand basic phrases", "tags": ["Languages", "Education", "Indigenous peoples", "Bolivia", "South America holidays"], "title": "What can we learn from efforts to save an ancient South American language?"},{"date": "2014-10-09T18:32:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We express our condolences and solidarity to Venezuela following the murder of Robert Serra (27), the national assembly\u2019s youngest parliamentarian, who was found dead in his home on October 1 (theguardian.com, 8 October).Government officials have stated it was tied to a terrorist plot from extreme elements of the rightwing opposition, with the secretary general of the Union of South American Nations, former Colombian president Ernesto Samper, saying: \u201cThe assassination of the young legislator Robert Serra in Venezuela is a worrying sign of the infiltration of Colombian paramilitarism.\u201dWorryingly, Serra\u2019s murder joins the list of other assassinations of government figures and the situation resembles the prelude to the overthrow of Salvador Allende in Chile, when sections of the Chilean opposition did not distance themselves from violent actions, including the assassination of a general.We condemn this murder and other examples of extreme, anti-democratic violence aimed at destabilising Venezuela\u2019s elected government.Ken Livingstone President, Venezuela Solidarity Campaign, Colin Burgon Labour Friends of Venezuela, Tariq Ali, Diane Abbott MP, Baroness Janet Royall Leader of the opposition in the House of Lords, Tony Burke Assistant general secretary, Unite the Union, Mike Wood MP, Elaine Smith MSP, Lord Nic Rea, George Galloway MP, Neil Findlay MSP, Katy Clark MP, Jeremy Corbyn MP, Mike Hedges, Welsh AM, Jenny Rathbone Welsh AM, John McDonnell MP, Michael Connarty MP, Kate Hudson General Secretary, CND, Lindsey German Convenor, Stop the War Coalition, Salma Yaqoob, Andy De La Tour, Victoria Brittain, Billy Hayes, General secretary, CWU, Mick Whelan General secretary, Aslef, Doug Nicholls General secretary, General Federation of Trade Unions, Ronnie Draper General Secretary, BFAWU, Roger McKenzie Assistant general secretary, Unison, Professor Peter Hallward Kingston University, Dr Francisco Dominguez, Head, Centre for Latin American Studies, Middlesex University", "tags": ["Venezuela", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Venezuela: the disturbing message of Robert Serra\u2019s murder | @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-10-28T21:33:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The grandson of Augusto Pinochet is organising followers of the former dictator to launch a political party in Chile.\u201cRepublican Order My Country\u201d [Orden Republicano Mi Patria] is the name of the political movement. It condemns gay marriage yet supports legalised marijuana and reforms to the Pinochet-era constitution.Though the pro-Pinochet forces have been organised for at least six years as a movement known as \u201cFor My Country\u201d, after the arrest of a top Pinochet aide last week, Augusto Pinochet Molina, grandson of the dictator, stepped up formation of what supporters described as a centre-right political party.While the proposed party acknowledges that the military abused citizens, they never speak of a dictatorship but of a \u201cmilitary government\u201d followed by \u201ca witch hunt\u201d and a \u201cvendetta\u201d that jailed dozens of officers for the murder and disappearance of some 3,200 Chileans during the 17 years of Pinochet\u2019s rule.Pinochet Molina this week also sent out hundreds of invitations to the 99th birthday party of the dictator to be celebrated on 25 November. The location remains secret but among the invited guests is Cristian Labb\u00e9, a former Pinochet bodyguard charged last week with being part of a conspiracy to kidnap and murder 13 political prisoners.A former captain in the Chilean army, Pinochet Molina was kicked out of the military after an impromptu speech he made at his grandfather\u2019s 2006 funeral in Santiago, in which he applauded his grandfather\u2019s campaign to \u201cdefeat Marxism\u201d in Chile. A one time candidate for congress, Pinochet Molina is now positioning himself to run for office again.\u201cAugusto wanted to invite him because it is known that Labb\u00e9 is a grand admirer of his grandfather, so for that very reason it would be an honour,\u201d said Paolo Zarate, general secretary of For My Country in an interview.Pinochet Molina\u2019s decision to launch a political party is the latest salvo in a battle to lay claim to the now-deceased dictator\u2019s legacy. For nearly a quarter of a century, the rightwing UDI party has held a lock on what Chilean pollsters call \u201cthe military family\u201d, a conservative and influential bloc of voters. But moves to shut down a country club-style prison for imprisoned military officers and ongoing efforts to jail human rights violators has led to claims that even the pro-Pinochet UDI party has abandoned their former hero.When Labb\u00e9 was detained last week, a parade of rightwing politicians including senators went to honour their former colleague, though they sought to describe the visit as purely \u201chumane\u201d and not political.\u201cIt is a party destined to be minority and most of all fascist,\u201d said Chilean senator Alejandro Navarro in an interview with CNN.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Augusto Pinochet\u2019s grandson to launch new rightwing party in Chile"},{"date": "2014-10-29T07:00:05Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Historically, Chile has imported the majority of its energy at great cost to its poorest citizens. Chileans in remote communities which rely on diesel generators for their electricity supply pay more than twice the amount per kilowatt hour than people do in the UK. They pay as much as 35p/kwh while UK customers are currently paying an average of 14p/kwh.\u201cChile is the second least self-sufficient country in Latin America after Panama, and currently imports 75% of its energy resources,\u201d says Christoph Tagwerker, a consultant at Inter-American Development Bank. Access to drinking water is also a problem. Chileans in isolated communities are reliant on tankers for delivering water, which is costly. Settlements in the north of Chile (Norte Grande, Norte Chico) and in the far south (Aysen, Magallenes and Chile\u2019s off shore islands) could all benefit from desalination projects that turn sea water into drinking water \u2013 if they had a cheap source of electricity to power these projects.But with a little help from Scotland, Chile may be on course to make a dramatic reversal in its energy fortunes. Experts in Scotland think that renewable energy from the sea \u2013 wave and tidal energy \u2013 could provide cheap electricity to Chile\u2019s remote communities and be used to power desalination and water pumping.Gareth Davies is managing director of Aquatera, a Scottish renewable energy consultancy with many years of experience in marine energy. \u201cIn terms of wave-energy resource Chile is one of the richest, if not the richest countries in the world,\u201d he says. \u201cIt\u2019s coastline receives more wave energy than any other country in the world.\u201d The total available wave resource in Chile is estimated to be 240 gigawatts \u2013 10 times more electricity than it currently uses.Theoretically, Chile has enough resources to become an energy exporter. At some point in the future, when a cost-effective way of transporting energy long distance has been found.It\u2019s still early days, but the Chilean government has awarded the contract to launch a centre of excellence in marine energy and pilot schemes are expected to be launched soon. Aquatera has been working to develop marine energy in Chile for six years, and Davies wants Chile to benefit from Scotland\u2019s experience, leapfrogging some of the mistakes they made. \u201cScotland didn\u2019t focus on the need to develop grids, ports and the supply chain technology,\u201d he says. \u201cWe didn\u2019t realise how important [associated infrastructure] was. It\u2019s been left to the supply chain and local authorities to make those things happen.\u201dThe situation in Chile is slightly different as its energy markets are local rather than national. From a geographical perspective this is entirely logical; Chile is a long strip of a country, running down the west coast of South America, between the Pacific Ocean and the Andes. It ranges from hot desert in the north, to freezing lands in the south, and in between there are fjords, opens coasts and offshore islands. Each of those regions presents different opportunities for energy generation and different markets for energy supply. The electricity grid in Chile is patchy; it has a little bit of solar here, some conventional power plants there, and thousands of people in remote areas completely dependent on expensive shipments of diesel, which they use to power small-scale generators. It makes far more sense to bring the energy on land from the coast to the towns on a longitudinal basis \u2013 rather than trying to bring it in at one point and run it through a national grid to inaccessible places. Davies says that Chile is well-equipped with the skills needed to implement a marine energy strategy:\u201cChile is leading the way economically in South America. It\u2019s got a tradition of shipbuilding, of fishing, of aquaculture; it\u2019s got an extensive electro-engineering network and a huge tradition of mining. Those industries provide a skills base that is equal or better than others in terms of the deployment of technology.\u201dDavies adds that the country is attractive to investors: \u201cLots of people inside and outside Chile are interested in it as an investment location because of its strong economic performance.\u201d A report by Aquatera for the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office says that marine energy will be as cheap as most other forms of energy in Chile by 2020, and that it is already \u2013 even in these very early days \u2013 on a par with the price people are paying for diesel electricity in the remote areas.There are commercial markets that are already viable and prices always come down once a technology is implemented on a larger scale. Now it\u2019s just a matter of getting on with it.Read more stories like this:\u2022 From Cape Town to Kinshasa: could the Great Inga dam power half of Africa?\u2022 Why has \u2018microhydro\u2019 been neglected as a solution to energy poverty?\u2022 Can coffee stimulate renewable energy in Central America?\u2022 Advertisment feature: Barefoot inspiration: power to the people, from the peopleJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter. ", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Renewable energy: access and investment - global development professionals network", "Race and inequality", "Scotland", "Wave and tidal power", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Engineering", "Access to water", "Water"], "title": "Scottish sea power: driving down energy prices in Chile"},{"date": "2014-11-07T10:27:53Z", "country": "chile", "content": "To ensure our children get the most value from studying science, we must move beyond traditional teaching methods. And that\u2019s what Chile\u2019s El Programa de Educaci\u00f3n en Ciencias basado en la Indagaci\u00f3n (ECBI), (Inquiry-Based Science Education Programme) offers. ECBI is a joint initiative between the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Chile, Anglo American and communities in Chile\u2019s Catemu and Panquehue districts, inspired by the belief that high quality science education is important for all children.Our approach focuses on the fundamental question \u2013 why? It places scientific questioning at the heart of the learning process and in this way, children experience an education that respects their individuality, without compromising their freedom to develop and solve problems with classmates and adults. Being part of the ECBI team in Catemu and Panquehue has allowed me to witness the multitude of positive changes as a direct result of the programme, which has been hugely rewarding. For example, students have grown to such an extent that they are now able to examine the importance and effectiveness of what they are learning. They conduct investigations, make observations, and communicate their own ideas based on evidence.This process not only expands a child\u2019s understanding of the natural and material world, but also stimulates their curiosity and prepares them for lifelong learning. It contributes to the full expression of their creative potential, improving their quality of life and enriching the community.But it doesn\u2019t stop with the children. Our team acknowledges the need to connect a teacher\u2019s professional development to student learning. In doing so, we have discovered that:To encourage maximum adoption of the ECBI approach, we encourage those teachers who actively conduct inquiry lessons to share their experiences and work collaboratively with those who only conduct pre-inquiry lessons. Meanwhile, we offer the 12% of teachers who show resistance to the approach a supervisor who has been specially trained to facilitate the adoption of the methodology.The ECBI mission is an inspiration to local communities and has been successful in both Catemu and Panquehue districts, with parents describing the many positive changes that they have seen in their children. However, as with any initiative, it\u2019s not without its challenges. Therefore, to maintain momentum, we need to continue to communicate the benefits of ECBI, encouraging teachers and students alike to embrace this innovative approach to science education.Pilar Reyes is executive director for ECBICopy on this page is paid for and provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hubOther articles of interest from Anglo American:", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone"], "title": "The ECBI programme in Chile: taking a different approach to science education"},{"date": "2014-12-02T16:25:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I have been obsessed with chillies since my first trip to Mexico 20 years ago: I was hooked by their heat, and how alive it made me feel, but then I began to learn about all the nuances of flavour and different heat levels. The hardest thing is knowing when to use which chilli. This week, two simple but delicious recipes using two great chillies: the ancho, which is sweet, fruity and barely hot; and chipotle, all smoky and fiery. Both are widely available online and in supermarkets, but I\u2019ve listed a few substitutes in case you can\u2019t get your hands on them. Venison is one of the healthiest meats: high in protein and low in fat. Here, it lends itself beautifully to an English-inspired chile con carne, or picadillo as the authentic Mexican version is called. I use mince, as they do in Mexico, and the beauty is that you don\u2019t have to brown the meat, because there is already so much flavour in the caramelised fruit, spices and chilli. Quince is at the end of its season, so if you can\u2019t find it, use a pear or apple instead. Serves four.3 ancho chillies (or 2 tbsp sweet smoked paprika)50ml olive or rapeseed oil\u00bd quince (200g)1 plantain (160g), diced small100g prunes, chopped into 1cm dice1 large onion, peeled and chopped1 small cinnamon stick1 tsp allspice berries, ground1 small handful finely chopped rosemary1kg venison mince3 garlic cloves, peeled and finely chopped1 tin plum tomatoes250ml red wine100g blanched almonds, toasted and roughly choppedPull open the ancho chillies, shake out the seeds and tear into large pieces. Heat a large casserole on medium-high and toast the chilli pieces for five to 10 seconds a side, until they have slightly darkened, the skin has become more supple and they are releasing a wonderful smell. Quickly take them out of the hot pan (you don\u2019t want them to burn or they taste bitter), cover with boiling water and leave to soak.Add a tablespoon of oil to the same pan and add the quince, plantain and prunes. Cook for five minutes, until golden and caramelised all over, then transfer to a bowl with a slotted spoon. Add a tablespoon or two of oil to the pan, add the onion, spices and rosemary, seasoning generously, and cook for five minutes, until the onion is softening, then add the meat and garlic. Cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, then drain the ancho chillies and blitz with the tomatoes. Add this pureee, the wine and the reserved fruit to the pot, and simmer gently for 15 minutes. Check for seasoning, leave to cool and refrigerate \u2013 this dish is much better eaten a day after it\u2019s made, because that gives the flavours a chance to develop. It also freezes beautifully.To serve, reheat the picadillo gently over a medium heat. Meanwhile, toast the almonds in a dry frying pan over a medium heat for five to 10 minutes, shaking every so often, until pale golden all over, then roughly chop. Serve the stew over a brilliant-orange squash puree, some sprouts (see below) or steamed kale, and scatter the almonds on top.Sprouts aren\u2019t just for Christmas. They are an incredibly versatile vegetable, and my children love them fried in butter and honey. They are \u2013 a far cry from the over-boiled sprouts of yore. Here is a wonderfully smoky, grown-up version, great as a side dish or starter. Chipotles en adobo is a relish made from chipotles: if you can\u2019t get it, use a dried chipotle instead, deseeded, simmered in water for 20 minutes to soften and pureed; failing that, use smoked paprika.Serves four to six.500g brussels sprouts45g hazelnuts (or almonds; optional)60g butter1 tbsp chipotle en adobo (or 1 tsp hot smoked paprika)1 tbsp honeyJuice of 1 limeWash and tail the sprouts, cut away any discoloured/damaged outer leaves, and cut into halves. Put a large, heavy-bottomed frying pan on a medium heat and, when hot, toast the hazelnuts (if using) for five to 10 minutes, tossing every so often so they toast all over. Tip into a clean tea towel, wrap up and rub so the skins come off the nuts; roughly chop the nuts, and set aside.Turn the heat under the pan right up, add the butter and season with salt (be generous). Wait for the butter to start foaming, then cook until the solids turn a rich deep brown and it smells deliciously nutty. Throw in the sprouts, fry for a few minutes, then turn them over and cook for five minutes more, tossing every so often so they colour all over; they should be almost cooked by this stage.Add the honey and chipotle to the pan, toss to coat the sprouts and squeeze in the lime juice. Leave to heat through for a minute, then turn out into a bowl. Scatter with the nuts (if using), and serve.Stuff leftover picadillo into baked potatoes, sprinkle with cheese and return to the oven to heat through \u2013 delicious with a crisp chicory salad. Toast double the amount of anchos and puree the excess (without the tomatoes) to make a wonderful marinade for lamb or beef. Cut any extra quince into slices and roast with honey and lemon juice: it\u2019s fab on morning yoghurt or porridge. Make more sprouts and save some for a midweek tea: toss in a pan to reheat, and serve over rice or quinoa loosened with sesame oil, and top with feta. Chipotles work in mayo, meatballs or just about anything you want to give a smoky, fiery heat.\u2022 Thomasina Miers is co-owner of the Wahaca group of Mexican restaurants.Follow Thomasina on Twitter", "tags": ["Life and style", "Food & drink", "Main course", "Side dish", "Mexican food and drink"], "title": "The weekend cook: Thomasina Miers\u2019 chilli recipes \u2013 venison picadillo (aka chile con carne) and brussels sprouts with chipotle and honey"},{"date": "2014-11-18T12:15:14Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The world\u2019s linguistic map is a colourful patchwork. From the tip of the Arctic to the remote villages of sub-saharan Africa, 6,000 languages are spoken across the globe. But according to Unesco, if nothing is done to protect them, half of these languages will have disappeared by the end of this century.In the Andean region of South America, the struggles of one language in particular may hold potential lessons for other endangered languages. The Amerindian language of Quechua has a reach that stretches across southern Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Chile and Argentina. It dates back 2,000 years, dominated the communication of the Incas, and today is used by more people \u2013 about 8 million \u2013 than any other indigenous language in all of the Americas, according to Professor Rosaleen Howard, chair of Hispanic Studies in the School of Modern Languages at Newcastle University.But like so many other languages, Quechua is under threat. In certain areas it has disappeared completely, according to Howard, who specialises in the language. One such area is the mountainous province of Huarochiri in the department of Lima, Peru. \u201cBack in the colonial period there was a priest who documented all the different myths and oral traditions ... But today if you go to that region, the language is no longer spoken\u201d, said Howard, adding that they now speak Spanish.Quechua\u2019s history is long, its trajectory diverse. According to the estimates of historical linguists, it dates back to a small area in the central Andes, in what is now Peru. Over the course of some 1,000 years, it was common for Quechua speakers to be in close contact with speakers of Aymara, another indigenous language in the region, and this has very much influenced its trajectory. \u201cThere\u2019s been a kind of bifurcation in Quechua\u201d, Howard explained, adding: \u201cOne could say that the diversity of Quechua weakens its chances of survival to some extent.\u201d An example of this is that the Peruvian government has mainly focused its preservation efforts on the southern varieties of the language and less on those that are concentrated in central Peru.Quechua\u2019s demise is now in a vicious cycle. Howard pointed out that many rural Andeans will have faced strong discrimination in educational opportunities and employment because of speaking Quechua rather than Spanish. \u201cWhen people move from rural areas to the cities they need Spanish in order to get jobs and education; there is no alternative.\u201dIt\u2019s a reality that has been passed down over generations. Many rural Andeans, thinking it best for their children, tell them they won\u2019t get anywhere in life without Spanish and more and more frequently refuse to speak Quechua with them. The paradox here is that among more educated people, there\u2019s currently a strong push for language revitalisation. But away from the urban elites, ordinary people aren\u2019t aware of this, said Howard.\u201cThe people who push for language revitalisation tend to be the more educated people who are bilingual. They have acquired Spanish through migration to the cities and getting into higher education.\u201dShe added that rural people are often not even aware that their languages are under threat, as they continue to speak them in their everyday lives. \u201cIt is only when there are incursions onto their land by colonisers, or when they and their children want to migrate to the cities that the need for Spanish occurs.\u201dVarious efforts are being made to preserve Quechua. Multilingual education (MLE), which allows children to learn in their mother tongue throughout early years of schooling, while gradually introducing the official language as a second language, has been in place for all indigenous people in Bolivia since an education reform in 1994.But while the aim was to encourage cultural understanding and promote a more respectful society, Howard is critical of how MLE was rolled out in Bolivia. \u201cOne of the reasons those programmes don\u2019t work fully is that the indigenous people feel yet again is that it\u2019s a way of keeping them separate from society.\u201dHoward highlighted a government initiative in Bolivia that she believes does work. When the constitution was revised in 2009 it decreed that all 37 languages of the country were official. It became a requirement that all state employees had to know at least one indigenous language. For employability, she said, this is a step in the right direction. \u201cNowadays, there really are lots of openings for people who speak not just Spanish but also one of the indigenous languages\u201d, she said.More recently in Bolivia, it has become a legal requirement for civil servants to speak an indigenous language in addition to Spanish if they want to keep their jobs: \u201cThere are government sponsored training courses which are making an impact without a doubt. Also, teaching of these languages in higher education is on the rise and their use in TV and media is increasing.\u201dSo why is it so important to protect and preserve languages like Quechua? For Howard, the protection of indigenous languages is a matter of human rights: \u201cIt comes home to how unjust it is that people should live in a society where they have been forced to abandon those languages or suppress them in favour of speaking this dominant tongue\u201d.Read more stories like this:\u2022 Three European languages that you didn\u2019t know existed\u2022 \u2018In the Patagonian desert I met a petrol attendant who spoke perfect Welsh\u2019\u2022 Most language students unable to do more than understand basic phrases", "tags": ["Languages", "Education", "Indigenous peoples", "Bolivia", "South America holidays"], "title": "What can we learn from efforts to save an ancient South American language?"},{"date": "2014-10-09T18:32:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We express our condolences and solidarity to Venezuela following the murder of Robert Serra (27), the national assembly\u2019s youngest parliamentarian, who was found dead in his home on October 1 (theguardian.com, 8 October).Government officials have stated it was tied to a terrorist plot from extreme elements of the rightwing opposition, with the secretary general of the Union of South American Nations, former Colombian president Ernesto Samper, saying: \u201cThe assassination of the young legislator Robert Serra in Venezuela is a worrying sign of the infiltration of Colombian paramilitarism.\u201dWorryingly, Serra\u2019s murder joins the list of other assassinations of government figures and the situation resembles the prelude to the overthrow of Salvador Allende in Chile, when sections of the Chilean opposition did not distance themselves from violent actions, including the assassination of a general.We condemn this murder and other examples of extreme, anti-democratic violence aimed at destabilising Venezuela\u2019s elected government.Ken Livingstone President, Venezuela Solidarity Campaign, Colin Burgon Labour Friends of Venezuela, Tariq Ali, Diane Abbott MP, Baroness Janet Royall Leader of the opposition in the House of Lords, Tony Burke Assistant general secretary, Unite the Union, Mike Wood MP, Elaine Smith MSP, Lord Nic Rea, George Galloway MP, Neil Findlay MSP, Katy Clark MP, Jeremy Corbyn MP, Mike Hedges, Welsh AM, Jenny Rathbone Welsh AM, John McDonnell MP, Michael Connarty MP, Kate Hudson General Secretary, CND, Lindsey German Convenor, Stop the War Coalition, Salma Yaqoob, Andy De La Tour, Victoria Brittain, Billy Hayes, General secretary, CWU, Mick Whelan General secretary, Aslef, Doug Nicholls General secretary, General Federation of Trade Unions, Ronnie Draper General Secretary, BFAWU, Roger McKenzie Assistant general secretary, Unison, Professor Peter Hallward Kingston University, Dr Francisco Dominguez, Head, Centre for Latin American Studies, Middlesex University", "tags": ["Venezuela", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Venezuela: the disturbing message of Robert Serra\u2019s murder | @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-12-04T12:42:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In Patronato, a poor quarter of Santiago, the Palestinian community meets at the Beit Jala cafe. It\u2019s just a step away from San Jorge, Chile\u2019s oldest orthodox church founded by the first Palestinian migrants in 1917. Here the elders sip their coffee and savour oriental pastries. The walls are covered with photographs of Beit Jala, the village from where most of the Palestinians in Chile originated.\u201cI\u2019m a third-generation Chilean,\u201d says landlord Juan Bishara. His grandfather arrived in the 1950s. He speaks mostly Arabic to his customers, apart from to the younger Spanish-speaking generation. The community has one secondary and two primary schools. \u201cOur neighbourhood is know as the Arab quarter, though a lot of shops are now run by more recent migrants, from Korea and Bolivia,\u201d he adds.Chile is home to the largest Palestinian community outside the Middle East. There are no official statistics but estimates suggest between 150,000 to 400,000 people of Palestinian origin from first- to third-generation migrants. In keeping with their ancestors, 95% are Christians, which has helped integration. More than three-quarters of them moved here between 1900 and 1930, mainly from four villages: Belen, Beit Jala, Beit Sahour and Beit Safafa. The parents of historian Juan Sakalha left the Christian village of Tayebh, 12km from Ramallah, in 1915, arriving in Valparaiso (120km north of Santiago) after a gruelling journey. They passed through Beirut, Marseille, Panama, S\u00e3o Paulo and Buenos Aires, crossing the Andes on donkeys.Most were small farmers or artisans, but literate. They settled in the capital and beyond. \u201cThere isn\u2019t a single village in Chile lacking a curate, a policeman and a Palestinian,\u201d according to a well-known saying. In Santiago they chose Patronato because the rents were low and it was close to the main market. In 1910 newcomers headed for Jorge Shahuran\u2019s general store on the corner of Patronato and Santa Filomena. Here they could get assistance settling in and pass on news from home. The community started publishing its first paper, Al-Murshid, in 1912.Their greatest source of pride is the Club Deportivo Palestino professional football side. Established in 1920, it is the world\u2019s only top-division club to sport the Palestinian colours. It has its own ground, at La Cisterna. In January players replaced the number one on their jerseys with an elongated map of pre-1948 Palestine. They won their next three matches. But Chile\u2019s 17,000-strong Jewish community protested against such \u201cpolitical exploitation of soccer\u201d and accused the Palestinians of importing a conflict that they claimed had more to do with religion than territory.The Football Federation of Chile summoned Palestino president Maurice Khamis Massu and banned the jerseys, fining the club $15,000. The players then tattooed the map of Palestine on their forearms. The controversy became news across the world and now the club\u2019s jerseys, particularly number 11, have been selling like hot cakes. \u201cA win by Palestino is a joy for the suffering Palestinian people. The terrible events in Gaza have strengthened our links with Palestine and our roots,\u201d Massu says.He was three when his family arrived in Chile, following the creation of the state of Israel. He is a member of the Belen 2000 foundation, which awards scholarships to children in Palestine and sends doctors to work there.The Palestinian Federation of Chile is made up of several organisations including Palestino. It \u201chas gained in importance in recent years as the conflict over Gaza has deteriorated\u201d, president Mauricio Abu-Gosh says. \u201cOur aim is to raise public awareness of the Palestinian cause and promote the unity of the Palestinian community in Chile.\u201dIt is certainly influential, accounting for 10% of senate seats and 11% of the lower chamber, representing a broad political spectrum reaching from the Communist party to the Conservatives. Palestinians head nine local councils, and there are 26 municipal councillors of Palestinian origin. Deputy interior minister Mahmud Aleuy\u2019s family hails from Palestine.Abu-Gosh acknowledges the existence of a \u201chorizontal lobby\u201d that has scored several \u201cbig successes\u201d. In 2008 Chile welcomed 130 refugees fleeing the conflict in Iraq. The socialist president, Michelle Bachelet, held a reception for them at the Moneda palace, seat of the presidency, on the anniversary of al-Nakba (in May 1948, when Palestinians fled or were expelled from lands for the creation of Israel). Bachelet did not attend the ceremony at the Israeli embassy celebrating the creation of Israel. In 2011, the then conservative president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, visited Palestine and endorsed its claim to statehood.In August, as Israel resumed military operations against Gaza, Bachelet, re-elected in March, recalled the Chilean ambassador to Tel Aviv. Thousands of people demonstrated in Santiago in solidarity with Palestine. The ambassador only resumed his functions once a ceasefire had been arranged. Several neighbouring countries followed suit, the exception being Argentina, home to the largest Jewish community (250,000-strong) in Latin America.Gerardo Gorodischer, leader of the Jewish community in Chile, deplores \u201cthe confusion between Jews and Israel\u201d and the rise of \u201cantisemitism unprecedented in Chile\u201d. He goes so far as to say: \u201cWe are enduring a pogrom, without the Chilean government lifting a finger. The most prosperous people are thinking of moving to the United States.\u201d He claims that the Israeli flag was burned at several pro-Palestine demonstrations. Palestinian leaders maintain this was the work of \u201cradical groups which are not representative of the community\u201d.\u201cI\u2019m a Chilean, a Palestinian and a communist,\u201d says Daniel Jahud, 47, leader of the local council at Recoleta, part of which overlaps with Patronato. He is proud of the fact that Salvador Allende, the socialist president overthrown by General Augusto Pinochet in 1973, should be buried in the district he governs. \u201cLooking back in history the various religious communities co-existed peacefully until the artificial creation of the Israeli state by Europeans,\u201d he says. \u201cThe conflict is not about religion. Relations are poor, not with Jews but with the Zionists who represent the Israeli government in Chile.\u201dIntegration was difficult in Chile. The country was very conservative and treated the Palestinians as second-class immigrants, unlike the British, Germans and French who had won over the aristocracy. But despite cultural differences Palestinians were soon assimilated into the middle classes. Some families now command the biggest fortunes in the country. In the 1930s they built powerful textile industries, the Banco de Cr\u00e9dito e Inversiones and an insurance company. In the early years, in the face of hostility many Palestinians married outside their community and even in the 1970s this pattern was true of over two-thirds of marriages.Another, more upmarket rallying point for the community is the Palestinian Club at Las Condes, a residential neighbourhood. Founded in 2007 its parks and gardens spread over 11 hectares, with palm trees and superb views of the snow-capped peaks of the Andes. It has an Olympic-size swimming pool, tennis courts and football pitches but no oriental architecture. The club house is all timber and glass. Anuar Majluf, the club\u2019s thirtysomething head of communications, says he feels more Chilean than anything else, nevertheless acknowledging that the \u201cGaza conflict has rekindled the Palestinian identity in Chile\u201d. He tempers that view by adding: \u201cWe\u2019re not attempting to import the conflict, rather it is important to us.\u201dThis article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde\u2022 This article was amended on 4 December 2014 to amend the size of Chile\u2019s Jewish community from 70,000 to 17,000", "tags": ["Chile", "Gaza", "Israel", "Americas", "Palestinian territories", "Football", "Migration and development", "Global development"], "title": "Chile\u2019s Gaza sympathisers rally behind Palestinian football colours"},{"date": "2014-10-28T21:33:54Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The grandson of Augusto Pinochet is organising followers of the former dictator to launch a political party in Chile.\u201cRepublican Order My Country\u201d [Orden Republicano Mi Patria] is the name of the political movement. It condemns gay marriage yet supports legalised marijuana and reforms to the Pinochet-era constitution.Though the pro-Pinochet forces have been organised for at least six years as a movement known as \u201cFor My Country\u201d, after the arrest of a top Pinochet aide last week, Augusto Pinochet Molina, grandson of the dictator, stepped up formation of what supporters described as a centre-right political party.While the proposed party acknowledges that the military abused citizens, they never speak of a dictatorship but of a \u201cmilitary government\u201d followed by \u201ca witch hunt\u201d and a \u201cvendetta\u201d that jailed dozens of officers for the murder and disappearance of some 3,200 Chileans during the 17 years of Pinochet\u2019s rule.Pinochet Molina this week also sent out hundreds of invitations to the 99th birthday party of the dictator to be celebrated on 25 November. The location remains secret but among the invited guests is Cristian Labb\u00e9, a former Pinochet bodyguard charged last week with being part of a conspiracy to kidnap and murder 13 political prisoners.A former captain in the Chilean army, Pinochet Molina was kicked out of the military after an impromptu speech he made at his grandfather\u2019s 2006 funeral in Santiago, in which he applauded his grandfather\u2019s campaign to \u201cdefeat Marxism\u201d in Chile. A one time candidate for congress, Pinochet Molina is now positioning himself to run for office again.\u201cAugusto wanted to invite him because it is known that Labb\u00e9 is a grand admirer of his grandfather, so for that very reason it would be an honour,\u201d said Paolo Zarate, general secretary of For My Country in an interview.Pinochet Molina\u2019s decision to launch a political party is the latest salvo in a battle to lay claim to the now-deceased dictator\u2019s legacy. For nearly a quarter of a century, the rightwing UDI party has held a lock on what Chilean pollsters call \u201cthe military family\u201d, a conservative and influential bloc of voters. But moves to shut down a country club-style prison for imprisoned military officers and ongoing efforts to jail human rights violators has led to claims that even the pro-Pinochet UDI party has abandoned their former hero.When Labb\u00e9 was detained last week, a parade of rightwing politicians including senators went to honour their former colleague, though they sought to describe the visit as purely \u201chumane\u201d and not political.\u201cIt is a party destined to be minority and most of all fascist,\u201d said Chilean senator Alejandro Navarro in an interview with CNN.", "tags": ["Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Augusto Pinochet"], "title": "Augusto Pinochet\u2019s grandson to launch new rightwing party in Chile"},{"date": "2014-10-29T07:00:05Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Historically, Chile has imported the majority of its energy at great cost to its poorest citizens. Chileans in remote communities which rely on diesel generators for their electricity supply pay more than twice the amount per kilowatt hour than people do in the UK. They pay as much as 35p/kwh while UK customers are currently paying an average of 14p/kwh.\u201cChile is the second least self-sufficient country in Latin America after Panama, and currently imports 75% of its energy resources,\u201d says Christoph Tagwerker, a consultant at Inter-American Development Bank. Access to drinking water is also a problem. Chileans in isolated communities are reliant on tankers for delivering water, which is costly. Settlements in the north of Chile (Norte Grande, Norte Chico) and in the far south (Aysen, Magallenes and Chile\u2019s off shore islands) could all benefit from desalination projects that turn sea water into drinking water \u2013 if they had a cheap source of electricity to power these projects.But with a little help from Scotland, Chile may be on course to make a dramatic reversal in its energy fortunes. Experts in Scotland think that renewable energy from the sea \u2013 wave and tidal energy \u2013 could provide cheap electricity to Chile\u2019s remote communities and be used to power desalination and water pumping.Gareth Davies is managing director of Aquatera, a Scottish renewable energy consultancy with many years of experience in marine energy. \u201cIn terms of wave-energy resource Chile is one of the richest, if not the richest countries in the world,\u201d he says. \u201cIt\u2019s coastline receives more wave energy than any other country in the world.\u201d The total available wave resource in Chile is estimated to be 240 gigawatts \u2013 10 times more electricity than it currently uses.Theoretically, Chile has enough resources to become an energy exporter. At some point in the future, when a cost-effective way of transporting energy long distance has been found.It\u2019s still early days, but the Chilean government has awarded the contract to launch a centre of excellence in marine energy and pilot schemes are expected to be launched soon. Aquatera has been working to develop marine energy in Chile for six years, and Davies wants Chile to benefit from Scotland\u2019s experience, leapfrogging some of the mistakes they made. \u201cScotland didn\u2019t focus on the need to develop grids, ports and the supply chain technology,\u201d he says. \u201cWe didn\u2019t realise how important [associated infrastructure] was. It\u2019s been left to the supply chain and local authorities to make those things happen.\u201dThe situation in Chile is slightly different as its energy markets are local rather than national. From a geographical perspective this is entirely logical; Chile is a long strip of a country, running down the west coast of South America, between the Pacific Ocean and the Andes. It ranges from hot desert in the north, to freezing lands in the south, and in between there are fjords, opens coasts and offshore islands. Each of those regions presents different opportunities for energy generation and different markets for energy supply. The electricity grid in Chile is patchy; it has a little bit of solar here, some conventional power plants there, and thousands of people in remote areas completely dependent on expensive shipments of diesel, which they use to power small-scale generators. It makes far more sense to bring the energy on land from the coast to the towns on a longitudinal basis \u2013 rather than trying to bring it in at one point and run it through a national grid to inaccessible places. Davies says that Chile is well-equipped with the skills needed to implement a marine energy strategy:\u201cChile is leading the way economically in South America. It\u2019s got a tradition of shipbuilding, of fishing, of aquaculture; it\u2019s got an extensive electro-engineering network and a huge tradition of mining. Those industries provide a skills base that is equal or better than others in terms of the deployment of technology.\u201dDavies adds that the country is attractive to investors: \u201cLots of people inside and outside Chile are interested in it as an investment location because of its strong economic performance.\u201d A report by Aquatera for the UK Foreign and Commonwealth Office says that marine energy will be as cheap as most other forms of energy in Chile by 2020, and that it is already \u2013 even in these very early days \u2013 on a par with the price people are paying for diesel electricity in the remote areas.There are commercial markets that are already viable and prices always come down once a technology is implemented on a larger scale. Now it\u2019s just a matter of getting on with it.Read more stories like this:\u2022 From Cape Town to Kinshasa: could the Great Inga dam power half of Africa?\u2022 Why has \u2018microhydro\u2019 been neglected as a solution to energy poverty?\u2022 Can coffee stimulate renewable energy in Central America?\u2022 Advertisment feature: Barefoot inspiration: power to the people, from the peopleJoin our community of development professionals and humanitarians. Follow @GuardianGDP on Twitter. ", "tags": ["Global development professionals network", "Renewable energy: access and investment - global development professionals network", "Race and inequality", "Scotland", "Wave and tidal power", "Energy", "Renewable energy", "Engineering", "Access to water", "Water"], "title": "Scottish sea power: driving down energy prices in Chile"},{"date": "2014-11-07T10:27:53Z", "country": "chile", "content": "To ensure our children get the most value from studying science, we must move beyond traditional teaching methods. And that\u2019s what Chile\u2019s El Programa de Educaci\u00f3n en Ciencias basado en la Indagaci\u00f3n (ECBI), (Inquiry-Based Science Education Programme) offers. ECBI is a joint initiative between the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Chile, Anglo American and communities in Chile\u2019s Catemu and Panquehue districts, inspired by the belief that high quality science education is important for all children.Our approach focuses on the fundamental question \u2013 why? It places scientific questioning at the heart of the learning process and in this way, children experience an education that respects their individuality, without compromising their freedom to develop and solve problems with classmates and adults. Being part of the ECBI team in Catemu and Panquehue has allowed me to witness the multitude of positive changes as a direct result of the programme, which has been hugely rewarding. For example, students have grown to such an extent that they are now able to examine the importance and effectiveness of what they are learning. They conduct investigations, make observations, and communicate their own ideas based on evidence.This process not only expands a child\u2019s understanding of the natural and material world, but also stimulates their curiosity and prepares them for lifelong learning. It contributes to the full expression of their creative potential, improving their quality of life and enriching the community.But it doesn\u2019t stop with the children. Our team acknowledges the need to connect a teacher\u2019s professional development to student learning. In doing so, we have discovered that:To encourage maximum adoption of the ECBI approach, we encourage those teachers who actively conduct inquiry lessons to share their experiences and work collaboratively with those who only conduct pre-inquiry lessons. Meanwhile, we offer the 12% of teachers who show resistance to the approach a supervisor who has been specially trained to facilitate the adoption of the methodology.The ECBI mission is an inspiration to local communities and has been successful in both Catemu and Panquehue districts, with parents describing the many positive changes that they have seen in their children. However, as with any initiative, it\u2019s not without its challenges. Therefore, to maintain momentum, we need to continue to communicate the benefits of ECBI, encouraging teachers and students alike to embrace this innovative approach to science education.Pilar Reyes is executive director for ECBICopy on this page is paid for and provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hubOther articles of interest from Anglo American:", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone"], "title": "The ECBI programme in Chile: taking a different approach to science education"},{"date": "2014-12-02T16:25:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "I have been obsessed with chillies since my first trip to Mexico 20 years ago: I was hooked by their heat, and how alive it made me feel, but then I began to learn about all the nuances of flavour and different heat levels. The hardest thing is knowing when to use which chilli. This week, two simple but delicious recipes using two great chillies: the ancho, which is sweet, fruity and barely hot; and chipotle, all smoky and fiery. Both are widely available online and in supermarkets, but I\u2019ve listed a few substitutes in case you can\u2019t get your hands on them. Venison is one of the healthiest meats: high in protein and low in fat. Here, it lends itself beautifully to an English-inspired chile con carne, or picadillo as the authentic Mexican version is called. I use mince, as they do in Mexico, and the beauty is that you don\u2019t have to brown the meat, because there is already so much flavour in the caramelised fruit, spices and chilli. Quince is at the end of its season, so if you can\u2019t find it, use a pear or apple instead. Serves four.3 ancho chillies (or 2 tbsp sweet smoked paprika)50ml olive or rapeseed oil\u00bd quince (200g)1 plantain (160g), diced small100g prunes, chopped into 1cm dice1 large onion, peeled and chopped1 small cinnamon stick1 tsp allspice berries, ground1 small handful finely chopped rosemary1kg venison mince3 garlic cloves, peeled and finely chopped1 tin plum tomatoes250ml red wine100g blanched almonds, toasted and roughly choppedPull open the ancho chillies, shake out the seeds and tear into large pieces. Heat a large casserole on medium-high and toast the chilli pieces for five to 10 seconds a side, until they have slightly darkened, the skin has become more supple and they are releasing a wonderful smell. Quickly take them out of the hot pan (you don\u2019t want them to burn or they taste bitter), cover with boiling water and leave to soak.Add a tablespoon of oil to the same pan and add the quince, plantain and prunes. Cook for five minutes, until golden and caramelised all over, then transfer to a bowl with a slotted spoon. Add a tablespoon or two of oil to the pan, add the onion, spices and rosemary, seasoning generously, and cook for five minutes, until the onion is softening, then add the meat and garlic. Cook for 10 minutes, stirring occasionally, then drain the ancho chillies and blitz with the tomatoes. Add this pureee, the wine and the reserved fruit to the pot, and simmer gently for 15 minutes. Check for seasoning, leave to cool and refrigerate \u2013 this dish is much better eaten a day after it\u2019s made, because that gives the flavours a chance to develop. It also freezes beautifully.To serve, reheat the picadillo gently over a medium heat. Meanwhile, toast the almonds in a dry frying pan over a medium heat for five to 10 minutes, shaking every so often, until pale golden all over, then roughly chop. Serve the stew over a brilliant-orange squash puree, some sprouts (see below) or steamed kale, and scatter the almonds on top.Sprouts aren\u2019t just for Christmas. They are an incredibly versatile vegetable, and my children love them fried in butter and honey. They are \u2013 a far cry from the over-boiled sprouts of yore. Here is a wonderfully smoky, grown-up version, great as a side dish or starter. Chipotles en adobo is a relish made from chipotles: if you can\u2019t get it, use a dried chipotle instead, deseeded, simmered in water for 20 minutes to soften and pureed; failing that, use smoked paprika.Serves four to six.500g brussels sprouts45g hazelnuts (or almonds; optional)60g butter1 tbsp chipotle en adobo (or 1 tsp hot smoked paprika)1 tbsp honeyJuice of 1 limeWash and tail the sprouts, cut away any discoloured/damaged outer leaves, and cut into halves. Put a large, heavy-bottomed frying pan on a medium heat and, when hot, toast the hazelnuts (if using) for five to 10 minutes, tossing every so often so they toast all over. Tip into a clean tea towel, wrap up and rub so the skins come off the nuts; roughly chop the nuts, and set aside.Turn the heat under the pan right up, add the butter and season with salt (be generous). Wait for the butter to start foaming, then cook until the solids turn a rich deep brown and it smells deliciously nutty. Throw in the sprouts, fry for a few minutes, then turn them over and cook for five minutes more, tossing every so often so they colour all over; they should be almost cooked by this stage.Add the honey and chipotle to the pan, toss to coat the sprouts and squeeze in the lime juice. Leave to heat through for a minute, then turn out into a bowl. Scatter with the nuts (if using), and serve.Stuff leftover picadillo into baked potatoes, sprinkle with cheese and return to the oven to heat through \u2013 delicious with a crisp chicory salad. Toast double the amount of anchos and puree the excess (without the tomatoes) to make a wonderful marinade for lamb or beef. Cut any extra quince into slices and roast with honey and lemon juice: it\u2019s fab on morning yoghurt or porridge. Make more sprouts and save some for a midweek tea: toss in a pan to reheat, and serve over rice or quinoa loosened with sesame oil, and top with feta. Chipotles work in mayo, meatballs or just about anything you want to give a smoky, fiery heat.\u2022 Thomasina Miers is co-owner of the Wahaca group of Mexican restaurants.Follow Thomasina on Twitter", "tags": ["Life and style", "Food & drink", "Main course", "Side dish", "Mexican food and drink"], "title": "The weekend cook: Thomasina Miers\u2019 chilli recipes \u2013 venison picadillo (aka chile con carne) and brussels sprouts with chipotle and honey"},{"date": "2014-11-18T12:15:14Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The world\u2019s linguistic map is a colourful patchwork. From the tip of the Arctic to the remote villages of sub-saharan Africa, 6,000 languages are spoken across the globe. But according to Unesco, if nothing is done to protect them, half of these languages will have disappeared by the end of this century.In the Andean region of South America, the struggles of one language in particular may hold potential lessons for other endangered languages. The Amerindian language of Quechua has a reach that stretches across southern Colombia, Ecuador, Peru, Bolivia, Chile and Argentina. It dates back 2,000 years, dominated the communication of the Incas, and today is used by more people \u2013 about 8 million \u2013 than any other indigenous language in all of the Americas, according to Professor Rosaleen Howard, chair of Hispanic Studies in the School of Modern Languages at Newcastle University.But like so many other languages, Quechua is under threat. In certain areas it has disappeared completely, according to Howard, who specialises in the language. One such area is the mountainous province of Huarochiri in the department of Lima, Peru. \u201cBack in the colonial period there was a priest who documented all the different myths and oral traditions ... But today if you go to that region, the language is no longer spoken\u201d, said Howard, adding that they now speak Spanish.Quechua\u2019s history is long, its trajectory diverse. According to the estimates of historical linguists, it dates back to a small area in the central Andes, in what is now Peru. Over the course of some 1,000 years, it was common for Quechua speakers to be in close contact with speakers of Aymara, another indigenous language in the region, and this has very much influenced its trajectory. \u201cThere\u2019s been a kind of bifurcation in Quechua\u201d, Howard explained, adding: \u201cOne could say that the diversity of Quechua weakens its chances of survival to some extent.\u201d An example of this is that the Peruvian government has mainly focused its preservation efforts on the southern varieties of the language and less on those that are concentrated in central Peru.Quechua\u2019s demise is now in a vicious cycle. Howard pointed out that many rural Andeans will have faced strong discrimination in educational opportunities and employment because of speaking Quechua rather than Spanish. \u201cWhen people move from rural areas to the cities they need Spanish in order to get jobs and education; there is no alternative.\u201dIt\u2019s a reality that has been passed down over generations. Many rural Andeans, thinking it best for their children, tell them they won\u2019t get anywhere in life without Spanish and more and more frequently refuse to speak Quechua with them. The paradox here is that among more educated people, there\u2019s currently a strong push for language revitalisation. But away from the urban elites, ordinary people aren\u2019t aware of this, said Howard.\u201cThe people who push for language revitalisation tend to be the more educated people who are bilingual. They have acquired Spanish through migration to the cities and getting into higher education.\u201dShe added that rural people are often not even aware that their languages are under threat, as they continue to speak them in their everyday lives. \u201cIt is only when there are incursions onto their land by colonisers, or when they and their children want to migrate to the cities that the need for Spanish occurs.\u201dVarious efforts are being made to preserve Quechua. Multilingual education (MLE), which allows children to learn in their mother tongue throughout early years of schooling, while gradually introducing the official language as a second language, has been in place for all indigenous people in Bolivia since an education reform in 1994.But while the aim was to encourage cultural understanding and promote a more respectful society, Howard is critical of how MLE was rolled out in Bolivia. \u201cOne of the reasons those programmes don\u2019t work fully is that the indigenous people feel yet again is that it\u2019s a way of keeping them separate from society.\u201dHoward highlighted a government initiative in Bolivia that she believes does work. When the constitution was revised in 2009 it decreed that all 37 languages of the country were official. It became a requirement that all state employees had to know at least one indigenous language. For employability, she said, this is a step in the right direction. \u201cNowadays, there really are lots of openings for people who speak not just Spanish but also one of the indigenous languages\u201d, she said.More recently in Bolivia, it has become a legal requirement for civil servants to speak an indigenous language in addition to Spanish if they want to keep their jobs: \u201cThere are government sponsored training courses which are making an impact without a doubt. Also, teaching of these languages in higher education is on the rise and their use in TV and media is increasing.\u201dSo why is it so important to protect and preserve languages like Quechua? For Howard, the protection of indigenous languages is a matter of human rights: \u201cIt comes home to how unjust it is that people should live in a society where they have been forced to abandon those languages or suppress them in favour of speaking this dominant tongue\u201d.Read more stories like this:\u2022 Three European languages that you didn\u2019t know existed\u2022 \u2018In the Patagonian desert I met a petrol attendant who spoke perfect Welsh\u2019\u2022 Most language students unable to do more than understand basic phrases", "tags": ["Languages", "Education", "Indigenous peoples", "Bolivia", "South America holidays"], "title": "What can we learn from efforts to save an ancient South American language?"},{"date": "2014-10-09T18:32:25Z", "country": "chile", "content": "We express our condolences and solidarity to Venezuela following the murder of Robert Serra (27), the national assembly\u2019s youngest parliamentarian, who was found dead in his home on October 1 (theguardian.com, 8 October).Government officials have stated it was tied to a terrorist plot from extreme elements of the rightwing opposition, with the secretary general of the Union of South American Nations, former Colombian president Ernesto Samper, saying: \u201cThe assassination of the young legislator Robert Serra in Venezuela is a worrying sign of the infiltration of Colombian paramilitarism.\u201dWorryingly, Serra\u2019s murder joins the list of other assassinations of government figures and the situation resembles the prelude to the overthrow of Salvador Allende in Chile, when sections of the Chilean opposition did not distance themselves from violent actions, including the assassination of a general.We condemn this murder and other examples of extreme, anti-democratic violence aimed at destabilising Venezuela\u2019s elected government.Ken Livingstone President, Venezuela Solidarity Campaign, Colin Burgon Labour Friends of Venezuela, Tariq Ali, Diane Abbott MP, Baroness Janet Royall Leader of the opposition in the House of Lords, Tony Burke Assistant general secretary, Unite the Union, Mike Wood MP, Elaine Smith MSP, Lord Nic Rea, George Galloway MP, Neil Findlay MSP, Katy Clark MP, Jeremy Corbyn MP, Mike Hedges, Welsh AM, Jenny Rathbone Welsh AM, John McDonnell MP, Michael Connarty MP, Kate Hudson General Secretary, CND, Lindsey German Convenor, Stop the War Coalition, Salma Yaqoob, Andy De La Tour, Victoria Brittain, Billy Hayes, General secretary, CWU, Mick Whelan General secretary, Aslef, Doug Nicholls General secretary, General Federation of Trade Unions, Ronnie Draper General Secretary, BFAWU, Roger McKenzie Assistant general secretary, Unison, Professor Peter Hallward Kingston University, Dr Francisco Dominguez, Head, Centre for Latin American Studies, Middlesex University", "tags": ["Venezuela", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Venezuela: the disturbing message of Robert Serra\u2019s murder | @guardianletters"},{"date": "2014-12-04T12:42:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "In Patronato, a poor quarter of Santiago, the Palestinian community meets at the Beit Jala cafe. It\u2019s just a step away from San Jorge, Chile\u2019s oldest orthodox church founded by the first Palestinian migrants in 1917. Here the elders sip their coffee and savour oriental pastries. The walls are covered with photographs of Beit Jala, the village from where most of the Palestinians in Chile originated.\u201cI\u2019m a third-generation Chilean,\u201d says landlord Juan Bishara. His grandfather arrived in the 1950s. He speaks mostly Arabic to his customers, apart from to the younger Spanish-speaking generation. The community has one secondary and two primary schools. \u201cOur neighbourhood is know as the Arab quarter, though a lot of shops are now run by more recent migrants, from Korea and Bolivia,\u201d he adds.Chile is home to the largest Palestinian community outside the Middle East. There are no official statistics but estimates suggest between 150,000 to 400,000 people of Palestinian origin from first- to third-generation migrants. In keeping with their ancestors, 95% are Christians, which has helped integration. More than three-quarters of them moved here between 1900 and 1930, mainly from four villages: Belen, Beit Jala, Beit Sahour and Beit Safafa. The parents of historian Juan Sakalha left the Christian village of Tayebh, 12km from Ramallah, in 1915, arriving in Valparaiso (120km north of Santiago) after a gruelling journey. They passed through Beirut, Marseille, Panama, S\u00e3o Paulo and Buenos Aires, crossing the Andes on donkeys.Most were small farmers or artisans, but literate. They settled in the capital and beyond. \u201cThere isn\u2019t a single village in Chile lacking a curate, a policeman and a Palestinian,\u201d according to a well-known saying. In Santiago they chose Patronato because the rents were low and it was close to the main market. In 1910 newcomers headed for Jorge Shahuran\u2019s general store on the corner of Patronato and Santa Filomena. Here they could get assistance settling in and pass on news from home. The community started publishing its first paper, Al-Murshid, in 1912.Their greatest source of pride is the Club Deportivo Palestino professional football side. Established in 1920, it is the world\u2019s only top-division club to sport the Palestinian colours. It has its own ground, at La Cisterna. In January players replaced the number one on their jerseys with an elongated map of pre-1948 Palestine. They won their next three matches. But Chile\u2019s 17,000-strong Jewish community protested against such \u201cpolitical exploitation of soccer\u201d and accused the Palestinians of importing a conflict that they claimed had more to do with religion than territory.The Football Federation of Chile summoned Palestino president Maurice Khamis Massu and banned the jerseys, fining the club $15,000. The players then tattooed the map of Palestine on their forearms. The controversy became news across the world and now the club\u2019s jerseys, particularly number 11, have been selling like hot cakes. \u201cA win by Palestino is a joy for the suffering Palestinian people. The terrible events in Gaza have strengthened our links with Palestine and our roots,\u201d Massu says.He was three when his family arrived in Chile, following the creation of the state of Israel. He is a member of the Belen 2000 foundation, which awards scholarships to children in Palestine and sends doctors to work there.The Palestinian Federation of Chile is made up of several organisations including Palestino. It \u201chas gained in importance in recent years as the conflict over Gaza has deteriorated\u201d, president Mauricio Abu-Gosh says. \u201cOur aim is to raise public awareness of the Palestinian cause and promote the unity of the Palestinian community in Chile.\u201dIt is certainly influential, accounting for 10% of senate seats and 11% of the lower chamber, representing a broad political spectrum reaching from the Communist party to the Conservatives. Palestinians head nine local councils, and there are 26 municipal councillors of Palestinian origin. Deputy interior minister Mahmud Aleuy\u2019s family hails from Palestine.Abu-Gosh acknowledges the existence of a \u201chorizontal lobby\u201d that has scored several \u201cbig successes\u201d. In 2008 Chile welcomed 130 refugees fleeing the conflict in Iraq. The socialist president, Michelle Bachelet, held a reception for them at the Moneda palace, seat of the presidency, on the anniversary of al-Nakba (in May 1948, when Palestinians fled or were expelled from lands for the creation of Israel). Bachelet did not attend the ceremony at the Israeli embassy celebrating the creation of Israel. In 2011, the then conservative president, Sebasti\u00e1n Pi\u00f1era, visited Palestine and endorsed its claim to statehood.In August, as Israel resumed military operations against Gaza, Bachelet, re-elected in March, recalled the Chilean ambassador to Tel Aviv. Thousands of people demonstrated in Santiago in solidarity with Palestine. The ambassador only resumed his functions once a ceasefire had been arranged. Several neighbouring countries followed suit, the exception being Argentina, home to the largest Jewish community (250,000-strong) in Latin America.Gerardo Gorodischer, leader of the Jewish community in Chile, deplores \u201cthe confusion between Jews and Israel\u201d and the rise of \u201cantisemitism unprecedented in Chile\u201d. He goes so far as to say: \u201cWe are enduring a pogrom, without the Chilean government lifting a finger. The most prosperous people are thinking of moving to the United States.\u201d He claims that the Israeli flag was burned at several pro-Palestine demonstrations. Palestinian leaders maintain this was the work of \u201cradical groups which are not representative of the community\u201d.\u201cI\u2019m a Chilean, a Palestinian and a communist,\u201d says Daniel Jahud, 47, leader of the local council at Recoleta, part of which overlaps with Patronato. He is proud of the fact that Salvador Allende, the socialist president overthrown by General Augusto Pinochet in 1973, should be buried in the district he governs. \u201cLooking back in history the various religious communities co-existed peacefully until the artificial creation of the Israeli state by Europeans,\u201d he says. \u201cThe conflict is not about religion. Relations are poor, not with Jews but with the Zionists who represent the Israeli government in Chile.\u201dIntegration was difficult in Chile. The country was very conservative and treated the Palestinians as second-class immigrants, unlike the British, Germans and French who had won over the aristocracy. But despite cultural differences Palestinians were soon assimilated into the middle classes. Some families now command the biggest fortunes in the country. In the 1930s they built powerful textile industries, the Banco de Cr\u00e9dito e Inversiones and an insurance company. In the early years, in the face of hostility many Palestinians married outside their community and even in the 1970s this pattern was true of over two-thirds of marriages.Another, more upmarket rallying point for the community is the Palestinian Club at Las Condes, a residential neighbourhood. Founded in 2007 its parks and gardens spread over 11 hectares, with palm trees and superb views of the snow-capped peaks of the Andes. It has an Olympic-size swimming pool, tennis courts and football pitches but no oriental architecture. The club house is all timber and glass. Anuar Majluf, the club\u2019s thirtysomething head of communications, says he feels more Chilean than anything else, nevertheless acknowledging that the \u201cGaza conflict has rekindled the Palestinian identity in Chile\u201d. He tempers that view by adding: \u201cWe\u2019re not attempting to import the conflict, rather it is important to us.\u201dThis article appeared in Guardian Weekly, which incorporates material from Le Monde\u2022 This article was amended on 4 December 2014 to amend the size of Chile\u2019s Jewish community from 70,000 to 17,000", "tags": ["Chile", "Gaza", "Israel", "Americas", "Palestinian territories", "Football", "Migration and development", "Global development"], "title": "Chile\u2019s Gaza sympathisers rally behind Palestinian football colours"},{"date": "2014-11-17T15:40:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Supported by the Anglo American Group Foundation, Pro Mujer is an international, women\u2019s development and microfinance NGO. Established in 1990 and focused on alleviating poverty across Latin America, Pro Mujer trailblazes new paths for low-income women in Latin America. The organisation aims to fuel leadership, empower women to transform their lives, and to ignite greater social and economic opportunities for families. This is achieved by providing access to financial services, education and training, and lifesaving health care. To learn more about Pro Mujer\u2019s work and to join the community, click here. More from the Anglo American partner zone:Copy on this page is paid for and provided by Anglo American, sponsor of the social impact hub", "tags": ["anglo american partner zone"], "title": "Pro Mujer: empowering women to succeed in Latin America - video"},{"date": "2015-03-03T13:10:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A volcano in southern Chile has erupted in a series of massive explosions, sending fountains of orange flames thousands of feet into the night sky.An estimated 3,400 people were evacuated from the area around Villarica, including parts of the towns Puc\u00f3n and Conaripe. Chilean authorities issued a red alert and sealed off roads surrounding the volcano, located in a tourist enclave outside the city of Temuco. The president, Michelle Bachelet, announced an emergency visit to the zone. Government planes flew over the crater in an attempt to gather data following the 20-minute pre-dawn eruption. The eruption followed weeks of increased activity in and around the volcano, including small earthquakes.The snow-covered peak has a crater 180 metres across and a pool of lava estimated at 120 metres (400ft) deep. Considered one of Latin America\u2019s most active volcanoes, Villarica has erupted on average once every 10 years. A major eruption in 1971 created a cloud of poisonous gases that killed approximately a dozen people.Authorities are concerned that lava and heat from the latest eruption could melt glaciers and snow on the flanks of the volcano and cause mudslides. The Rio Turbio river was reported to have risen 15ft. Schools were shut in the four districts closest to the volcano. Police patrols to the area were increased to prevent looting. In 2010 Bachelet was widely criticised for her response to an earthquake. The emergency services agency known as the Onemi was reorganised and is now coordinated by a former army general, Ricardo Toro, who for years managed international humanitarian operations in Haiti. If the volcano shows signs of increased activity, Onemi will next organise the evacuation of an estimated 20,000 more people from Puc\u00f3n and the surrounding area.", "tags": ["Volcanoes", "Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Volcano erupts in southern Chile"},{"date": "2015-03-03T13:10:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A volcano in southern Chile has erupted in a series of massive explosions, sending fountains of orange flames thousands of feet into the night sky.An estimated 3,400 people were evacuated from the area around Villarica, including parts of the towns Puc\u00f3n and Conaripe. Chilean authorities issued a red alert and sealed off roads surrounding the volcano, located in a tourist enclave outside the city of Temuco. The president, Michelle Bachelet, announced an emergency visit to the zone. Government planes flew over the crater in an attempt to gather data following the 20-minute pre-dawn eruption. The eruption followed weeks of increased activity in and around the volcano, including small earthquakes.The snow-covered peak has a crater 180 metres across and a pool of lava estimated at 120 metres (400ft) deep. Considered one of Latin America\u2019s most active volcanoes, Villarica has erupted on average once every 10 years. A major eruption in 1971 created a cloud of poisonous gases that killed approximately a dozen people.Authorities are concerned that lava and heat from the latest eruption could melt glaciers and snow on the flanks of the volcano and cause mudslides. The Rio Turbio river was reported to have risen 15ft. Schools were shut in the four districts closest to the volcano. Police patrols to the area were increased to prevent looting. In 2010 Bachelet was widely criticised for her response to an earthquake. The emergency services agency known as the Onemi was reorganised and is now coordinated by a former army general, Ricardo Toro, who for years managed international humanitarian operations in Haiti. If the volcano shows signs of increased activity, Onemi will next organise the evacuation of an estimated 20,000 more people from Puc\u00f3n and the surrounding area.", "tags": ["Volcanoes", "Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Volcano erupts in southern Chile"},{"date": "2015-02-05T06:01:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Midnight in the desert. With a\u00a0group of eight, I am huddled around a telescope 150\u00a0times stronger than the naked eye, staring at the night sky. From a dazzling mass of stars, we zoom in on individual pricks of light: a single star, a double, a nebula, a cluster, even a galaxy. Heading outside and looking up, constellations emerge from the crowded heavens, sketched out to us by a powerful laser.Dark sky reserves have sprouted up everywhere from Northumberland to Namibia. But for the ultimate stargazing experience, the Atacama desert in northern Chile has the clearest night skies on Earth. It is high, dry (one of the driest places in the world) and unpolluted. Several top-level observatories have set up home here, and tourists are hot on their tail. Related: Rock of ages: Chile\u2019s Quezala canyon \u201cAstro-tourism is completely new,\u201d says astronomer Bill Dent, who has worked in Chile for six years. \u201cYou didn\u2019t get it 10 years ago.\u201dAn increasing number of night-time tours cater for this new-found interest, including the one I\u2019m on, run by Tierra\u00a0Atacama and based in the oasis town of San Pedro de Atacama. But for real astronomy buffs, there is a new attraction that is even more exciting. The revolutionary Alma observatory, the world\u2019s largest astronomical project, opens for tours next month. Alma captures star and planet formations billions of light years away, so you are viewing the dawn of the universe. Using an array of 66 antennae that together make up the equivalent of a 10-mile-long telescope, it can uncover details with at least 10 times more resolution than the Hubble space telescope.The drive to Alma HQ, 20 miles north-east of San Pedro, winds past spiky cardon plants and wild donkeys. Soon, the land has a red tinge, pocked with craters and crevasses, and the Liscar volcano smokes on the horizon. It\u2019s as if you\u2019ve arrived on Mars.The public tours will take place at the Operations Support Facility (OSF), at an altitude of 2,900 metres, where a visitors\u2019 centre is being built. Guests will also visit the laboratory and control centre, and the hangar where the antennae are made and repaired. There are always a couple of antennae being worked on, faces upturned to the scorching sun like overgrown Wall-Es. There are plans for an on-site hotel and an Alma museum down in San Pedro.As this is a radio telescope, not an optical one, there is no nighttime stargazing at Alma \u2013 you come here in dazzling daylight to be wowed by the scale, the site and the cutting-edge science. And don\u2019t expect to get up close and personal with the telescope. Visitors won\u2019t ascend to the Chajnantor plateau at 5,000 metres, where most of the antennae are sited \u2013 and for good reason. I\u2019m allowed up, under strict medical supervision, only to be rushed straight back down, wired to an oxygen canister, when the altitude took its toll. (Oxygen saturation levels must be more than 80%; mine plummeted from 96% at 4,000 metres to 68% at 5,000.)Still, there is plenty to see at the OSF, and the views over Chile\u2019s Valley of the Moon are spectacular. Dent is convinced the tours will prove popular.\u00a0\u201cAstronomy is fun for more people than particle physicists,\u201d he says. \u201cEveryone can look up at the sky. It has an immediate appeal, especially for kids.\u201dBack in San Pedro, you can visit the wonderful little Meteorite Museum, housed in two geodesic domes, which conducts stargazing tours. All the meteorites on display were found in the Atacama desert and you can even touch some of the 4\u00bd-billion-year-old rocks. The town is a gateway to many of the desert\u2019s natural attractions. I\u00a0visit the El Tatio geysers, a sunrise spectacle of erupting water, steam and hot volcanic mud, and take a dip in the thermal pools. Then there are the salt flats, the lagoons, Death Valley, the flamingo reserves \u2026San Pedro\u2019s dusty streets may be thronged with tourists, but it is still an appealing, easygoing huaso (cowboy) town: one-storey adobe buildings, a\u00a0leafy main square with an archetypal Andean church; an excellent archaeological museum.Chela Cabur is the best bar (really the only bar, because at all the others you have to order food). It is decorated with football shirts and vintage film posters, and only serves beer; the micheladas (beer with lemon juice and salt) are medicinal on a hot day. Ayllu is a good spot for dinner, slightly off the main drag on Toconao Street. You can sit in the courtyard around a brazier and eat llama a la pobre \u2013 fatty, tender llama meat on the bone, served with chips, fried eggs and onions. For a twist on the Chilean (and Peruvian) national drink, try a rica rica cocktail \u2013 a pisco sour topped with a fragrant desert herb. Related: The Brecon Beacons' Dark Sky Reserve: five ways to see it There are scores of places to stay, from dirt-cheap hostels to seriously luxurious hotels. Hotel Altiplanico is on the deluxe end of the spectrum, but without the sky-high prices. It is designed like a traditional village: my room is an adobe hut with a straw roof, a sunny terrace and an outdoor shower. At night, the grounds are deliberately dimly lit. I don\u2019t need to be armed with a telescope or up a mountain \u2013 I simply sit on my terrace and marvel at the peerless Chilean night sky.\u2022 The trip was provided by Rainbow Tours (020-7666 1260, rainbowtours.co.uk). A tailormade eight-day trip costs from \u00a31,995pp, including two nights\u2019 B&B in Santiago and four in the Atacama desert, return flights from ondon, transfers, tours of El Tatio geyser and Alma. Alma tours are free and can be booked at almaobservatory.org", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Astronomy", "Science"], "title": "Stargazing in Chile: dark skies in the Atacama desert"},{"date": "2015-03-03T13:10:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A volcano in southern Chile has erupted in a series of massive explosions, sending fountains of orange flames thousands of feet into the night sky.An estimated 3,400 people were evacuated from the area around Villarica, including parts of the towns Puc\u00f3n and Conaripe. Chilean authorities issued a red alert and sealed off roads surrounding the volcano, located in a tourist enclave outside the city of Temuco. The president, Michelle Bachelet, announced an emergency visit to the zone. Government planes flew over the crater in an attempt to gather data following the 20-minute pre-dawn eruption. The eruption followed weeks of increased activity in and around the volcano, including small earthquakes.The snow-covered peak has a crater 180 metres across and a pool of lava estimated at 120 metres (400ft) deep. Considered one of Latin America\u2019s most active volcanoes, Villarica has erupted on average once every 10 years. A major eruption in 1971 created a cloud of poisonous gases that killed approximately a dozen people.Authorities are concerned that lava and heat from the latest eruption could melt glaciers and snow on the flanks of the volcano and cause mudslides. The Rio Turbio river was reported to have risen 15ft. Schools were shut in the four districts closest to the volcano. Police patrols to the area were increased to prevent looting. In 2010 Bachelet was widely criticised for her response to an earthquake. The emergency services agency known as the Onemi was reorganised and is now coordinated by a former army general, Ricardo Toro, who for years managed international humanitarian operations in Haiti. If the volcano shows signs of increased activity, Onemi will next organise the evacuation of an estimated 20,000 more people from Puc\u00f3n and the surrounding area.", "tags": ["Volcanoes", "Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Volcano erupts in southern Chile"},{"date": "2015-02-05T06:01:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Midnight in the desert. With a\u00a0group of eight, I am huddled around a telescope 150\u00a0times stronger than the naked eye, staring at the night sky. From a dazzling mass of stars, we zoom in on individual pricks of light: a single star, a double, a nebula, a cluster, even a galaxy. Heading outside and looking up, constellations emerge from the crowded heavens, sketched out to us by a powerful laser.Dark sky reserves have sprouted up everywhere from Northumberland to Namibia. But for the ultimate stargazing experience, the Atacama desert in northern Chile has the clearest night skies on Earth. It is high, dry (one of the driest places in the world) and unpolluted. Several top-level observatories have set up home here, and tourists are hot on their tail. Related: Rock of ages: Chile\u2019s Quezala canyon \u201cAstro-tourism is completely new,\u201d says astronomer Bill Dent, who has worked in Chile for six years. \u201cYou didn\u2019t get it 10 years ago.\u201dAn increasing number of night-time tours cater for this new-found interest, including the one I\u2019m on, run by Tierra\u00a0Atacama and based in the oasis town of San Pedro de Atacama. But for real astronomy buffs, there is a new attraction that is even more exciting. The revolutionary Alma observatory, the world\u2019s largest astronomical project, opens for tours next month. Alma captures star and planet formations billions of light years away, so you are viewing the dawn of the universe. Using an array of 66 antennae that together make up the equivalent of a 10-mile-long telescope, it can uncover details with at least 10 times more resolution than the Hubble space telescope.The drive to Alma HQ, 20 miles north-east of San Pedro, winds past spiky cardon plants and wild donkeys. Soon, the land has a red tinge, pocked with craters and crevasses, and the Liscar volcano smokes on the horizon. It\u2019s as if you\u2019ve arrived on Mars.The public tours will take place at the Operations Support Facility (OSF), at an altitude of 2,900 metres, where a visitors\u2019 centre is being built. Guests will also visit the laboratory and control centre, and the hangar where the antennae are made and repaired. There are always a couple of antennae being worked on, faces upturned to the scorching sun like overgrown Wall-Es. There are plans for an on-site hotel and an Alma museum down in San Pedro.As this is a radio telescope, not an optical one, there is no nighttime stargazing at Alma \u2013 you come here in dazzling daylight to be wowed by the scale, the site and the cutting-edge science. And don\u2019t expect to get up close and personal with the telescope. Visitors won\u2019t ascend to the Chajnantor plateau at 5,000 metres, where most of the antennae are sited \u2013 and for good reason. I\u2019m allowed up, under strict medical supervision, only to be rushed straight back down, wired to an oxygen canister, when the altitude took its toll. (Oxygen saturation levels must be more than 80%; mine plummeted from 96% at 4,000 metres to 68% at 5,000.)Still, there is plenty to see at the OSF, and the views over Chile\u2019s Valley of the Moon are spectacular. Dent is convinced the tours will prove popular.\u00a0\u201cAstronomy is fun for more people than particle physicists,\u201d he says. \u201cEveryone can look up at the sky. It has an immediate appeal, especially for kids.\u201dBack in San Pedro, you can visit the wonderful little Meteorite Museum, housed in two geodesic domes, which conducts stargazing tours. All the meteorites on display were found in the Atacama desert and you can even touch some of the 4\u00bd-billion-year-old rocks. The town is a gateway to many of the desert\u2019s natural attractions. I\u00a0visit the El Tatio geysers, a sunrise spectacle of erupting water, steam and hot volcanic mud, and take a dip in the thermal pools. Then there are the salt flats, the lagoons, Death Valley, the flamingo reserves \u2026San Pedro\u2019s dusty streets may be thronged with tourists, but it is still an appealing, easygoing huaso (cowboy) town: one-storey adobe buildings, a\u00a0leafy main square with an archetypal Andean church; an excellent archaeological museum.Chela Cabur is the best bar (really the only bar, because at all the others you have to order food). It is decorated with football shirts and vintage film posters, and only serves beer; the micheladas (beer with lemon juice and salt) are medicinal on a hot day. Ayllu is a good spot for dinner, slightly off the main drag on Toconao Street. You can sit in the courtyard around a brazier and eat llama a la pobre \u2013 fatty, tender llama meat on the bone, served with chips, fried eggs and onions. For a twist on the Chilean (and Peruvian) national drink, try a rica rica cocktail \u2013 a pisco sour topped with a fragrant desert herb. Related: The Brecon Beacons' Dark Sky Reserve: five ways to see it There are scores of places to stay, from dirt-cheap hostels to seriously luxurious hotels. Hotel Altiplanico is on the deluxe end of the spectrum, but without the sky-high prices. It is designed like a traditional village: my room is an adobe hut with a straw roof, a sunny terrace and an outdoor shower. At night, the grounds are deliberately dimly lit. I don\u2019t need to be armed with a telescope or up a mountain \u2013 I simply sit on my terrace and marvel at the peerless Chilean night sky.\u2022 The trip was provided by Rainbow Tours (020-7666 1260, rainbowtours.co.uk). A tailormade eight-day trip costs from \u00a31,995pp, including two nights\u2019 B&B in Santiago and four in the Atacama desert, return flights from ondon, transfers, tours of El Tatio geyser and Alma. Alma tours are free and can be booked at almaobservatory.org", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Astronomy", "Science"], "title": "Stargazing in Chile: dark skies in the Atacama desert"},{"date": "2015-03-25T03:42:26Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A 25-year-old hospital patient has been arrested in Chile after a surgeon suspected the woman had deliberately induced an abortion.The patient had entered the Carlos Cisterna public hospital on Sunday complaining of severe abdominal pain and vaginal bleeding. She was taken to surgery but when a doctor suspected the involvement of a prescription drug known as Misotrol \u2013 widely used for abortions in Latin America \u2013 he notified Chilean police.Chile is one of only six countries in the world where abortion is illegal under any circumstances \u2013 even rape. The current government has pledged to change this. Related: Chile to reconsider abortion ban The woman remained in medical care and under arrest on Tuesday, according to Patricio Toro, director of the hospital in the northern city of Calama. She was not being named.\u201cThere is a legal norm that indicates a complaint must be filed,\u201d said Jaime Burrows, Chile\u2019s undersecretary of public health. Burrows told Chilean press that the public health ministry had instructed medical professionals to respect patient privacy and prioritise patient-doctor confidentiality over the requirement to notify law enforcement in cases of suspected abortion. Related: Mexican women pay high price for country\u2019s rigid abortion laws | Allyn Gaestel Chilean abortion prohibitions were put in place at the very end of the Pinochet military dictatorship and remain among the most strict in the western hemisphere. Estimates of abortions in Chile range from 15,000 to 200,000 a year, with nearly all taking place in clandestine settings.Public discussion of easing the restrictions has been a legislative priority under the current Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, a paediatrician. Earlier this month Bachelet introduced legislation to permit termination in specific circumstances, including rape and pregnancies in which the life of the mother is at risk. Opinion polls show nearly 70% of people support the reforms, though politicians in the extreme-right UDI and the centrist Christian Democrat party have indicated they will vote against the proposed amendments. Related: Baby born to El Salvador woman denied abortion dies after C-section Then-president Sebastian Pinera caused uproar in 2013 when he praised an 11-year-old rape victim as being \u201cbrave and mature\u201d for her decision to carry the foetus to term. Health professionals widely criticised the concept of an 11-year-old being prepared to give birth and cited the case as a prime example of why Chilean abortion laws needed to be reformed. Anti-abortion activists pushed the possibility of the child giving her own child up for adoption and applauded Pinera\u2019s remarks.With abortion reform being debated in the Chilean congress, both sides have mobilised. On Sunday an estimated 5,000 students and other protesters gathered outside the presidential palace in a show of support \u201cfor the life of the unborn\u201d and to oppose the reform movement.No details emerged on Tuesday of what \u2013 if any \u2013 charges had been filed against the detained woman. While it is rare for a patient in a public hospital to be arrested, for years Chilean police have raided private clinics and health services offices to detain doctors, nurses and midwives.", "tags": ["Abortion", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Health"], "title": "Chile abortion arrest: sick woman is reported to police after going to hospital"},{"date": "2015-03-03T13:10:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A volcano in southern Chile has erupted in a series of massive explosions, sending fountains of orange flames thousands of feet into the night sky.An estimated 3,400 people were evacuated from the area around Villarica, including parts of the towns Puc\u00f3n and Conaripe. Chilean authorities issued a red alert and sealed off roads surrounding the volcano, located in a tourist enclave outside the city of Temuco. The president, Michelle Bachelet, announced an emergency visit to the zone. Government planes flew over the crater in an attempt to gather data following the 20-minute pre-dawn eruption. The eruption followed weeks of increased activity in and around the volcano, including small earthquakes.The snow-covered peak has a crater 180 metres across and a pool of lava estimated at 120 metres (400ft) deep. Considered one of Latin America\u2019s most active volcanoes, Villarica has erupted on average once every 10 years. A major eruption in 1971 created a cloud of poisonous gases that killed approximately a dozen people.Authorities are concerned that lava and heat from the latest eruption could melt glaciers and snow on the flanks of the volcano and cause mudslides. The Rio Turbio river was reported to have risen 15ft. Schools were shut in the four districts closest to the volcano. Police patrols to the area were increased to prevent looting. In 2010 Bachelet was widely criticised for her response to an earthquake. The emergency services agency known as the Onemi was reorganised and is now coordinated by a former army general, Ricardo Toro, who for years managed international humanitarian operations in Haiti. If the volcano shows signs of increased activity, Onemi will next organise the evacuation of an estimated 20,000 more people from Puc\u00f3n and the surrounding area.", "tags": ["Volcanoes", "Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Volcano erupts in southern Chile"},{"date": "2015-02-05T06:01:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Midnight in the desert. With a\u00a0group of eight, I am huddled around a telescope 150\u00a0times stronger than the naked eye, staring at the night sky. From a dazzling mass of stars, we zoom in on individual pricks of light: a single star, a double, a nebula, a cluster, even a galaxy. Heading outside and looking up, constellations emerge from the crowded heavens, sketched out to us by a powerful laser.Dark sky reserves have sprouted up everywhere from Northumberland to Namibia. But for the ultimate stargazing experience, the Atacama desert in northern Chile has the clearest night skies on Earth. It is high, dry (one of the driest places in the world) and unpolluted. Several top-level observatories have set up home here, and tourists are hot on their tail. Related: Rock of ages: Chile\u2019s Quezala canyon \u201cAstro-tourism is completely new,\u201d says astronomer Bill Dent, who has worked in Chile for six years. \u201cYou didn\u2019t get it 10 years ago.\u201dAn increasing number of night-time tours cater for this new-found interest, including the one I\u2019m on, run by Tierra\u00a0Atacama and based in the oasis town of San Pedro de Atacama. But for real astronomy buffs, there is a new attraction that is even more exciting. The revolutionary Alma observatory, the world\u2019s largest astronomical project, opens for tours next month. Alma captures star and planet formations billions of light years away, so you are viewing the dawn of the universe. Using an array of 66 antennae that together make up the equivalent of a 10-mile-long telescope, it can uncover details with at least 10 times more resolution than the Hubble space telescope.The drive to Alma HQ, 20 miles north-east of San Pedro, winds past spiky cardon plants and wild donkeys. Soon, the land has a red tinge, pocked with craters and crevasses, and the Liscar volcano smokes on the horizon. It\u2019s as if you\u2019ve arrived on Mars.The public tours will take place at the Operations Support Facility (OSF), at an altitude of 2,900 metres, where a visitors\u2019 centre is being built. Guests will also visit the laboratory and control centre, and the hangar where the antennae are made and repaired. There are always a couple of antennae being worked on, faces upturned to the scorching sun like overgrown Wall-Es. There are plans for an on-site hotel and an Alma museum down in San Pedro.As this is a radio telescope, not an optical one, there is no nighttime stargazing at Alma \u2013 you come here in dazzling daylight to be wowed by the scale, the site and the cutting-edge science. And don\u2019t expect to get up close and personal with the telescope. Visitors won\u2019t ascend to the Chajnantor plateau at 5,000 metres, where most of the antennae are sited \u2013 and for good reason. I\u2019m allowed up, under strict medical supervision, only to be rushed straight back down, wired to an oxygen canister, when the altitude took its toll. (Oxygen saturation levels must be more than 80%; mine plummeted from 96% at 4,000 metres to 68% at 5,000.)Still, there is plenty to see at the OSF, and the views over Chile\u2019s Valley of the Moon are spectacular. Dent is convinced the tours will prove popular.\u00a0\u201cAstronomy is fun for more people than particle physicists,\u201d he says. \u201cEveryone can look up at the sky. It has an immediate appeal, especially for kids.\u201dBack in San Pedro, you can visit the wonderful little Meteorite Museum, housed in two geodesic domes, which conducts stargazing tours. All the meteorites on display were found in the Atacama desert and you can even touch some of the 4\u00bd-billion-year-old rocks. The town is a gateway to many of the desert\u2019s natural attractions. I\u00a0visit the El Tatio geysers, a sunrise spectacle of erupting water, steam and hot volcanic mud, and take a dip in the thermal pools. Then there are the salt flats, the lagoons, Death Valley, the flamingo reserves \u2026San Pedro\u2019s dusty streets may be thronged with tourists, but it is still an appealing, easygoing huaso (cowboy) town: one-storey adobe buildings, a\u00a0leafy main square with an archetypal Andean church; an excellent archaeological museum.Chela Cabur is the best bar (really the only bar, because at all the others you have to order food). It is decorated with football shirts and vintage film posters, and only serves beer; the micheladas (beer with lemon juice and salt) are medicinal on a hot day. Ayllu is a good spot for dinner, slightly off the main drag on Toconao Street. You can sit in the courtyard around a brazier and eat llama a la pobre \u2013 fatty, tender llama meat on the bone, served with chips, fried eggs and onions. For a twist on the Chilean (and Peruvian) national drink, try a rica rica cocktail \u2013 a pisco sour topped with a fragrant desert herb. Related: The Brecon Beacons' Dark Sky Reserve: five ways to see it There are scores of places to stay, from dirt-cheap hostels to seriously luxurious hotels. Hotel Altiplanico is on the deluxe end of the spectrum, but without the sky-high prices. It is designed like a traditional village: my room is an adobe hut with a straw roof, a sunny terrace and an outdoor shower. At night, the grounds are deliberately dimly lit. I don\u2019t need to be armed with a telescope or up a mountain \u2013 I simply sit on my terrace and marvel at the peerless Chilean night sky.\u2022 The trip was provided by Rainbow Tours (020-7666 1260, rainbowtours.co.uk). A tailormade eight-day trip costs from \u00a31,995pp, including two nights\u2019 B&B in Santiago and four in the Atacama desert, return flights from ondon, transfers, tours of El Tatio geyser and Alma. Alma tours are free and can be booked at almaobservatory.org", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Astronomy", "Science"], "title": "Stargazing in Chile: dark skies in the Atacama desert"},{"date": "2015-03-25T03:42:26Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A 25-year-old hospital patient has been arrested in Chile after a surgeon suspected the woman had deliberately induced an abortion.The patient had entered the Carlos Cisterna public hospital on Sunday complaining of severe abdominal pain and vaginal bleeding. She was taken to surgery but when a doctor suspected the involvement of a prescription drug known as Misotrol \u2013 widely used for abortions in Latin America \u2013 he notified Chilean police.Chile is one of only six countries in the world where abortion is illegal under any circumstances \u2013 even rape. The current government has pledged to change this. Related: Chile to reconsider abortion ban The woman remained in medical care and under arrest on Tuesday, according to Patricio Toro, director of the hospital in the northern city of Calama. She was not being named.\u201cThere is a legal norm that indicates a complaint must be filed,\u201d said Jaime Burrows, Chile\u2019s undersecretary of public health. Burrows told Chilean press that the public health ministry had instructed medical professionals to respect patient privacy and prioritise patient-doctor confidentiality over the requirement to notify law enforcement in cases of suspected abortion. Related: Mexican women pay high price for country\u2019s rigid abortion laws | Allyn Gaestel Chilean abortion prohibitions were put in place at the very end of the Pinochet military dictatorship and remain among the most strict in the western hemisphere. Estimates of abortions in Chile range from 15,000 to 200,000 a year, with nearly all taking place in clandestine settings.Public discussion of easing the restrictions has been a legislative priority under the current Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, a paediatrician. Earlier this month Bachelet introduced legislation to permit termination in specific circumstances, including rape and pregnancies in which the life of the mother is at risk. Opinion polls show nearly 70% of people support the reforms, though politicians in the extreme-right UDI and the centrist Christian Democrat party have indicated they will vote against the proposed amendments. Related: Baby born to El Salvador woman denied abortion dies after C-section Then-president Sebastian Pinera caused uproar in 2013 when he praised an 11-year-old rape victim as being \u201cbrave and mature\u201d for her decision to carry the foetus to term. Health professionals widely criticised the concept of an 11-year-old being prepared to give birth and cited the case as a prime example of why Chilean abortion laws needed to be reformed. Anti-abortion activists pushed the possibility of the child giving her own child up for adoption and applauded Pinera\u2019s remarks.With abortion reform being debated in the Chilean congress, both sides have mobilised. On Sunday an estimated 5,000 students and other protesters gathered outside the presidential palace in a show of support \u201cfor the life of the unborn\u201d and to oppose the reform movement.No details emerged on Tuesday of what \u2013 if any \u2013 charges had been filed against the detained woman. While it is rare for a patient in a public hospital to be arrested, for years Chilean police have raided private clinics and health services offices to detain doctors, nurses and midwives.", "tags": ["Abortion", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Health"], "title": "Chile abortion arrest: sick woman is reported to police after going to hospital"},{"date": "2015-02-23T15:36:56Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A judge in Chile has ordered that the body of poet Pablo Neruda should be returned to his grave for reburial alongside the remains of his third wife, Matilde Urrutia, putting an end to an international investigation into the cause of his death in 1973.For nearly two years, Neruda\u2019s remains have been lying in forensic laboratories in three countries \u2013 and from early this year in a fourth \u2013 in an attempt to determine whether his death may have been accelerated by poisoning.Neruda, who won the Nobel prize for literature in 1971, was being treated for cancer. He had been intending to present eight new books to the world to mark his 70th birthday in 1974, but he died on 23 September 1973, 12 days after Augusto Pinochet\u2019s military coup. All eight books were published posthumously.In 2011, the poet\u2019s former driver, Manuel Araya, told the Mexican magazine Proceso that Neruda, a longtime member of Chile\u2019s Communist party, had been murdered by an injection to his stomach by political enemies as he lay in his hospital bed in the Chilean capital, Santiago. In 2013, a judge ordered the exhumation of Neruda\u2019s body to investigate Araya\u2019s claims.His bones were examined by forensic scientists in Santiago, North Carolina in the US and Murcia, Spain. In November 2013, forensic experts announced that they had found no evidence of poisoning, although the investigation was not formally ended.On 21 January 2015, the Chilean government announced that it was reopening the case. New tests were ordered which, instead of looking for traces of poison, have been examining whether inorganic or heavy metals could have indirectly caused the poet\u2019s death. Further tests were also initiated at a laboratory in Switzerland.Now Mario Carroza, the Chilean judge in charge of the case, has issued new instructions for Neruda\u2019s body to be returned in April to his grave in front of his beloved coastal home at Isla Negra. One of Neruda\u2019s nephews, Rodolfo Reyes, denounced the decision.Reyes, a lawyer, said it was important to exhaust all possible tests on the poet\u2019s body before he is reburied. Reyes remains convinced that the poisoning allegations deserve serious attention.Supporters of this theory point out that on 22 September 1973, the day before his death, Neruda had been offered safe passage out of Chile to Mexico, from where he would have represented a serious political threat to the military junta in Santiago. The poet chose to delay his departure.It has also been pointed out that another political opponent of the regime, former president Eduardo Frei Montalva, died in the same Santiago hospital, the Santa Mar\u00eda Clinic, in 1982 after expressing his opposition to the military dictatorship. Frei\u2019s death was initially attributed to septic shock during a routine operation, but a 2006 investigation proved that he had been assassinated with mustard gas and thallium.Another of Neruda\u2019s nephews, Bernardo Reyes, is delighted that the poet\u2019s remains are returning to his homeland. In a strongly worded statement, Bernardo Reyes declared: \u201cThe time of the loudmouths, mythomaniacs and upstarts is finally coming to an end. Those who crudely made use of a supposed witness to an imaginary murder will have to face the consequences.\u201dMore than four decades after his death, Neruda\u2019s poetry remains as powerful as ever. From early this year, trains on Santiago\u2019s Metro have been emblazoned with text from his celebrated 1924 collection, Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair. A debate is still raging in Chile over whether to rename Santiago Airport after the poet.Adam Feinstein\u2019s biography, Pablo Neruda: A Passion for Life, was re-issued by Bloomsbury in 2013 ", "tags": ["Pablo Neruda", "Poetry", "Books", "Culture", "Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Poet Pablo Neruda to be reburied in Chile following judge's ruling"},{"date": "2015-03-03T13:10:49Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A volcano in southern Chile has erupted in a series of massive explosions, sending fountains of orange flames thousands of feet into the night sky.An estimated 3,400 people were evacuated from the area around Villarica, including parts of the towns Puc\u00f3n and Conaripe. Chilean authorities issued a red alert and sealed off roads surrounding the volcano, located in a tourist enclave outside the city of Temuco. The president, Michelle Bachelet, announced an emergency visit to the zone. Government planes flew over the crater in an attempt to gather data following the 20-minute pre-dawn eruption. The eruption followed weeks of increased activity in and around the volcano, including small earthquakes.The snow-covered peak has a crater 180 metres across and a pool of lava estimated at 120 metres (400ft) deep. Considered one of Latin America\u2019s most active volcanoes, Villarica has erupted on average once every 10 years. A major eruption in 1971 created a cloud of poisonous gases that killed approximately a dozen people.Authorities are concerned that lava and heat from the latest eruption could melt glaciers and snow on the flanks of the volcano and cause mudslides. The Rio Turbio river was reported to have risen 15ft. Schools were shut in the four districts closest to the volcano. Police patrols to the area were increased to prevent looting. In 2010 Bachelet was widely criticised for her response to an earthquake. The emergency services agency known as the Onemi was reorganised and is now coordinated by a former army general, Ricardo Toro, who for years managed international humanitarian operations in Haiti. If the volcano shows signs of increased activity, Onemi will next organise the evacuation of an estimated 20,000 more people from Puc\u00f3n and the surrounding area.", "tags": ["Volcanoes", "Chile", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Volcano erupts in southern Chile"},{"date": "2015-02-05T06:01:07Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Midnight in the desert. With a\u00a0group of eight, I am huddled around a telescope 150\u00a0times stronger than the naked eye, staring at the night sky. From a dazzling mass of stars, we zoom in on individual pricks of light: a single star, a double, a nebula, a cluster, even a galaxy. Heading outside and looking up, constellations emerge from the crowded heavens, sketched out to us by a powerful laser.Dark sky reserves have sprouted up everywhere from Northumberland to Namibia. But for the ultimate stargazing experience, the Atacama desert in northern Chile has the clearest night skies on Earth. It is high, dry (one of the driest places in the world) and unpolluted. Several top-level observatories have set up home here, and tourists are hot on their tail. Related: Rock of ages: Chile\u2019s Quezala canyon \u201cAstro-tourism is completely new,\u201d says astronomer Bill Dent, who has worked in Chile for six years. \u201cYou didn\u2019t get it 10 years ago.\u201dAn increasing number of night-time tours cater for this new-found interest, including the one I\u2019m on, run by Tierra\u00a0Atacama and based in the oasis town of San Pedro de Atacama. But for real astronomy buffs, there is a new attraction that is even more exciting. The revolutionary Alma observatory, the world\u2019s largest astronomical project, opens for tours next month. Alma captures star and planet formations billions of light years away, so you are viewing the dawn of the universe. Using an array of 66 antennae that together make up the equivalent of a 10-mile-long telescope, it can uncover details with at least 10 times more resolution than the Hubble space telescope.The drive to Alma HQ, 20 miles north-east of San Pedro, winds past spiky cardon plants and wild donkeys. Soon, the land has a red tinge, pocked with craters and crevasses, and the Liscar volcano smokes on the horizon. It\u2019s as if you\u2019ve arrived on Mars.The public tours will take place at the Operations Support Facility (OSF), at an altitude of 2,900 metres, where a visitors\u2019 centre is being built. Guests will also visit the laboratory and control centre, and the hangar where the antennae are made and repaired. There are always a couple of antennae being worked on, faces upturned to the scorching sun like overgrown Wall-Es. There are plans for an on-site hotel and an Alma museum down in San Pedro.As this is a radio telescope, not an optical one, there is no nighttime stargazing at Alma \u2013 you come here in dazzling daylight to be wowed by the scale, the site and the cutting-edge science. And don\u2019t expect to get up close and personal with the telescope. Visitors won\u2019t ascend to the Chajnantor plateau at 5,000 metres, where most of the antennae are sited \u2013 and for good reason. I\u2019m allowed up, under strict medical supervision, only to be rushed straight back down, wired to an oxygen canister, when the altitude took its toll. (Oxygen saturation levels must be more than 80%; mine plummeted from 96% at 4,000 metres to 68% at 5,000.)Still, there is plenty to see at the OSF, and the views over Chile\u2019s Valley of the Moon are spectacular. Dent is convinced the tours will prove popular.\u00a0\u201cAstronomy is fun for more people than particle physicists,\u201d he says. \u201cEveryone can look up at the sky. It has an immediate appeal, especially for kids.\u201dBack in San Pedro, you can visit the wonderful little Meteorite Museum, housed in two geodesic domes, which conducts stargazing tours. All the meteorites on display were found in the Atacama desert and you can even touch some of the 4\u00bd-billion-year-old rocks. The town is a gateway to many of the desert\u2019s natural attractions. I\u00a0visit the El Tatio geysers, a sunrise spectacle of erupting water, steam and hot volcanic mud, and take a dip in the thermal pools. Then there are the salt flats, the lagoons, Death Valley, the flamingo reserves \u2026San Pedro\u2019s dusty streets may be thronged with tourists, but it is still an appealing, easygoing huaso (cowboy) town: one-storey adobe buildings, a\u00a0leafy main square with an archetypal Andean church; an excellent archaeological museum.Chela Cabur is the best bar (really the only bar, because at all the others you have to order food). It is decorated with football shirts and vintage film posters, and only serves beer; the micheladas (beer with lemon juice and salt) are medicinal on a hot day. Ayllu is a good spot for dinner, slightly off the main drag on Toconao Street. You can sit in the courtyard around a brazier and eat llama a la pobre \u2013 fatty, tender llama meat on the bone, served with chips, fried eggs and onions. For a twist on the Chilean (and Peruvian) national drink, try a rica rica cocktail \u2013 a pisco sour topped with a fragrant desert herb. Related: The Brecon Beacons' Dark Sky Reserve: five ways to see it There are scores of places to stay, from dirt-cheap hostels to seriously luxurious hotels. Hotel Altiplanico is on the deluxe end of the spectrum, but without the sky-high prices. It is designed like a traditional village: my room is an adobe hut with a straw roof, a sunny terrace and an outdoor shower. At night, the grounds are deliberately dimly lit. I don\u2019t need to be armed with a telescope or up a mountain \u2013 I simply sit on my terrace and marvel at the peerless Chilean night sky.\u2022 The trip was provided by Rainbow Tours (020-7666 1260, rainbowtours.co.uk). A tailormade eight-day trip costs from \u00a31,995pp, including two nights\u2019 B&B in Santiago and four in the Atacama desert, return flights from ondon, transfers, tours of El Tatio geyser and Alma. Alma tours are free and can be booked at almaobservatory.org", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "South America holidays", "Travel", "Astronomy", "Science"], "title": "Stargazing in Chile: dark skies in the Atacama desert"},{"date": "2015-03-25T03:42:26Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A 25-year-old hospital patient has been arrested in Chile after a surgeon suspected the woman had deliberately induced an abortion.The patient had entered the Carlos Cisterna public hospital on Sunday complaining of severe abdominal pain and vaginal bleeding. She was taken to surgery but when a doctor suspected the involvement of a prescription drug known as Misotrol \u2013 widely used for abortions in Latin America \u2013 he notified Chilean police.Chile is one of only six countries in the world where abortion is illegal under any circumstances \u2013 even rape. The current government has pledged to change this. Related: Chile to reconsider abortion ban The woman remained in medical care and under arrest on Tuesday, according to Patricio Toro, director of the hospital in the northern city of Calama. She was not being named.\u201cThere is a legal norm that indicates a complaint must be filed,\u201d said Jaime Burrows, Chile\u2019s undersecretary of public health. Burrows told Chilean press that the public health ministry had instructed medical professionals to respect patient privacy and prioritise patient-doctor confidentiality over the requirement to notify law enforcement in cases of suspected abortion. Related: Mexican women pay high price for country\u2019s rigid abortion laws | Allyn Gaestel Chilean abortion prohibitions were put in place at the very end of the Pinochet military dictatorship and remain among the most strict in the western hemisphere. Estimates of abortions in Chile range from 15,000 to 200,000 a year, with nearly all taking place in clandestine settings.Public discussion of easing the restrictions has been a legislative priority under the current Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, a paediatrician. Earlier this month Bachelet introduced legislation to permit termination in specific circumstances, including rape and pregnancies in which the life of the mother is at risk. Opinion polls show nearly 70% of people support the reforms, though politicians in the extreme-right UDI and the centrist Christian Democrat party have indicated they will vote against the proposed amendments. Related: Baby born to El Salvador woman denied abortion dies after C-section Then-president Sebastian Pinera caused uproar in 2013 when he praised an 11-year-old rape victim as being \u201cbrave and mature\u201d for her decision to carry the foetus to term. Health professionals widely criticised the concept of an 11-year-old being prepared to give birth and cited the case as a prime example of why Chilean abortion laws needed to be reformed. Anti-abortion activists pushed the possibility of the child giving her own child up for adoption and applauded Pinera\u2019s remarks.With abortion reform being debated in the Chilean congress, both sides have mobilised. On Sunday an estimated 5,000 students and other protesters gathered outside the presidential palace in a show of support \u201cfor the life of the unborn\u201d and to oppose the reform movement.No details emerged on Tuesday of what \u2013 if any \u2013 charges had been filed against the detained woman. While it is rare for a patient in a public hospital to be arrested, for years Chilean police have raided private clinics and health services offices to detain doctors, nurses and midwives.", "tags": ["Abortion", "Chile", "Americas", "World news", "Health"], "title": "Chile abortion arrest: sick woman is reported to police after going to hospital"},{"date": "2015-02-23T15:36:56Z", "country": "chile", "content": "A judge in Chile has ordered that the body of poet Pablo Neruda should be returned to his grave for reburial alongside the remains of his third wife, Matilde Urrutia, putting an end to an international investigation into the cause of his death in 1973.For nearly two years, Neruda\u2019s remains have been lying in forensic laboratories in three countries \u2013 and from early this year in a fourth \u2013 in an attempt to determine whether his death may have been accelerated by poisoning.Neruda, who won the Nobel prize for literature in 1971, was being treated for cancer. He had been intending to present eight new books to the world to mark his 70th birthday in 1974, but he died on 23 September 1973, 12 days after Augusto Pinochet\u2019s military coup. All eight books were published posthumously.In 2011, the poet\u2019s former driver, Manuel Araya, told the Mexican magazine Proceso that Neruda, a longtime member of Chile\u2019s Communist party, had been murdered by an injection to his stomach by political enemies as he lay in his hospital bed in the Chilean capital, Santiago. In 2013, a judge ordered the exhumation of Neruda\u2019s body to investigate Araya\u2019s claims.His bones were examined by forensic scientists in Santiago, North Carolina in the US and Murcia, Spain. In November 2013, forensic experts announced that they had found no evidence of poisoning, although the investigation was not formally ended.On 21 January 2015, the Chilean government announced that it was reopening the case. New tests were ordered which, instead of looking for traces of poison, have been examining whether inorganic or heavy metals could have indirectly caused the poet\u2019s death. Further tests were also initiated at a laboratory in Switzerland.Now Mario Carroza, the Chilean judge in charge of the case, has issued new instructions for Neruda\u2019s body to be returned in April to his grave in front of his beloved coastal home at Isla Negra. One of Neruda\u2019s nephews, Rodolfo Reyes, denounced the decision.Reyes, a lawyer, said it was important to exhaust all possible tests on the poet\u2019s body before he is reburied. Reyes remains convinced that the poisoning allegations deserve serious attention.Supporters of this theory point out that on 22 September 1973, the day before his death, Neruda had been offered safe passage out of Chile to Mexico, from where he would have represented a serious political threat to the military junta in Santiago. The poet chose to delay his departure.It has also been pointed out that another political opponent of the regime, former president Eduardo Frei Montalva, died in the same Santiago hospital, the Santa Mar\u00eda Clinic, in 1982 after expressing his opposition to the military dictatorship. Frei\u2019s death was initially attributed to septic shock during a routine operation, but a 2006 investigation proved that he had been assassinated with mustard gas and thallium.Another of Neruda\u2019s nephews, Bernardo Reyes, is delighted that the poet\u2019s remains are returning to his homeland. In a strongly worded statement, Bernardo Reyes declared: \u201cThe time of the loudmouths, mythomaniacs and upstarts is finally coming to an end. Those who crudely made use of a supposed witness to an imaginary murder will have to face the consequences.\u201dMore than four decades after his death, Neruda\u2019s poetry remains as powerful as ever. From early this year, trains on Santiago\u2019s Metro have been emblazoned with text from his celebrated 1924 collection, Twenty Love Poems and a Song of Despair. A debate is still raging in Chile over whether to rename Santiago Airport after the poet.Adam Feinstein\u2019s biography, Pablo Neruda: A Passion for Life, was re-issued by Bloomsbury in 2013 ", "tags": ["Pablo Neruda", "Poetry", "Books", "Culture", "Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Poet Pablo Neruda to be reburied in Chile following judge's ruling"},{"date": "2015-03-01T00:17:17Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile\u2019s president has visited a hospital to meet with a 14-year-old girl who shocked the country by pleading on YouTube for the leader to let doctors euthanise her because she was tired of her struggle with cystic fibrosis.The government quickly said no after the video began spreading on social media on Thursday.A government statement said president Michelle Bachelet talked with Valentina Maureira and her father for more than an hour at the Catholic university hospital in Santiago. Related: Chile's president 'overcome by emotion' after ill girl, 14, makes euthanasia plea Officials did not release any information on what was said. But the government provided photographs of the visit, including one of Valentina taking a selfie with the president, who is also a pediatrician.Valentina grabbed the spotlight after posting on YouTube a video that appeared to have been shot from a hospital bed.\u201cI urgently request to speak to the president because I\u2019m tired of living with this illness,\u201d said the teenager, whose older brother died at the age of six from the same disease. \u201cI want her approval so I can get a shot that will make me sleep forever.\u201dCystic fibrosis damages multiple organs, especially the lungs, by causing recurrent infections that damage tissue. Valentina said she was frustrated by the lack of options and by how the disease had hurt her quality of life.On Thursday, presidential spokesman \u00c1lvaro Elizalde expressed sympathy for Valentina\u2019s plight, but stressed that Chilean law does not allow euthanasia.\u201cIt\u2019s impossible not to be overcome by emotion with the girl\u2019s request; it\u2019s impossible to grant her wish,\u201d Elizalde said.In an interview with the Associated Press on Thursday, the girl\u2019s father, Fredy Maureira, said he supported his daughter\u2019s request, though he added that he \u201ccried through the night\u201d after he first heard about her wish to die.\u201cThis is so tough, but I have to respect her decision because she\u2019s the one who\u2019s suffering this illness,\u201d Maureira said.", "tags": ["Chile", "Health", "World news", "Americas", "YouTube", "Law"], "title": "Chile president visits girl with cystic fibrosis who posted euthanasia video"},{"date": "2015-05-09T05:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Artist Georgia O\u2019Keeffe spent part of her year in New Mexico. Green chile, or chile verde, is either a sauce or stew made with local Hatch peppers. O\u2019Keeffe liked hers with eggs and garlic oil.Serves twoChar 800g green peppers over a flame until black all over, then seal in a sandwich bag until cool. Remove skins, seeds and pith; finely chop the flesh. Finely chop one onion and two cloves of garlic; soften in a tablespoon of olive oil with a pinch of salt. When translucent, stir in a tomato and half a\u00a0green chilli (or to taste), both deseeded and finely chopped; add half a teaspoon each of ground coriander, cumin seeds and oregano, and a tablespoon of flour. Cook\u00a0for two minutes, then add 300ml stock. To\u00a0use as a\u00a0sauce, season; to make a stew, add 400g diced, browned pork shoulder and a little water, cover and simmer for two\u00a0hours, until tender. Serve with coriander and/ or fried eggs.", "tags": ["Breakfast", "Life and style", "Food & drink"], "title": "Breakfast of champions: Georgia O\u2019Keeffe\u2019s chile verde"},{"date": "2015-05-09T05:00:00Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Artist Georgia O\u2019Keeffe spent part of her year in New Mexico. Green chile, or chile verde, is either a sauce or stew made with local Hatch peppers. O\u2019Keeffe liked hers with eggs and garlic oil.Serves twoChar 800g green peppers over a flame until black all over, then seal in a sandwich bag until cool. Remove skins, seeds and pith; finely chop the flesh. Finely chop one onion and two cloves of garlic; soften in a tablespoon of olive oil with a pinch of salt. When translucent, stir in a tomato and half a\u00a0green chilli (or to taste), both deseeded and finely chopped; add half a teaspoon each of ground coriander, cumin seeds and oregano, and a tablespoon of flour. Cook\u00a0for two minutes, then add 300ml stock. To\u00a0use as a\u00a0sauce, season; to make a stew, add 400g diced, browned pork shoulder and a little water, cover and simmer for two\u00a0hours, until tender. Serve with coriander and/ or fried eggs.", "tags": ["Breakfast", "Life and style", "Food & drink"], "title": "Breakfast of champions: Georgia O\u2019Keeffe\u2019s chile verde"},{"date": "2015-05-08T23:33:56Z", "country": "chile", "content": "After sacking her entire cabinet, Chilean President Michelle Bachelet kept the nation guessing on Friday as she considered a new lineup to steer the country out of one of the country\u2019s most dramatic political crises since the 1973 military coup. Related: Chilean president rocked by corruption allegations against family members Ensconcing herself in her hillside home in Santiago, the Socialist party leader has not yet uttered a word to the public about her intentions to deal with a series of corruption scandals that have eroded trust in her son, her ministers, and the entire political system.Bachelet is not implicated in any wrongdoing, but she has been castigated for inaction \u2013 a major factor in the fall of her approval ratings to 29%, their lowest level since she first took power in 2006.That changed dramatically on Thursday, when she told a stunned interviewer on live television that she had just asked all of her ministers to resign and would spend the next 72 hours deciding on a new lineup and direction.Since then, the nation has been on tenterhooks awaiting her decision while commentators have rushed to speculate on the likely makeup of the new cabinet, the reasons for the shakeup and its implications.Nobody disputes this is a huge gamble. While the ruthlessness of the move may strengthen Bachelet\u2019s authority as a no-nonsense leader, it could just as easily leave her in a weaker position. Demoting senior figures in her New Majority coalition puts at risk the parliamentary relationships she depends upon on to pass her centre-left legislative program.But political insiders say action can no longer be avoided. \u201cThe cabinet change is a signal to the entire political class,\u201d said Jos\u00e9 Miguel Insulza, the outgoing head of Organisation of American States and self-declared contender for a ministerial post. \u201cI am convinced that the president still has the support of the majority of Chileans, but certainly she has to win back the confidence and to do this the government has to be much more consistent.\u201dIt is certainly a major shift in style for the former pediatric doctor, who was long seen as the politician most likely to heal the bitter divisions left by the 1973 military coup led by General Augusto Pinochet. When she left office after her first term in 2010, she had the support of 84% of the public.Her second term, however, has been more troubled. The economy has slowed, corruption scandals dominate the news, and the right-wing and business community are fighting back against her policies to redistribute income and strengthen the power of trade unions.\u201cChile is experiencing a crisis of confidence for many reasons,\u201d said Bachelet in comments posted on the presidential website. \u201cI thought it necessary to evaluate multiple things from management to the team that will accompany me in this new cycle.\u201dThis crisis comes amid a scandal that ensnared most of the main political parties with revelations of dubious campaign contributions from mining companies and other large corporations. This should have been a political gift for the president, who has long been seen as a clean politician, but it exploded in the government\u2019s face when Bachelet\u2019s top aides, allies and son were also accused of wrongdoing.Last year, her son Sebasti\u00e1n D\u00e1valos \u2013 who served an official role as a presidential aide \u2013 was accused of influence peddling. He allegedly used the family name to secure a $10m loan for his wife\u2019s company so it could buy a plot of land just before it was rezoned for urban development in a deal that could have earned the couple millions in profits. Although D\u00e1valos denied the accusations, Bachelet\u2019s slow move to have him forced out of government proved a serious miscalculation.  Related: Chile's president Michelle Bachelet asks entire cabinet to resign amid crisis Adding to her woes, interior minister Rodrigo Pe\u00f1ailillo and several close aides were among the latest batch of senior politicians to be implicated in scandals involving the use of fake invoices to pay salaries. Bachelet has at times seemed a spent force. For a brief period, she stopped giving interviews and virtually disappeared from the public eye. There were rumours that she was considering resignation. By taking the initiative again this week, she may, however, have turned attention towards the greater structural problems facing Chile.Frustration at persistent inequality, coupled with antiquated campaign finance laws and creeping corruption have eroded faith in political institutions. In a recent poll, 79% of Chileans said the country needs a new constitution.\u201cThe crisis is not centered on the New Majority, it is situated in the entire political system\u201d, said Hernan Larrain, executive director of the think tank Horizontal. \u201cThere is a denial of reality, there has to be a sincere answer to the reality of campaign finance \u2026 As long as there is no honest admitting of these bad practices, we won\u2019t get out of this rut.\u201dOn the streets of Santiago, there was a mix of surprise and concern at the president\u2019s bold move.For journalist Paula Vera, this is Chile\u2019s most serious political turbulence in decades.\u201cThis is a very broad political crisis, from right to left. It\u2019s not about Bachelet, it\u2019s all the politicians. There is an overall lack of confidence in the institutions,\u201d she said.Antonio Notari, a Bachelet supporter and retired tax officer, said the president had made a fatal mistake by giving her son a role in the government.\u201cShe was Dr Bachelet, always a political outsider, now she got caught up in the larger political system,\u201d he said. \u201cPeople feel let down, but this is a momentary disillusionment. Is she a good president? Yes. If she gets the political support, then she will bounce back.\u201d", "tags": ["Michelle Bachelet", "Chile", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Chile waits as Michelle Bachelet considers new cabinet after scandal"},{"date": "2015-09-17T11:41:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile lifted its tsunami warning on Thursday and Pacific islands experienced only minor waves, hours after a 8.3 magnitude earthquake had led to fears of massive swells. Related: 1 million evacuated as Chile hit by magnitude 8.3 earthquake \u201cThe tsunami warning is lifted for all national territory,\u201d the Chilean government\u2019s national emergency office said in a tweet. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) had issued a threat message saying saying hazardous tsunami waves were forecast for some coasts. \u201cTsunami waves have been observed,\u201d it said in the latests update on Thursday.The PTWC said the first waves were arriving on the eastern town of Rikitea, on Mangareva island in French Polynesia, but they were only 28cm high. It was the early hours of the morning in Rikitea, meaning few people would be on the beaches.Much of the nation\u2019s population lives in low-lying coastal areas at risk of flooding and there were concerns waves could rise to between one and three metres. However, even that is small when compared to the 2011 quake in Japan in which waves reached 14-metres in height above sea level.Tsunami generated by M8.3 #earthquake from central Chile arriving in French Polynesia (Rikitea)In some areas, such as Hawaii, initial fears of a large tsunami were lowered, the PTWC said in a update.\u201cHowever, sea level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells might continue.On Chile\u2019s Easter Island, around 3,500km (2,174 miles) from the mainland, residents received a tsunami alert. One tourist hotel, the Puku Vai, said on Twitter that guests were safe.Our guests have all received information and instructions regarding #tsunami alert. We're in safety zone so your family or friends are safe.The tremor struck off the Chilean coast, about 232km north-west of the capital, Santiago. It hit about 8pm local time (11pm GMT). Seismologists predicted that waves would reach South Pacific islands between nine and 12 hours later. Waves would hit New Zealand, Australia and Japan between 12 and 24 hours after the quake.The Ministry of Civil Defence in New Zealand warned people in the coastal areas of Chatham Islands and the east coast, nearly 10,000km from Chile, to stay out of the water overnight.\u201cExpect unusually strong currents and unpredictable water flows near the shore,\u201d it said.The US National Tsunami Warning Center released a chart of how the earthquake energy might spread across the Pacific. It showed the waves would lose height over the huge expanse of the ocean. Related: Chile earthquake: one million people evacuated after 8.3 magnitude quake \u2013 rolling report On the Chilean mainland, waves of up to 4.5 metres were recorded at Conquimbo and two metres at Tongoy. The country\u2019s president, Michelle Bachelet, said both areas had been declared catastrophe zones and troops would be sent in to deter looting.In the Solomon Islands of the South Pacific, the local meteorological service said: \u201cAt this stage we don\u2019t know if a tsunami has actually been generated.\u201dThe Fiji Times quoted the country\u2019s government as saying the public should be on watch for the first wave to arrive at midnight local time. It advised \u201cno immediate action\u201d.\u201cThe Mineral Resources Department Seismology section has issued a tsunami watch and advisory a short time ago, warning residents in those areas to be on watch and get updates through the media,\u201d it said.A watch means a tsunami is possible, according to Chevy Chevalier, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service in Honolulu. \u201cA watch is for everybody to be aware of it, that it\u2019s a possibility,\u201d he said. \u201cA warning means it\u2019s happening right now or it\u2019s imminent.\u201dEight people have been reported killed in Chile\u2019s largest earthquake since the February 2010 tremor that killed more than 500. About 20 people have been reported injured so far and 1 million people have been evacuated from their homes.The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report ", "tags": ["Tsunamis", "South Pacific", "Vanuatu", "Fiji", "Solomon Islands", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Chile", "Hawaii", "US news", "Australia news", "New Zealand", "Michelle Bachelet", "California", "Americas"], "title": "Tsunami warning lifted after Chile earthquake"},{"date": "2015-09-17T11:41:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile lifted its tsunami warning on Thursday and Pacific islands experienced only minor waves, hours after a 8.3 magnitude earthquake had led to fears of massive swells. Related: 1 million evacuated as Chile hit by magnitude 8.3 earthquake \u201cThe tsunami warning is lifted for all national territory,\u201d the Chilean government\u2019s national emergency office said in a tweet. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) had issued a threat message saying saying hazardous tsunami waves were forecast for some coasts. \u201cTsunami waves have been observed,\u201d it said in the latests update on Thursday.The PTWC said the first waves were arriving on the eastern town of Rikitea, on Mangareva island in French Polynesia, but they were only 28cm high. It was the early hours of the morning in Rikitea, meaning few people would be on the beaches.Much of the nation\u2019s population lives in low-lying coastal areas at risk of flooding and there were concerns waves could rise to between one and three metres. However, even that is small when compared to the 2011 quake in Japan in which waves reached 14-metres in height above sea level.Tsunami generated by M8.3 #earthquake from central Chile arriving in French Polynesia (Rikitea)In some areas, such as Hawaii, initial fears of a large tsunami were lowered, the PTWC said in a update.\u201cHowever, sea level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells might continue.On Chile\u2019s Easter Island, around 3,500km (2,174 miles) from the mainland, residents received a tsunami alert. One tourist hotel, the Puku Vai, said on Twitter that guests were safe.Our guests have all received information and instructions regarding #tsunami alert. We're in safety zone so your family or friends are safe.The tremor struck off the Chilean coast, about 232km north-west of the capital, Santiago. It hit about 8pm local time (11pm GMT). Seismologists predicted that waves would reach South Pacific islands between nine and 12 hours later. Waves would hit New Zealand, Australia and Japan between 12 and 24 hours after the quake.The Ministry of Civil Defence in New Zealand warned people in the coastal areas of Chatham Islands and the east coast, nearly 10,000km from Chile, to stay out of the water overnight.\u201cExpect unusually strong currents and unpredictable water flows near the shore,\u201d it said.The US National Tsunami Warning Center released a chart of how the earthquake energy might spread across the Pacific. It showed the waves would lose height over the huge expanse of the ocean. Related: Chile earthquake: one million people evacuated after 8.3 magnitude quake \u2013 rolling report On the Chilean mainland, waves of up to 4.5 metres were recorded at Conquimbo and two metres at Tongoy. The country\u2019s president, Michelle Bachelet, said both areas had been declared catastrophe zones and troops would be sent in to deter looting.In the Solomon Islands of the South Pacific, the local meteorological service said: \u201cAt this stage we don\u2019t know if a tsunami has actually been generated.\u201dThe Fiji Times quoted the country\u2019s government as saying the public should be on watch for the first wave to arrive at midnight local time. It advised \u201cno immediate action\u201d.\u201cThe Mineral Resources Department Seismology section has issued a tsunami watch and advisory a short time ago, warning residents in those areas to be on watch and get updates through the media,\u201d it said.A watch means a tsunami is possible, according to Chevy Chevalier, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service in Honolulu. \u201cA watch is for everybody to be aware of it, that it\u2019s a possibility,\u201d he said. \u201cA warning means it\u2019s happening right now or it\u2019s imminent.\u201dEight people have been reported killed in Chile\u2019s largest earthquake since the February 2010 tremor that killed more than 500. About 20 people have been reported injured so far and 1 million people have been evacuated from their homes.The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report ", "tags": ["Tsunamis", "South Pacific", "Vanuatu", "Fiji", "Solomon Islands", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Chile", "Hawaii", "US news", "Australia news", "New Zealand", "Michelle Bachelet", "California", "Americas"], "title": "Tsunami warning lifted after Chile earthquake"},{"date": "2015-07-03T12:27:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Santiago has never really had its moment in the spotlight. Overshadowed by flashier neighbours, such as Rio and Buenos Aires, it has traditionally been nothing more than an unavoidable stopover en route to somewhere more exciting: Patagonia, Easter Island, the Atacama desert. But, in recent years, this metropolis of seven million has established itself as a destination in its own right. No longer content to hide beneath the shadow of the Andes, it now has a number of vibrant cultural centres (such as the striking, copper-encased GAM, which specialises in promoting the performing arts and music), glittering skyscrapers, award-winning restaurants and fantastic bars. The latter of these focus on the things Chile does best: wine and pisco, the local brandy with a grassy colour and spicy-sweet taste. Add to the mix a forward-looking music scene, growing interest in high design and superb craft brews from Patagonia and you begin to see why Santiago is a city out to surprise.If Chile is known for one thing around the world it\u2019s wine. When a trip to one of the dozen wineries in the nearby Casablanca valley \u2013 or more than two-dozen wineries in the more famous Colchagua valley two hours south \u2013 doesn\u2019t fit in the schedule, BocaNariz in the trendy Lastarria neighbourhood is the next best thing. Santiago\u2019s newest and finest \u201cvinobar\u201d has the look and feel of a cosy wine library, with a massive wine menu and flights of wine (three samples) themed by region or style. Better still, it has well-trained, English-speaking staff and is one of the only places in town where premium-quality wine is available by the glass (from \u00a34). Scroll the menu for the daily selection of carm\u00e9n\u00e8re, Chile\u2019s signature grape that was, until 20 years ago, thought to be a variety of merlot.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Victorino Lastarria 276, bocanariz.cl. Open Mon-Wed midday-midnight, Thurs-Sat midday-12.30am, Sun 7pm-11pmA Santiago institution, this old-school favourite has three outposts across town that are equally heavy on character, with walls covered with vintage posters and Chilean memorabilia. For the best of the best, head to the original Manuel Montt location where the tables inside are as sought after as the ones on the patio outside (though, if you arrive early on \u201cgringo time\u201d, you won\u2019t need to queue). Liguria is a cross between a restaurant and a pub, and locals and tourists alike come for a traditional dinner (think razor clams doused in parmesan or crab casserole) and stay long into the night to enjoy live music and to chat over a bottle of cabernet sauvignon (from \u00a37.90). Call +562 2235 7914 to book.\u2022 Avenida Providencia 1373, Providencia, liguria.cl. Open Mon-Sat 11am-2amIt\u2019s best not to mention Peruvian pisco in affectionate terms while visiting Chile. Why? Because there is much sour feeling over who made South America\u2019s beloved brandy first (and who, today, distils the finest batch). Get the lowdown at Chipe Libre, a welcome addition to the Lastarria neighbourhood with checkered floors, wooden tables and an expansive garden patio. This self-described \u201crepublic of pisco\u201d not only boasts Chile\u2019s largest pisco menu but also knowledgeable staff eager to share the variations \u2013 and there are many \u2013 between the Peruvian and Chilean brandy. Order a flight of pisco (from \u00a33.45) or a round of pisco sours (from \u00a33.25 each) and decide for yourself which country\u2019s tipple tickles your fancy.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Victorino Lastarria 282, Facebook page. Open Mon-Wed 12.30pm-1am, Thurs-Sat 12.30pm-1.30am, closed SundaysOwned by Chile\u2019s top satirical magazine, The Clinic, and covered in its political cartoons, this infamous bar is where the intelligentsia comes to bicker over beers. It\u2019s also a great introduction to the political landscape, particularly for any left-leaning, socialist-minded, Chile-curious individuals. Bar The Clinic is one of the best places in town to sample some of the fantastic craft brews coming out of Chilean Patagonia, including Austral Calafate and Kunstmann Ar\u00e1ndano (both \u00a32.90). Or, if you prefer wine, the menu has four pages of Chilean varieties within its cheeky, tabloid layout, which mimics the tone of its parent magazine. Unlike most other bars in town, this place is open by 1pm and hopping soon after.\u2022 Monjitas 578, bartheclinic.cl. Open Mon-Wed 1pm-3am, Thurs 1pm-3.30am, Fri 1pm-4.30am, Sun 5pm-4.30amKy is an Asian-themed speakeasy that\u2019s behind a graffiti-tagged wall that you might otherwise mistake for the entrance to an abandoned building. Far from being neglected, however, what you\u2019ll find inside is an opulent funhouse with an eclectic interior design that could easily pass for the set of a Wong Kar-wai film (think 2046). Plush sofas, theatrical curtains and funky lighting from competing chandeliers give the place an aesthetic that serves as the perfect setting for fusion martinis such as Rozameltini (pisco, kaffir lime and fresh blueberry juice, \u00a38) or Mirotini (Grand Marnier, pisco, passion fruit and raspberry juice, \u00a34.80). Call ahead for a table (+562 2777 7245); Ky is no longer the secret it once was.\u2022 Avenida Per\u00fa 631, restobarky.cl. Open Tues-Sat 10pm-2amGin is not a liquor often found on menus in this pisco-loving country, but it\u2019s the raison d\u2019\u00eatre for one of the newest bars in Santiago\u2019s rapidly gentrifying Barrio Italia neighbourhood. Ruca Bar is a popular expat hangout and gin-lover\u2019s paradise, with 10 cocktails honouring the spirit that range in price from \u00a33.80-\u00a35. It\u2019s also notable for its menu of tapas such as Pulpo On The Rocks: octopus saut\u00e9ed in merk\u00e9n (an earthy Chilean spice), draped over charred black potatoes and served on a slate. Be sure to go early on Thursdays when Bombay Sapphire \u201cGin Tonics\u201d (no need to use the \u201cand\u201d here) are just a luca (\u00a31) from 6pm-10pm.\u2022 Condell 868, Providencia, rucabar.com. Open Tues-Thurs 6pm-1am, Fri 6pm-2.30am, Sat 1pm-2.30am, Sun 1pm-7pmTramonto Bar and Terrace tends to attract the upper echelon of Chilean society, thanks to its prime location on Alonso de C\u00f3rdova, Santiago\u2019s mini Madison Avenue. This hotel bar (it belongs to the Noi Vitacura) is the best of a growing number of rooftop options in Santiago and pairs the see-and-be-seen atmosphere of the exclusive Vitacura neighbourhood with stunning Andean views. The best time to go is sunset when you can order a pisco sour (\u00a34) and watch as the towering Andes light up in amber hues. When daylight fades, waiters bring out candles and the poolside terrace takes on a more romantic tone.\u2022 Avenida Nueva Costanera 3736, Vitacura, noihotels.com. Open Mon-Wed 11am-am, Thurs-Sat 11am-2am, Sun 11am-midnightThis audacious new addition to Santiago\u2019s restobar scene boasts \u201ccross-dress Peruvian gastronomy\u201d (aka Asian-Latin fusion) and a design style that can only really be described as Catholic kitsch. Opened in late 2014 by Gino Falcone, one of Chile\u2019s top interior designers, Sarita Colonia is home to a menagerie of religious artefacts such as stained-glass windows, wooden confessionals and a faux cemetery replete with a life-size statue of Sarita Colonia, the patron saint of all \u201cmisfits\u201d. It\u2019s not quite a gay bar \u2013 you\u2019ll find many of those on Bombero Nu\u00f1ez street in the adjacent Bellavista neighbourhood \u2013 but it\u2019s gay-friendly and attracts a mixed crowd. Go early to snag a seat on the rooftop patio for dinner (book on +562 2881 3937) and then stick around for cocktails, such as Hell\u2019s Sour or Coraz\u00f3n de Sarita (both \u00a36)\u2022 Loreto 40, Recoleta, saritacoloniarestoran.cl. Open Mon-Wed 8pm-2am, Thurs-Sat 8pm-4amSantiago has one of the most exciting music scenes on the continent and, with a roster of live acts most nights, the Opera-Catedral bar in the artsy Bellas Artes neighbourhood is the perfect spot for a sonic adventure. A popular cafe by day, this resto-bar kicks into full gear after dark when the lights dim flatteringly low and Chile\u2019s top talent in everything from indie folk to electropop takes to the stage. Piscolas (pisco and Coca-Cola, \u00a33.45) are a band-night favourite, but more adventurous drinkers will enjoy intriguing cocktails, such as De Rosa los Petalos (\u00a33.80), an infusion of pisco, lemon and rose petals, or Espumante Tropical (\u00a33.50), local sparkling wine topped with a maceration of lemon and mint. Above the bar is an atmospheric rooftop terrace. Expect a cover of \u00a37 to enter on Friday and Saturday nights.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Miguel de la Barra Esquina Merced, operacatedral.cl. Open Mon-Thurs 12.30pm-3am, Fri-Sat 12.30pm-5amYou can\u2019t leave Santiago without trying Chile\u2019s most patriotic drink, and what better place to tackle a terremoto than one of the city\u2019s oldest and most beloved pic\u00e1s (dive bars): La Piojera. Typically reserved for Independence Day celebrations, a terremoto is a sort of wine shake that is more dessert than drink with pineapple ice-cream, pipe\u00f1o (a sweet white wine), and fernet (a bitter). Terremoto translates to earthquake in Spanish, and the love-it-or-hate-it mouth-freezer may very well leave you shaking. This ketchup-and-mustard-coloured adobe bar may have sticky tables and the odour of a frat house on a Sunday morning, but trying a terremoto here (for just \u00a32) is something of a rite of passage.\u2022 Aillavill\u00fa 1030, lapiojera.cl. Open Mon-Sat midday-12.30am", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "Bars and clubs", "Food & drink", "South America holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel", "Life and style"], "title": "Top 10 bars in Santiago, Chile"},{"date": "2015-09-17T11:41:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile lifted its tsunami warning on Thursday and Pacific islands experienced only minor waves, hours after a 8.3 magnitude earthquake had led to fears of massive swells. Related: 1 million evacuated as Chile hit by magnitude 8.3 earthquake \u201cThe tsunami warning is lifted for all national territory,\u201d the Chilean government\u2019s national emergency office said in a tweet. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) had issued a threat message saying saying hazardous tsunami waves were forecast for some coasts. \u201cTsunami waves have been observed,\u201d it said in the latests update on Thursday.The PTWC said the first waves were arriving on the eastern town of Rikitea, on Mangareva island in French Polynesia, but they were only 28cm high. It was the early hours of the morning in Rikitea, meaning few people would be on the beaches.Much of the nation\u2019s population lives in low-lying coastal areas at risk of flooding and there were concerns waves could rise to between one and three metres. However, even that is small when compared to the 2011 quake in Japan in which waves reached 14-metres in height above sea level.Tsunami generated by M8.3 #earthquake from central Chile arriving in French Polynesia (Rikitea)In some areas, such as Hawaii, initial fears of a large tsunami were lowered, the PTWC said in a update.\u201cHowever, sea level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells might continue.On Chile\u2019s Easter Island, around 3,500km (2,174 miles) from the mainland, residents received a tsunami alert. One tourist hotel, the Puku Vai, said on Twitter that guests were safe.Our guests have all received information and instructions regarding #tsunami alert. We're in safety zone so your family or friends are safe.The tremor struck off the Chilean coast, about 232km north-west of the capital, Santiago. It hit about 8pm local time (11pm GMT). Seismologists predicted that waves would reach South Pacific islands between nine and 12 hours later. Waves would hit New Zealand, Australia and Japan between 12 and 24 hours after the quake.The Ministry of Civil Defence in New Zealand warned people in the coastal areas of Chatham Islands and the east coast, nearly 10,000km from Chile, to stay out of the water overnight.\u201cExpect unusually strong currents and unpredictable water flows near the shore,\u201d it said.The US National Tsunami Warning Center released a chart of how the earthquake energy might spread across the Pacific. It showed the waves would lose height over the huge expanse of the ocean. Related: Chile earthquake: one million people evacuated after 8.3 magnitude quake \u2013 rolling report On the Chilean mainland, waves of up to 4.5 metres were recorded at Conquimbo and two metres at Tongoy. The country\u2019s president, Michelle Bachelet, said both areas had been declared catastrophe zones and troops would be sent in to deter looting.In the Solomon Islands of the South Pacific, the local meteorological service said: \u201cAt this stage we don\u2019t know if a tsunami has actually been generated.\u201dThe Fiji Times quoted the country\u2019s government as saying the public should be on watch for the first wave to arrive at midnight local time. It advised \u201cno immediate action\u201d.\u201cThe Mineral Resources Department Seismology section has issued a tsunami watch and advisory a short time ago, warning residents in those areas to be on watch and get updates through the media,\u201d it said.A watch means a tsunami is possible, according to Chevy Chevalier, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service in Honolulu. \u201cA watch is for everybody to be aware of it, that it\u2019s a possibility,\u201d he said. \u201cA warning means it\u2019s happening right now or it\u2019s imminent.\u201dEight people have been reported killed in Chile\u2019s largest earthquake since the February 2010 tremor that killed more than 500. About 20 people have been reported injured so far and 1 million people have been evacuated from their homes.The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report ", "tags": ["Tsunamis", "South Pacific", "Vanuatu", "Fiji", "Solomon Islands", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Chile", "Hawaii", "US news", "Australia news", "New Zealand", "Michelle Bachelet", "California", "Americas"], "title": "Tsunami warning lifted after Chile earthquake"},{"date": "2015-07-03T12:27:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Santiago has never really had its moment in the spotlight. Overshadowed by flashier neighbours, such as Rio and Buenos Aires, it has traditionally been nothing more than an unavoidable stopover en route to somewhere more exciting: Patagonia, Easter Island, the Atacama desert. But, in recent years, this metropolis of seven million has established itself as a destination in its own right. No longer content to hide beneath the shadow of the Andes, it now has a number of vibrant cultural centres (such as the striking, copper-encased GAM, which specialises in promoting the performing arts and music), glittering skyscrapers, award-winning restaurants and fantastic bars. The latter of these focus on the things Chile does best: wine and pisco, the local brandy with a grassy colour and spicy-sweet taste. Add to the mix a forward-looking music scene, growing interest in high design and superb craft brews from Patagonia and you begin to see why Santiago is a city out to surprise.If Chile is known for one thing around the world it\u2019s wine. When a trip to one of the dozen wineries in the nearby Casablanca valley \u2013 or more than two-dozen wineries in the more famous Colchagua valley two hours south \u2013 doesn\u2019t fit in the schedule, BocaNariz in the trendy Lastarria neighbourhood is the next best thing. Santiago\u2019s newest and finest \u201cvinobar\u201d has the look and feel of a cosy wine library, with a massive wine menu and flights of wine (three samples) themed by region or style. Better still, it has well-trained, English-speaking staff and is one of the only places in town where premium-quality wine is available by the glass (from \u00a34). Scroll the menu for the daily selection of carm\u00e9n\u00e8re, Chile\u2019s signature grape that was, until 20 years ago, thought to be a variety of merlot.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Victorino Lastarria 276, bocanariz.cl. Open Mon-Wed midday-midnight, Thurs-Sat midday-12.30am, Sun 7pm-11pmA Santiago institution, this old-school favourite has three outposts across town that are equally heavy on character, with walls covered with vintage posters and Chilean memorabilia. For the best of the best, head to the original Manuel Montt location where the tables inside are as sought after as the ones on the patio outside (though, if you arrive early on \u201cgringo time\u201d, you won\u2019t need to queue). Liguria is a cross between a restaurant and a pub, and locals and tourists alike come for a traditional dinner (think razor clams doused in parmesan or crab casserole) and stay long into the night to enjoy live music and to chat over a bottle of cabernet sauvignon (from \u00a37.90). Call +562 2235 7914 to book.\u2022 Avenida Providencia 1373, Providencia, liguria.cl. Open Mon-Sat 11am-2amIt\u2019s best not to mention Peruvian pisco in affectionate terms while visiting Chile. Why? Because there is much sour feeling over who made South America\u2019s beloved brandy first (and who, today, distils the finest batch). Get the lowdown at Chipe Libre, a welcome addition to the Lastarria neighbourhood with checkered floors, wooden tables and an expansive garden patio. This self-described \u201crepublic of pisco\u201d not only boasts Chile\u2019s largest pisco menu but also knowledgeable staff eager to share the variations \u2013 and there are many \u2013 between the Peruvian and Chilean brandy. Order a flight of pisco (from \u00a33.45) or a round of pisco sours (from \u00a33.25 each) and decide for yourself which country\u2019s tipple tickles your fancy.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Victorino Lastarria 282, Facebook page. Open Mon-Wed 12.30pm-1am, Thurs-Sat 12.30pm-1.30am, closed SundaysOwned by Chile\u2019s top satirical magazine, The Clinic, and covered in its political cartoons, this infamous bar is where the intelligentsia comes to bicker over beers. It\u2019s also a great introduction to the political landscape, particularly for any left-leaning, socialist-minded, Chile-curious individuals. Bar The Clinic is one of the best places in town to sample some of the fantastic craft brews coming out of Chilean Patagonia, including Austral Calafate and Kunstmann Ar\u00e1ndano (both \u00a32.90). Or, if you prefer wine, the menu has four pages of Chilean varieties within its cheeky, tabloid layout, which mimics the tone of its parent magazine. Unlike most other bars in town, this place is open by 1pm and hopping soon after.\u2022 Monjitas 578, bartheclinic.cl. Open Mon-Wed 1pm-3am, Thurs 1pm-3.30am, Fri 1pm-4.30am, Sun 5pm-4.30amKy is an Asian-themed speakeasy that\u2019s behind a graffiti-tagged wall that you might otherwise mistake for the entrance to an abandoned building. Far from being neglected, however, what you\u2019ll find inside is an opulent funhouse with an eclectic interior design that could easily pass for the set of a Wong Kar-wai film (think 2046). Plush sofas, theatrical curtains and funky lighting from competing chandeliers give the place an aesthetic that serves as the perfect setting for fusion martinis such as Rozameltini (pisco, kaffir lime and fresh blueberry juice, \u00a38) or Mirotini (Grand Marnier, pisco, passion fruit and raspberry juice, \u00a34.80). Call ahead for a table (+562 2777 7245); Ky is no longer the secret it once was.\u2022 Avenida Per\u00fa 631, restobarky.cl. Open Tues-Sat 10pm-2amGin is not a liquor often found on menus in this pisco-loving country, but it\u2019s the raison d\u2019\u00eatre for one of the newest bars in Santiago\u2019s rapidly gentrifying Barrio Italia neighbourhood. Ruca Bar is a popular expat hangout and gin-lover\u2019s paradise, with 10 cocktails honouring the spirit that range in price from \u00a33.80-\u00a35. It\u2019s also notable for its menu of tapas such as Pulpo On The Rocks: octopus saut\u00e9ed in merk\u00e9n (an earthy Chilean spice), draped over charred black potatoes and served on a slate. Be sure to go early on Thursdays when Bombay Sapphire \u201cGin Tonics\u201d (no need to use the \u201cand\u201d here) are just a luca (\u00a31) from 6pm-10pm.\u2022 Condell 868, Providencia, rucabar.com. Open Tues-Thurs 6pm-1am, Fri 6pm-2.30am, Sat 1pm-2.30am, Sun 1pm-7pmTramonto Bar and Terrace tends to attract the upper echelon of Chilean society, thanks to its prime location on Alonso de C\u00f3rdova, Santiago\u2019s mini Madison Avenue. This hotel bar (it belongs to the Noi Vitacura) is the best of a growing number of rooftop options in Santiago and pairs the see-and-be-seen atmosphere of the exclusive Vitacura neighbourhood with stunning Andean views. The best time to go is sunset when you can order a pisco sour (\u00a34) and watch as the towering Andes light up in amber hues. When daylight fades, waiters bring out candles and the poolside terrace takes on a more romantic tone.\u2022 Avenida Nueva Costanera 3736, Vitacura, noihotels.com. Open Mon-Wed 11am-am, Thurs-Sat 11am-2am, Sun 11am-midnightThis audacious new addition to Santiago\u2019s restobar scene boasts \u201ccross-dress Peruvian gastronomy\u201d (aka Asian-Latin fusion) and a design style that can only really be described as Catholic kitsch. Opened in late 2014 by Gino Falcone, one of Chile\u2019s top interior designers, Sarita Colonia is home to a menagerie of religious artefacts such as stained-glass windows, wooden confessionals and a faux cemetery replete with a life-size statue of Sarita Colonia, the patron saint of all \u201cmisfits\u201d. It\u2019s not quite a gay bar \u2013 you\u2019ll find many of those on Bombero Nu\u00f1ez street in the adjacent Bellavista neighbourhood \u2013 but it\u2019s gay-friendly and attracts a mixed crowd. Go early to snag a seat on the rooftop patio for dinner (book on +562 2881 3937) and then stick around for cocktails, such as Hell\u2019s Sour or Coraz\u00f3n de Sarita (both \u00a36)\u2022 Loreto 40, Recoleta, saritacoloniarestoran.cl. Open Mon-Wed 8pm-2am, Thurs-Sat 8pm-4amSantiago has one of the most exciting music scenes on the continent and, with a roster of live acts most nights, the Opera-Catedral bar in the artsy Bellas Artes neighbourhood is the perfect spot for a sonic adventure. A popular cafe by day, this resto-bar kicks into full gear after dark when the lights dim flatteringly low and Chile\u2019s top talent in everything from indie folk to electropop takes to the stage. Piscolas (pisco and Coca-Cola, \u00a33.45) are a band-night favourite, but more adventurous drinkers will enjoy intriguing cocktails, such as De Rosa los Petalos (\u00a33.80), an infusion of pisco, lemon and rose petals, or Espumante Tropical (\u00a33.50), local sparkling wine topped with a maceration of lemon and mint. Above the bar is an atmospheric rooftop terrace. Expect a cover of \u00a37 to enter on Friday and Saturday nights.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Miguel de la Barra Esquina Merced, operacatedral.cl. Open Mon-Thurs 12.30pm-3am, Fri-Sat 12.30pm-5amYou can\u2019t leave Santiago without trying Chile\u2019s most patriotic drink, and what better place to tackle a terremoto than one of the city\u2019s oldest and most beloved pic\u00e1s (dive bars): La Piojera. Typically reserved for Independence Day celebrations, a terremoto is a sort of wine shake that is more dessert than drink with pineapple ice-cream, pipe\u00f1o (a sweet white wine), and fernet (a bitter). Terremoto translates to earthquake in Spanish, and the love-it-or-hate-it mouth-freezer may very well leave you shaking. This ketchup-and-mustard-coloured adobe bar may have sticky tables and the odour of a frat house on a Sunday morning, but trying a terremoto here (for just \u00a32) is something of a rite of passage.\u2022 Aillavill\u00fa 1030, lapiojera.cl. Open Mon-Sat midday-12.30am", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "Bars and clubs", "Food & drink", "South America holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel", "Life and style"], "title": "Top 10 bars in Santiago, Chile"},{"date": "2015-09-17T17:12:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile has been shaken by dozens of aftershocks after a powerful earthquake toppled buildings, killed at least 11 people and forced the evacuation of more than 1 million people.The magnitude 8.3 tremor on Wednesday night lasted for three minutes, and caused a series of tsunami surges \u2013 some as high as 4.5 metres (15ft) \u2013 which swamped towns along the Chilean coast. Tsunami warnings were triggered in Japan, New Zealand and Russia, as well as the US states of California and Hawaii. After a night in which at least 40 aftershocks hit the region \u2013 including one at magnitude 7 and seven at magnitude 6 or above \u2013 daylight revealed scenes of wreckage and ruin for hundreds of miles along the Chilean coastline.In the port city of Coquimbo fishing boats were tossed across streets, roads were blocked by rockslides and streets were filled with piles of devastated adobe houses.In Illapel, near the epicentre, residents appeared dazed at daybreak as they wandered the streets, searching for loved ones and awaiting the restoration of electricity and other basic services. Army troops were being rushed to the scene.Many of the townspeople had been forced to sleep on the ground outside their destroyed homes. \u201cI thought it was the end of the world and we were going to die,\u201d Manuel Moya told the Associated Press, as he stood next to the ruins of his home. \u201cEverything is a mess. It was a disaster, a total loss. Bottles and glasses shattered and the pipes in the bathroom and kitchen burst,\u201d restaurant owner Melisa Pi\u00f1ones told Reuters.Tongoy, a fishing village popular with tourists, was also hit hard by the first tsunami waves, which made landfall just 25 minutes after the initial earthquake. Several seaside shops and restaurants were completely destroyed.In the popular tourist town of Conc\u00f3n, dozens of coastal restaurants were flooded and nearby surf schools destroyed by the series of waves that flooded distinct areas of the coast. Makeshift altars and lit candles marked the spots where residents had died.The Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, began a tour of damaged areas in the town of La Serena, near Coquimbo. She had previously cancelled her participation in many of the nation\u2019s independence day celebrations scheduled for Friday.\u201cWe\u2019re going to have go on the ground to see what the damages are and see where help is needed,\u201d Bachelet said.The earthquake came at the beginning of a four-day national holiday and hundreds of thousands of Chileans had already travelled to the coast. But mass evacuations were largely orderly, as Chile\u2019s national emergency office has run repeated practice evacuations following the massive 8.8 earthquake in February 2010. That quake and the ensuing tsunami killed more than 500 people, destroyed 220,000 homes and washed away docks, riverfronts and seaside resorts.On Wednesday night, panic erupted in Coquimbo where an estimated 40,000 revelers were gathered to inaugurate the nation\u2019s largest independence day celebration late on Wednesday evening. The quake hit just as mayor Cornelio Andrade was on the podium and set to cut the ribbon. \u201cIt felt like the earth was splitting open,\u201d Andrade told reporters. \u201cThe women began to scream the names of their children who were playing. It was a stampede, everyone was trying to get out.\u201dChile\u2019s ministry of the interior and public security said 20 people have been injured, but phone networks remain down in parts of the country so the full extent of damage and injury is not yet known.Schools have been closed in several regions. The interior ministry\u2019s national office of emergency has urged people not to return to their homes until they are told it is safe to do so.The quake also sparked fears tsunamis could surge across the Pacific Ocean, with countries as far away Japan, New Zealand, Russia and the US states of California and Hawaii issuing warnings.A watch was issued for the California coast: \u201cA tsunami capable of producing strong currents or waves dangerous to persons in or very near the water is expected. The first wave may not be the largest.\u201dA tsunami advisory for Hawaii said a \u201cmajor tsunami\u201d was not expected but it warned of sea-level changes and strong currents.The New Zealand minister for civil defence, Nikki Kaye, urged east coast residents in the path of any potential tsunami to stay out of the the ocean, out of boats and off beaches.The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said waves reaching one to three metres above the tide level were possible in French Polynesia, and that waves reaching 0.3 to one metre above tide level were possible for some coasts of New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii, Mexico, Ecuador, Peru, Japan, New Caledonia, Samoa, Russia and other Pacific territories.The PTWC later downgraded its warnings for some areas, including Hawaii. \u201cHowever, sea-level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells arriving between five minutes and one hour could be ongoing.The power of the initial earthquake was such that it could be felt across swaths of South America.In the Chilean capital, Santiago, more than 230km (140 miles) from the epicentre of the quake, buildings swayed and thousands fled their homes to take refuge in the streets.Car alarms were set off in Buenos Aires \u2013 more than 1,100km (680 miles) away on the Atlantic side of the continent.Public buildings, including the campus of the University of Buenos Aires, were evacuated. High-rises in the neighbourhoods of Belgrano and Palermo swayed so much that many ran out into the streets. Other Argentinian cities including Rosario and Mendoza reported mass evacuations.Chile is one of the world\u2019s most earthquake-prone countries. Just off the coast, the Nazca tectonic plate plunges beneath the South American plate, pushing the towering Andes cordillera to ever-higher altitudes.", "tags": ["Chile", "Earthquakes", "World news", "Americas", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Aftershocks rattle Chile after earthquake as death toll rises"},{"date": "2015-09-17T11:41:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile lifted its tsunami warning on Thursday and Pacific islands experienced only minor waves, hours after a 8.3 magnitude earthquake had led to fears of massive swells. Related: 1 million evacuated as Chile hit by magnitude 8.3 earthquake \u201cThe tsunami warning is lifted for all national territory,\u201d the Chilean government\u2019s national emergency office said in a tweet. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) had issued a threat message saying saying hazardous tsunami waves were forecast for some coasts. \u201cTsunami waves have been observed,\u201d it said in the latests update on Thursday.The PTWC said the first waves were arriving on the eastern town of Rikitea, on Mangareva island in French Polynesia, but they were only 28cm high. It was the early hours of the morning in Rikitea, meaning few people would be on the beaches.Much of the nation\u2019s population lives in low-lying coastal areas at risk of flooding and there were concerns waves could rise to between one and three metres. However, even that is small when compared to the 2011 quake in Japan in which waves reached 14-metres in height above sea level.Tsunami generated by M8.3 #earthquake from central Chile arriving in French Polynesia (Rikitea)In some areas, such as Hawaii, initial fears of a large tsunami were lowered, the PTWC said in a update.\u201cHowever, sea level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells might continue.On Chile\u2019s Easter Island, around 3,500km (2,174 miles) from the mainland, residents received a tsunami alert. One tourist hotel, the Puku Vai, said on Twitter that guests were safe.Our guests have all received information and instructions regarding #tsunami alert. We're in safety zone so your family or friends are safe.The tremor struck off the Chilean coast, about 232km north-west of the capital, Santiago. It hit about 8pm local time (11pm GMT). Seismologists predicted that waves would reach South Pacific islands between nine and 12 hours later. Waves would hit New Zealand, Australia and Japan between 12 and 24 hours after the quake.The Ministry of Civil Defence in New Zealand warned people in the coastal areas of Chatham Islands and the east coast, nearly 10,000km from Chile, to stay out of the water overnight.\u201cExpect unusually strong currents and unpredictable water flows near the shore,\u201d it said.The US National Tsunami Warning Center released a chart of how the earthquake energy might spread across the Pacific. It showed the waves would lose height over the huge expanse of the ocean. Related: Chile earthquake: one million people evacuated after 8.3 magnitude quake \u2013 rolling report On the Chilean mainland, waves of up to 4.5 metres were recorded at Conquimbo and two metres at Tongoy. The country\u2019s president, Michelle Bachelet, said both areas had been declared catastrophe zones and troops would be sent in to deter looting.In the Solomon Islands of the South Pacific, the local meteorological service said: \u201cAt this stage we don\u2019t know if a tsunami has actually been generated.\u201dThe Fiji Times quoted the country\u2019s government as saying the public should be on watch for the first wave to arrive at midnight local time. It advised \u201cno immediate action\u201d.\u201cThe Mineral Resources Department Seismology section has issued a tsunami watch and advisory a short time ago, warning residents in those areas to be on watch and get updates through the media,\u201d it said.A watch means a tsunami is possible, according to Chevy Chevalier, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service in Honolulu. \u201cA watch is for everybody to be aware of it, that it\u2019s a possibility,\u201d he said. \u201cA warning means it\u2019s happening right now or it\u2019s imminent.\u201dEight people have been reported killed in Chile\u2019s largest earthquake since the February 2010 tremor that killed more than 500. About 20 people have been reported injured so far and 1 million people have been evacuated from their homes.The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report ", "tags": ["Tsunamis", "South Pacific", "Vanuatu", "Fiji", "Solomon Islands", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Chile", "Hawaii", "US news", "Australia news", "New Zealand", "Michelle Bachelet", "California", "Americas"], "title": "Tsunami warning lifted after Chile earthquake"},{"date": "2015-07-03T12:27:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Santiago has never really had its moment in the spotlight. Overshadowed by flashier neighbours, such as Rio and Buenos Aires, it has traditionally been nothing more than an unavoidable stopover en route to somewhere more exciting: Patagonia, Easter Island, the Atacama desert. But, in recent years, this metropolis of seven million has established itself as a destination in its own right. No longer content to hide beneath the shadow of the Andes, it now has a number of vibrant cultural centres (such as the striking, copper-encased GAM, which specialises in promoting the performing arts and music), glittering skyscrapers, award-winning restaurants and fantastic bars. The latter of these focus on the things Chile does best: wine and pisco, the local brandy with a grassy colour and spicy-sweet taste. Add to the mix a forward-looking music scene, growing interest in high design and superb craft brews from Patagonia and you begin to see why Santiago is a city out to surprise.If Chile is known for one thing around the world it\u2019s wine. When a trip to one of the dozen wineries in the nearby Casablanca valley \u2013 or more than two-dozen wineries in the more famous Colchagua valley two hours south \u2013 doesn\u2019t fit in the schedule, BocaNariz in the trendy Lastarria neighbourhood is the next best thing. Santiago\u2019s newest and finest \u201cvinobar\u201d has the look and feel of a cosy wine library, with a massive wine menu and flights of wine (three samples) themed by region or style. Better still, it has well-trained, English-speaking staff and is one of the only places in town where premium-quality wine is available by the glass (from \u00a34). Scroll the menu for the daily selection of carm\u00e9n\u00e8re, Chile\u2019s signature grape that was, until 20 years ago, thought to be a variety of merlot.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Victorino Lastarria 276, bocanariz.cl. Open Mon-Wed midday-midnight, Thurs-Sat midday-12.30am, Sun 7pm-11pmA Santiago institution, this old-school favourite has three outposts across town that are equally heavy on character, with walls covered with vintage posters and Chilean memorabilia. For the best of the best, head to the original Manuel Montt location where the tables inside are as sought after as the ones on the patio outside (though, if you arrive early on \u201cgringo time\u201d, you won\u2019t need to queue). Liguria is a cross between a restaurant and a pub, and locals and tourists alike come for a traditional dinner (think razor clams doused in parmesan or crab casserole) and stay long into the night to enjoy live music and to chat over a bottle of cabernet sauvignon (from \u00a37.90). Call +562 2235 7914 to book.\u2022 Avenida Providencia 1373, Providencia, liguria.cl. Open Mon-Sat 11am-2amIt\u2019s best not to mention Peruvian pisco in affectionate terms while visiting Chile. Why? Because there is much sour feeling over who made South America\u2019s beloved brandy first (and who, today, distils the finest batch). Get the lowdown at Chipe Libre, a welcome addition to the Lastarria neighbourhood with checkered floors, wooden tables and an expansive garden patio. This self-described \u201crepublic of pisco\u201d not only boasts Chile\u2019s largest pisco menu but also knowledgeable staff eager to share the variations \u2013 and there are many \u2013 between the Peruvian and Chilean brandy. Order a flight of pisco (from \u00a33.45) or a round of pisco sours (from \u00a33.25 each) and decide for yourself which country\u2019s tipple tickles your fancy.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Victorino Lastarria 282, Facebook page. Open Mon-Wed 12.30pm-1am, Thurs-Sat 12.30pm-1.30am, closed SundaysOwned by Chile\u2019s top satirical magazine, The Clinic, and covered in its political cartoons, this infamous bar is where the intelligentsia comes to bicker over beers. It\u2019s also a great introduction to the political landscape, particularly for any left-leaning, socialist-minded, Chile-curious individuals. Bar The Clinic is one of the best places in town to sample some of the fantastic craft brews coming out of Chilean Patagonia, including Austral Calafate and Kunstmann Ar\u00e1ndano (both \u00a32.90). Or, if you prefer wine, the menu has four pages of Chilean varieties within its cheeky, tabloid layout, which mimics the tone of its parent magazine. Unlike most other bars in town, this place is open by 1pm and hopping soon after.\u2022 Monjitas 578, bartheclinic.cl. Open Mon-Wed 1pm-3am, Thurs 1pm-3.30am, Fri 1pm-4.30am, Sun 5pm-4.30amKy is an Asian-themed speakeasy that\u2019s behind a graffiti-tagged wall that you might otherwise mistake for the entrance to an abandoned building. Far from being neglected, however, what you\u2019ll find inside is an opulent funhouse with an eclectic interior design that could easily pass for the set of a Wong Kar-wai film (think 2046). Plush sofas, theatrical curtains and funky lighting from competing chandeliers give the place an aesthetic that serves as the perfect setting for fusion martinis such as Rozameltini (pisco, kaffir lime and fresh blueberry juice, \u00a38) or Mirotini (Grand Marnier, pisco, passion fruit and raspberry juice, \u00a34.80). Call ahead for a table (+562 2777 7245); Ky is no longer the secret it once was.\u2022 Avenida Per\u00fa 631, restobarky.cl. Open Tues-Sat 10pm-2amGin is not a liquor often found on menus in this pisco-loving country, but it\u2019s the raison d\u2019\u00eatre for one of the newest bars in Santiago\u2019s rapidly gentrifying Barrio Italia neighbourhood. Ruca Bar is a popular expat hangout and gin-lover\u2019s paradise, with 10 cocktails honouring the spirit that range in price from \u00a33.80-\u00a35. It\u2019s also notable for its menu of tapas such as Pulpo On The Rocks: octopus saut\u00e9ed in merk\u00e9n (an earthy Chilean spice), draped over charred black potatoes and served on a slate. Be sure to go early on Thursdays when Bombay Sapphire \u201cGin Tonics\u201d (no need to use the \u201cand\u201d here) are just a luca (\u00a31) from 6pm-10pm.\u2022 Condell 868, Providencia, rucabar.com. Open Tues-Thurs 6pm-1am, Fri 6pm-2.30am, Sat 1pm-2.30am, Sun 1pm-7pmTramonto Bar and Terrace tends to attract the upper echelon of Chilean society, thanks to its prime location on Alonso de C\u00f3rdova, Santiago\u2019s mini Madison Avenue. This hotel bar (it belongs to the Noi Vitacura) is the best of a growing number of rooftop options in Santiago and pairs the see-and-be-seen atmosphere of the exclusive Vitacura neighbourhood with stunning Andean views. The best time to go is sunset when you can order a pisco sour (\u00a34) and watch as the towering Andes light up in amber hues. When daylight fades, waiters bring out candles and the poolside terrace takes on a more romantic tone.\u2022 Avenida Nueva Costanera 3736, Vitacura, noihotels.com. Open Mon-Wed 11am-am, Thurs-Sat 11am-2am, Sun 11am-midnightThis audacious new addition to Santiago\u2019s restobar scene boasts \u201ccross-dress Peruvian gastronomy\u201d (aka Asian-Latin fusion) and a design style that can only really be described as Catholic kitsch. Opened in late 2014 by Gino Falcone, one of Chile\u2019s top interior designers, Sarita Colonia is home to a menagerie of religious artefacts such as stained-glass windows, wooden confessionals and a faux cemetery replete with a life-size statue of Sarita Colonia, the patron saint of all \u201cmisfits\u201d. It\u2019s not quite a gay bar \u2013 you\u2019ll find many of those on Bombero Nu\u00f1ez street in the adjacent Bellavista neighbourhood \u2013 but it\u2019s gay-friendly and attracts a mixed crowd. Go early to snag a seat on the rooftop patio for dinner (book on +562 2881 3937) and then stick around for cocktails, such as Hell\u2019s Sour or Coraz\u00f3n de Sarita (both \u00a36)\u2022 Loreto 40, Recoleta, saritacoloniarestoran.cl. Open Mon-Wed 8pm-2am, Thurs-Sat 8pm-4amSantiago has one of the most exciting music scenes on the continent and, with a roster of live acts most nights, the Opera-Catedral bar in the artsy Bellas Artes neighbourhood is the perfect spot for a sonic adventure. A popular cafe by day, this resto-bar kicks into full gear after dark when the lights dim flatteringly low and Chile\u2019s top talent in everything from indie folk to electropop takes to the stage. Piscolas (pisco and Coca-Cola, \u00a33.45) are a band-night favourite, but more adventurous drinkers will enjoy intriguing cocktails, such as De Rosa los Petalos (\u00a33.80), an infusion of pisco, lemon and rose petals, or Espumante Tropical (\u00a33.50), local sparkling wine topped with a maceration of lemon and mint. Above the bar is an atmospheric rooftop terrace. Expect a cover of \u00a37 to enter on Friday and Saturday nights.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Miguel de la Barra Esquina Merced, operacatedral.cl. Open Mon-Thurs 12.30pm-3am, Fri-Sat 12.30pm-5amYou can\u2019t leave Santiago without trying Chile\u2019s most patriotic drink, and what better place to tackle a terremoto than one of the city\u2019s oldest and most beloved pic\u00e1s (dive bars): La Piojera. Typically reserved for Independence Day celebrations, a terremoto is a sort of wine shake that is more dessert than drink with pineapple ice-cream, pipe\u00f1o (a sweet white wine), and fernet (a bitter). Terremoto translates to earthquake in Spanish, and the love-it-or-hate-it mouth-freezer may very well leave you shaking. This ketchup-and-mustard-coloured adobe bar may have sticky tables and the odour of a frat house on a Sunday morning, but trying a terremoto here (for just \u00a32) is something of a rite of passage.\u2022 Aillavill\u00fa 1030, lapiojera.cl. Open Mon-Sat midday-12.30am", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "Bars and clubs", "Food & drink", "South America holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel", "Life and style"], "title": "Top 10 bars in Santiago, Chile"},{"date": "2015-09-17T17:12:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile has been shaken by dozens of aftershocks after a powerful earthquake toppled buildings, killed at least 11 people and forced the evacuation of more than 1 million people.The magnitude 8.3 tremor on Wednesday night lasted for three minutes, and caused a series of tsunami surges \u2013 some as high as 4.5 metres (15ft) \u2013 which swamped towns along the Chilean coast. Tsunami warnings were triggered in Japan, New Zealand and Russia, as well as the US states of California and Hawaii. After a night in which at least 40 aftershocks hit the region \u2013 including one at magnitude 7 and seven at magnitude 6 or above \u2013 daylight revealed scenes of wreckage and ruin for hundreds of miles along the Chilean coastline.In the port city of Coquimbo fishing boats were tossed across streets, roads were blocked by rockslides and streets were filled with piles of devastated adobe houses.In Illapel, near the epicentre, residents appeared dazed at daybreak as they wandered the streets, searching for loved ones and awaiting the restoration of electricity and other basic services. Army troops were being rushed to the scene.Many of the townspeople had been forced to sleep on the ground outside their destroyed homes. \u201cI thought it was the end of the world and we were going to die,\u201d Manuel Moya told the Associated Press, as he stood next to the ruins of his home. \u201cEverything is a mess. It was a disaster, a total loss. Bottles and glasses shattered and the pipes in the bathroom and kitchen burst,\u201d restaurant owner Melisa Pi\u00f1ones told Reuters.Tongoy, a fishing village popular with tourists, was also hit hard by the first tsunami waves, which made landfall just 25 minutes after the initial earthquake. Several seaside shops and restaurants were completely destroyed.In the popular tourist town of Conc\u00f3n, dozens of coastal restaurants were flooded and nearby surf schools destroyed by the series of waves that flooded distinct areas of the coast. Makeshift altars and lit candles marked the spots where residents had died.The Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, began a tour of damaged areas in the town of La Serena, near Coquimbo. She had previously cancelled her participation in many of the nation\u2019s independence day celebrations scheduled for Friday.\u201cWe\u2019re going to have go on the ground to see what the damages are and see where help is needed,\u201d Bachelet said.The earthquake came at the beginning of a four-day national holiday and hundreds of thousands of Chileans had already travelled to the coast. But mass evacuations were largely orderly, as Chile\u2019s national emergency office has run repeated practice evacuations following the massive 8.8 earthquake in February 2010. That quake and the ensuing tsunami killed more than 500 people, destroyed 220,000 homes and washed away docks, riverfronts and seaside resorts.On Wednesday night, panic erupted in Coquimbo where an estimated 40,000 revelers were gathered to inaugurate the nation\u2019s largest independence day celebration late on Wednesday evening. The quake hit just as mayor Cornelio Andrade was on the podium and set to cut the ribbon. \u201cIt felt like the earth was splitting open,\u201d Andrade told reporters. \u201cThe women began to scream the names of their children who were playing. It was a stampede, everyone was trying to get out.\u201dChile\u2019s ministry of the interior and public security said 20 people have been injured, but phone networks remain down in parts of the country so the full extent of damage and injury is not yet known.Schools have been closed in several regions. The interior ministry\u2019s national office of emergency has urged people not to return to their homes until they are told it is safe to do so.The quake also sparked fears tsunamis could surge across the Pacific Ocean, with countries as far away Japan, New Zealand, Russia and the US states of California and Hawaii issuing warnings.A watch was issued for the California coast: \u201cA tsunami capable of producing strong currents or waves dangerous to persons in or very near the water is expected. The first wave may not be the largest.\u201dA tsunami advisory for Hawaii said a \u201cmajor tsunami\u201d was not expected but it warned of sea-level changes and strong currents.The New Zealand minister for civil defence, Nikki Kaye, urged east coast residents in the path of any potential tsunami to stay out of the the ocean, out of boats and off beaches.The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said waves reaching one to three metres above the tide level were possible in French Polynesia, and that waves reaching 0.3 to one metre above tide level were possible for some coasts of New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii, Mexico, Ecuador, Peru, Japan, New Caledonia, Samoa, Russia and other Pacific territories.The PTWC later downgraded its warnings for some areas, including Hawaii. \u201cHowever, sea-level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells arriving between five minutes and one hour could be ongoing.The power of the initial earthquake was such that it could be felt across swaths of South America.In the Chilean capital, Santiago, more than 230km (140 miles) from the epicentre of the quake, buildings swayed and thousands fled their homes to take refuge in the streets.Car alarms were set off in Buenos Aires \u2013 more than 1,100km (680 miles) away on the Atlantic side of the continent.Public buildings, including the campus of the University of Buenos Aires, were evacuated. High-rises in the neighbourhoods of Belgrano and Palermo swayed so much that many ran out into the streets. Other Argentinian cities including Rosario and Mendoza reported mass evacuations.Chile is one of the world\u2019s most earthquake-prone countries. Just off the coast, the Nazca tectonic plate plunges beneath the South American plate, pushing the towering Andes cordillera to ever-higher altitudes.", "tags": ["Chile", "Earthquakes", "World news", "Americas", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Aftershocks rattle Chile after earthquake as death toll rises"},{"date": "2015-09-17T09:49:41Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Eight people have been killed and 1 million evacuated from their homes after a magnitude 8.3 earthquake struck just off the coast of Chile, sending powerful waves flooding into its coastal cities. Coastlines on both sides of the Pacific had braced for possible tsunamis after the quake, although a tsunami alert originally issued for the entire Chilean coast was later lifted. Chile\u2019s ministry of the interior and public security said 20 people have been injured, but phone networks remain down in parts of the country so the full extent of damage and injury is not yet known.A tsunami hit the coastal Chilean city of Tongoy at about 8.20pm local time, a little more than 25 minutes after the earthquake. Pictures appeared to show the city of Conc\u00f3n, popular with tourists, being deluged by waves. Chile\u2019s President Michelle Bachelet spoke on national television, saying Tongoy and Coquimbo had been extensively flooded and damaged. She declared a catastrophe zone in those areas and mobilised the military to help civilians and prevent looting.\u201cOnce again we must confront a powerful blow from nature,\u201d Bachelet told the nation.Schools have been closed in several regions. The interior ministry\u2019s national office of emergency has urged people not to return to their homes until they are told it is safe to do so.The quake also sparked fears tsunamis could surge across the Pacific Ocean, with countries as far away Japan, New Zealand, Russia and the US states of California and Hawaii issuing warnings.A watch was issued for the California coast: \u201cA tsunami capable of producing strong currents or waves dangerous to persons in or very near the water is expected. The first wave may not be the largest.\u201dA tsunami advisory for Hawaii said a \u201cmajor tsunami\u201d was not expected but it warned of sea level changes and strong currents.The New Zealand minister for civil defence, Nikki Kaye, urged east coast residents in the path of any potential tsunami to stay out of the the ocean, out of boats and off beaches.The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said waves reaching one to three metres above the tide level were possible in French Polynesia, and that waves reaching 0.3 to one metre above tide level were possible for some coasts of New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii, Mexico, Ecuador, Peru, Japan, New Caledonia, Samoa, Russia and other Pacific nations. The PTWC later downgraded its warnings for some areas, including Hawaii. \u201cHowever, sea level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells arriving between five minutes and one hour could be ongoing.The power of the initial earthquake was such that it could be felt across swaths of South America.In the Chilean capital, Santiago, more than 230km from the epicentre of the quake, buildings swayed and thousands fled their homes to take refuge in the streets.Car alarms were set off in Buenos Aires \u2013 more than 1,100km away on the Atlantic side of the South American continent.Public buildings, including the campus of the University of Buenos Aires, were evacuated. High-rises in the neighbourhoods of Belgrano and Palermo swayed so much that many ran out into the streets. Other Argentinian cities including Rosario and Mendoza reported mass evacuations. Related: Terremoto en #Chile: compartimos tus experiencias \u2013 share your earthquake experiences #temblor A magnitude 8.8 quake in central Chile in 2010 and ensuing tsunami killed more than 500 people, destroyed 220,000 homes and washed away docks, riverfronts and seaside resorts.That quake released so much energy it shortened the Earth\u2019s day by a fraction of a second, by changing the planet\u2019s rotation.Chile is one of the world\u2019s most earthquake-prone countries in the world. Just off the coast, the Nazca tectonic plate plunges beneath the South American plate, pushing the towering Andes cordillera to ever-higher altitudes.The strongest earthquake recorded happened in Chile in 1960 when a magnitude 9.5 tremor killed more than 5,000 people.", "tags": ["Earthquakes", "Chile", "Americas", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news"], "title": "1 million evacuated as Chile hit by magnitude 8.3 earthquake"},{"date": "2015-09-17T11:41:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile lifted its tsunami warning on Thursday and Pacific islands experienced only minor waves, hours after a 8.3 magnitude earthquake had led to fears of massive swells. Related: 1 million evacuated as Chile hit by magnitude 8.3 earthquake \u201cThe tsunami warning is lifted for all national territory,\u201d the Chilean government\u2019s national emergency office said in a tweet. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) had issued a threat message saying saying hazardous tsunami waves were forecast for some coasts. \u201cTsunami waves have been observed,\u201d it said in the latests update on Thursday.The PTWC said the first waves were arriving on the eastern town of Rikitea, on Mangareva island in French Polynesia, but they were only 28cm high. It was the early hours of the morning in Rikitea, meaning few people would be on the beaches.Much of the nation\u2019s population lives in low-lying coastal areas at risk of flooding and there were concerns waves could rise to between one and three metres. However, even that is small when compared to the 2011 quake in Japan in which waves reached 14-metres in height above sea level.Tsunami generated by M8.3 #earthquake from central Chile arriving in French Polynesia (Rikitea)In some areas, such as Hawaii, initial fears of a large tsunami were lowered, the PTWC said in a update.\u201cHowever, sea level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells might continue.On Chile\u2019s Easter Island, around 3,500km (2,174 miles) from the mainland, residents received a tsunami alert. One tourist hotel, the Puku Vai, said on Twitter that guests were safe.Our guests have all received information and instructions regarding #tsunami alert. We're in safety zone so your family or friends are safe.The tremor struck off the Chilean coast, about 232km north-west of the capital, Santiago. It hit about 8pm local time (11pm GMT). Seismologists predicted that waves would reach South Pacific islands between nine and 12 hours later. Waves would hit New Zealand, Australia and Japan between 12 and 24 hours after the quake.The Ministry of Civil Defence in New Zealand warned people in the coastal areas of Chatham Islands and the east coast, nearly 10,000km from Chile, to stay out of the water overnight.\u201cExpect unusually strong currents and unpredictable water flows near the shore,\u201d it said.The US National Tsunami Warning Center released a chart of how the earthquake energy might spread across the Pacific. It showed the waves would lose height over the huge expanse of the ocean. Related: Chile earthquake: one million people evacuated after 8.3 magnitude quake \u2013 rolling report On the Chilean mainland, waves of up to 4.5 metres were recorded at Conquimbo and two metres at Tongoy. The country\u2019s president, Michelle Bachelet, said both areas had been declared catastrophe zones and troops would be sent in to deter looting.In the Solomon Islands of the South Pacific, the local meteorological service said: \u201cAt this stage we don\u2019t know if a tsunami has actually been generated.\u201dThe Fiji Times quoted the country\u2019s government as saying the public should be on watch for the first wave to arrive at midnight local time. It advised \u201cno immediate action\u201d.\u201cThe Mineral Resources Department Seismology section has issued a tsunami watch and advisory a short time ago, warning residents in those areas to be on watch and get updates through the media,\u201d it said.A watch means a tsunami is possible, according to Chevy Chevalier, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service in Honolulu. \u201cA watch is for everybody to be aware of it, that it\u2019s a possibility,\u201d he said. \u201cA warning means it\u2019s happening right now or it\u2019s imminent.\u201dEight people have been reported killed in Chile\u2019s largest earthquake since the February 2010 tremor that killed more than 500. About 20 people have been reported injured so far and 1 million people have been evacuated from their homes.The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report ", "tags": ["Tsunamis", "South Pacific", "Vanuatu", "Fiji", "Solomon Islands", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Chile", "Hawaii", "US news", "Australia news", "New Zealand", "Michelle Bachelet", "California", "Americas"], "title": "Tsunami warning lifted after Chile earthquake"},{"date": "2015-07-03T12:27:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Santiago has never really had its moment in the spotlight. Overshadowed by flashier neighbours, such as Rio and Buenos Aires, it has traditionally been nothing more than an unavoidable stopover en route to somewhere more exciting: Patagonia, Easter Island, the Atacama desert. But, in recent years, this metropolis of seven million has established itself as a destination in its own right. No longer content to hide beneath the shadow of the Andes, it now has a number of vibrant cultural centres (such as the striking, copper-encased GAM, which specialises in promoting the performing arts and music), glittering skyscrapers, award-winning restaurants and fantastic bars. The latter of these focus on the things Chile does best: wine and pisco, the local brandy with a grassy colour and spicy-sweet taste. Add to the mix a forward-looking music scene, growing interest in high design and superb craft brews from Patagonia and you begin to see why Santiago is a city out to surprise.If Chile is known for one thing around the world it\u2019s wine. When a trip to one of the dozen wineries in the nearby Casablanca valley \u2013 or more than two-dozen wineries in the more famous Colchagua valley two hours south \u2013 doesn\u2019t fit in the schedule, BocaNariz in the trendy Lastarria neighbourhood is the next best thing. Santiago\u2019s newest and finest \u201cvinobar\u201d has the look and feel of a cosy wine library, with a massive wine menu and flights of wine (three samples) themed by region or style. Better still, it has well-trained, English-speaking staff and is one of the only places in town where premium-quality wine is available by the glass (from \u00a34). Scroll the menu for the daily selection of carm\u00e9n\u00e8re, Chile\u2019s signature grape that was, until 20 years ago, thought to be a variety of merlot.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Victorino Lastarria 276, bocanariz.cl. Open Mon-Wed midday-midnight, Thurs-Sat midday-12.30am, Sun 7pm-11pmA Santiago institution, this old-school favourite has three outposts across town that are equally heavy on character, with walls covered with vintage posters and Chilean memorabilia. For the best of the best, head to the original Manuel Montt location where the tables inside are as sought after as the ones on the patio outside (though, if you arrive early on \u201cgringo time\u201d, you won\u2019t need to queue). Liguria is a cross between a restaurant and a pub, and locals and tourists alike come for a traditional dinner (think razor clams doused in parmesan or crab casserole) and stay long into the night to enjoy live music and to chat over a bottle of cabernet sauvignon (from \u00a37.90). Call +562 2235 7914 to book.\u2022 Avenida Providencia 1373, Providencia, liguria.cl. Open Mon-Sat 11am-2amIt\u2019s best not to mention Peruvian pisco in affectionate terms while visiting Chile. Why? Because there is much sour feeling over who made South America\u2019s beloved brandy first (and who, today, distils the finest batch). Get the lowdown at Chipe Libre, a welcome addition to the Lastarria neighbourhood with checkered floors, wooden tables and an expansive garden patio. This self-described \u201crepublic of pisco\u201d not only boasts Chile\u2019s largest pisco menu but also knowledgeable staff eager to share the variations \u2013 and there are many \u2013 between the Peruvian and Chilean brandy. Order a flight of pisco (from \u00a33.45) or a round of pisco sours (from \u00a33.25 each) and decide for yourself which country\u2019s tipple tickles your fancy.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Victorino Lastarria 282, Facebook page. Open Mon-Wed 12.30pm-1am, Thurs-Sat 12.30pm-1.30am, closed SundaysOwned by Chile\u2019s top satirical magazine, The Clinic, and covered in its political cartoons, this infamous bar is where the intelligentsia comes to bicker over beers. It\u2019s also a great introduction to the political landscape, particularly for any left-leaning, socialist-minded, Chile-curious individuals. Bar The Clinic is one of the best places in town to sample some of the fantastic craft brews coming out of Chilean Patagonia, including Austral Calafate and Kunstmann Ar\u00e1ndano (both \u00a32.90). Or, if you prefer wine, the menu has four pages of Chilean varieties within its cheeky, tabloid layout, which mimics the tone of its parent magazine. Unlike most other bars in town, this place is open by 1pm and hopping soon after.\u2022 Monjitas 578, bartheclinic.cl. Open Mon-Wed 1pm-3am, Thurs 1pm-3.30am, Fri 1pm-4.30am, Sun 5pm-4.30amKy is an Asian-themed speakeasy that\u2019s behind a graffiti-tagged wall that you might otherwise mistake for the entrance to an abandoned building. Far from being neglected, however, what you\u2019ll find inside is an opulent funhouse with an eclectic interior design that could easily pass for the set of a Wong Kar-wai film (think 2046). Plush sofas, theatrical curtains and funky lighting from competing chandeliers give the place an aesthetic that serves as the perfect setting for fusion martinis such as Rozameltini (pisco, kaffir lime and fresh blueberry juice, \u00a38) or Mirotini (Grand Marnier, pisco, passion fruit and raspberry juice, \u00a34.80). Call ahead for a table (+562 2777 7245); Ky is no longer the secret it once was.\u2022 Avenida Per\u00fa 631, restobarky.cl. Open Tues-Sat 10pm-2amGin is not a liquor often found on menus in this pisco-loving country, but it\u2019s the raison d\u2019\u00eatre for one of the newest bars in Santiago\u2019s rapidly gentrifying Barrio Italia neighbourhood. Ruca Bar is a popular expat hangout and gin-lover\u2019s paradise, with 10 cocktails honouring the spirit that range in price from \u00a33.80-\u00a35. It\u2019s also notable for its menu of tapas such as Pulpo On The Rocks: octopus saut\u00e9ed in merk\u00e9n (an earthy Chilean spice), draped over charred black potatoes and served on a slate. Be sure to go early on Thursdays when Bombay Sapphire \u201cGin Tonics\u201d (no need to use the \u201cand\u201d here) are just a luca (\u00a31) from 6pm-10pm.\u2022 Condell 868, Providencia, rucabar.com. Open Tues-Thurs 6pm-1am, Fri 6pm-2.30am, Sat 1pm-2.30am, Sun 1pm-7pmTramonto Bar and Terrace tends to attract the upper echelon of Chilean society, thanks to its prime location on Alonso de C\u00f3rdova, Santiago\u2019s mini Madison Avenue. This hotel bar (it belongs to the Noi Vitacura) is the best of a growing number of rooftop options in Santiago and pairs the see-and-be-seen atmosphere of the exclusive Vitacura neighbourhood with stunning Andean views. The best time to go is sunset when you can order a pisco sour (\u00a34) and watch as the towering Andes light up in amber hues. When daylight fades, waiters bring out candles and the poolside terrace takes on a more romantic tone.\u2022 Avenida Nueva Costanera 3736, Vitacura, noihotels.com. Open Mon-Wed 11am-am, Thurs-Sat 11am-2am, Sun 11am-midnightThis audacious new addition to Santiago\u2019s restobar scene boasts \u201ccross-dress Peruvian gastronomy\u201d (aka Asian-Latin fusion) and a design style that can only really be described as Catholic kitsch. Opened in late 2014 by Gino Falcone, one of Chile\u2019s top interior designers, Sarita Colonia is home to a menagerie of religious artefacts such as stained-glass windows, wooden confessionals and a faux cemetery replete with a life-size statue of Sarita Colonia, the patron saint of all \u201cmisfits\u201d. It\u2019s not quite a gay bar \u2013 you\u2019ll find many of those on Bombero Nu\u00f1ez street in the adjacent Bellavista neighbourhood \u2013 but it\u2019s gay-friendly and attracts a mixed crowd. Go early to snag a seat on the rooftop patio for dinner (book on +562 2881 3937) and then stick around for cocktails, such as Hell\u2019s Sour or Coraz\u00f3n de Sarita (both \u00a36)\u2022 Loreto 40, Recoleta, saritacoloniarestoran.cl. Open Mon-Wed 8pm-2am, Thurs-Sat 8pm-4amSantiago has one of the most exciting music scenes on the continent and, with a roster of live acts most nights, the Opera-Catedral bar in the artsy Bellas Artes neighbourhood is the perfect spot for a sonic adventure. A popular cafe by day, this resto-bar kicks into full gear after dark when the lights dim flatteringly low and Chile\u2019s top talent in everything from indie folk to electropop takes to the stage. Piscolas (pisco and Coca-Cola, \u00a33.45) are a band-night favourite, but more adventurous drinkers will enjoy intriguing cocktails, such as De Rosa los Petalos (\u00a33.80), an infusion of pisco, lemon and rose petals, or Espumante Tropical (\u00a33.50), local sparkling wine topped with a maceration of lemon and mint. Above the bar is an atmospheric rooftop terrace. Expect a cover of \u00a37 to enter on Friday and Saturday nights.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Miguel de la Barra Esquina Merced, operacatedral.cl. Open Mon-Thurs 12.30pm-3am, Fri-Sat 12.30pm-5amYou can\u2019t leave Santiago without trying Chile\u2019s most patriotic drink, and what better place to tackle a terremoto than one of the city\u2019s oldest and most beloved pic\u00e1s (dive bars): La Piojera. Typically reserved for Independence Day celebrations, a terremoto is a sort of wine shake that is more dessert than drink with pineapple ice-cream, pipe\u00f1o (a sweet white wine), and fernet (a bitter). Terremoto translates to earthquake in Spanish, and the love-it-or-hate-it mouth-freezer may very well leave you shaking. This ketchup-and-mustard-coloured adobe bar may have sticky tables and the odour of a frat house on a Sunday morning, but trying a terremoto here (for just \u00a32) is something of a rite of passage.\u2022 Aillavill\u00fa 1030, lapiojera.cl. Open Mon-Sat midday-12.30am", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "Bars and clubs", "Food & drink", "South America holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel", "Life and style"], "title": "Top 10 bars in Santiago, Chile"},{"date": "2015-09-17T17:12:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile has been shaken by dozens of aftershocks after a powerful earthquake toppled buildings, killed at least 11 people and forced the evacuation of more than 1 million people.The magnitude 8.3 tremor on Wednesday night lasted for three minutes, and caused a series of tsunami surges \u2013 some as high as 4.5 metres (15ft) \u2013 which swamped towns along the Chilean coast. Tsunami warnings were triggered in Japan, New Zealand and Russia, as well as the US states of California and Hawaii. After a night in which at least 40 aftershocks hit the region \u2013 including one at magnitude 7 and seven at magnitude 6 or above \u2013 daylight revealed scenes of wreckage and ruin for hundreds of miles along the Chilean coastline.In the port city of Coquimbo fishing boats were tossed across streets, roads were blocked by rockslides and streets were filled with piles of devastated adobe houses.In Illapel, near the epicentre, residents appeared dazed at daybreak as they wandered the streets, searching for loved ones and awaiting the restoration of electricity and other basic services. Army troops were being rushed to the scene.Many of the townspeople had been forced to sleep on the ground outside their destroyed homes. \u201cI thought it was the end of the world and we were going to die,\u201d Manuel Moya told the Associated Press, as he stood next to the ruins of his home. \u201cEverything is a mess. It was a disaster, a total loss. Bottles and glasses shattered and the pipes in the bathroom and kitchen burst,\u201d restaurant owner Melisa Pi\u00f1ones told Reuters.Tongoy, a fishing village popular with tourists, was also hit hard by the first tsunami waves, which made landfall just 25 minutes after the initial earthquake. Several seaside shops and restaurants were completely destroyed.In the popular tourist town of Conc\u00f3n, dozens of coastal restaurants were flooded and nearby surf schools destroyed by the series of waves that flooded distinct areas of the coast. Makeshift altars and lit candles marked the spots where residents had died.The Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, began a tour of damaged areas in the town of La Serena, near Coquimbo. She had previously cancelled her participation in many of the nation\u2019s independence day celebrations scheduled for Friday.\u201cWe\u2019re going to have go on the ground to see what the damages are and see where help is needed,\u201d Bachelet said.The earthquake came at the beginning of a four-day national holiday and hundreds of thousands of Chileans had already travelled to the coast. But mass evacuations were largely orderly, as Chile\u2019s national emergency office has run repeated practice evacuations following the massive 8.8 earthquake in February 2010. That quake and the ensuing tsunami killed more than 500 people, destroyed 220,000 homes and washed away docks, riverfronts and seaside resorts.On Wednesday night, panic erupted in Coquimbo where an estimated 40,000 revelers were gathered to inaugurate the nation\u2019s largest independence day celebration late on Wednesday evening. The quake hit just as mayor Cornelio Andrade was on the podium and set to cut the ribbon. \u201cIt felt like the earth was splitting open,\u201d Andrade told reporters. \u201cThe women began to scream the names of their children who were playing. It was a stampede, everyone was trying to get out.\u201dChile\u2019s ministry of the interior and public security said 20 people have been injured, but phone networks remain down in parts of the country so the full extent of damage and injury is not yet known.Schools have been closed in several regions. The interior ministry\u2019s national office of emergency has urged people not to return to their homes until they are told it is safe to do so.The quake also sparked fears tsunamis could surge across the Pacific Ocean, with countries as far away Japan, New Zealand, Russia and the US states of California and Hawaii issuing warnings.A watch was issued for the California coast: \u201cA tsunami capable of producing strong currents or waves dangerous to persons in or very near the water is expected. The first wave may not be the largest.\u201dA tsunami advisory for Hawaii said a \u201cmajor tsunami\u201d was not expected but it warned of sea-level changes and strong currents.The New Zealand minister for civil defence, Nikki Kaye, urged east coast residents in the path of any potential tsunami to stay out of the the ocean, out of boats and off beaches.The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said waves reaching one to three metres above the tide level were possible in French Polynesia, and that waves reaching 0.3 to one metre above tide level were possible for some coasts of New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii, Mexico, Ecuador, Peru, Japan, New Caledonia, Samoa, Russia and other Pacific territories.The PTWC later downgraded its warnings for some areas, including Hawaii. \u201cHowever, sea-level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells arriving between five minutes and one hour could be ongoing.The power of the initial earthquake was such that it could be felt across swaths of South America.In the Chilean capital, Santiago, more than 230km (140 miles) from the epicentre of the quake, buildings swayed and thousands fled their homes to take refuge in the streets.Car alarms were set off in Buenos Aires \u2013 more than 1,100km (680 miles) away on the Atlantic side of the continent.Public buildings, including the campus of the University of Buenos Aires, were evacuated. High-rises in the neighbourhoods of Belgrano and Palermo swayed so much that many ran out into the streets. Other Argentinian cities including Rosario and Mendoza reported mass evacuations.Chile is one of the world\u2019s most earthquake-prone countries. Just off the coast, the Nazca tectonic plate plunges beneath the South American plate, pushing the towering Andes cordillera to ever-higher altitudes.", "tags": ["Chile", "Earthquakes", "World news", "Americas", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Aftershocks rattle Chile after earthquake as death toll rises"},{"date": "2015-09-17T09:49:41Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Eight people have been killed and 1 million evacuated from their homes after a magnitude 8.3 earthquake struck just off the coast of Chile, sending powerful waves flooding into its coastal cities. Coastlines on both sides of the Pacific had braced for possible tsunamis after the quake, although a tsunami alert originally issued for the entire Chilean coast was later lifted. Chile\u2019s ministry of the interior and public security said 20 people have been injured, but phone networks remain down in parts of the country so the full extent of damage and injury is not yet known.A tsunami hit the coastal Chilean city of Tongoy at about 8.20pm local time, a little more than 25 minutes after the earthquake. Pictures appeared to show the city of Conc\u00f3n, popular with tourists, being deluged by waves. Chile\u2019s President Michelle Bachelet spoke on national television, saying Tongoy and Coquimbo had been extensively flooded and damaged. She declared a catastrophe zone in those areas and mobilised the military to help civilians and prevent looting.\u201cOnce again we must confront a powerful blow from nature,\u201d Bachelet told the nation.Schools have been closed in several regions. The interior ministry\u2019s national office of emergency has urged people not to return to their homes until they are told it is safe to do so.The quake also sparked fears tsunamis could surge across the Pacific Ocean, with countries as far away Japan, New Zealand, Russia and the US states of California and Hawaii issuing warnings.A watch was issued for the California coast: \u201cA tsunami capable of producing strong currents or waves dangerous to persons in or very near the water is expected. The first wave may not be the largest.\u201dA tsunami advisory for Hawaii said a \u201cmajor tsunami\u201d was not expected but it warned of sea level changes and strong currents.The New Zealand minister for civil defence, Nikki Kaye, urged east coast residents in the path of any potential tsunami to stay out of the the ocean, out of boats and off beaches.The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said waves reaching one to three metres above the tide level were possible in French Polynesia, and that waves reaching 0.3 to one metre above tide level were possible for some coasts of New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii, Mexico, Ecuador, Peru, Japan, New Caledonia, Samoa, Russia and other Pacific nations. The PTWC later downgraded its warnings for some areas, including Hawaii. \u201cHowever, sea level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells arriving between five minutes and one hour could be ongoing.The power of the initial earthquake was such that it could be felt across swaths of South America.In the Chilean capital, Santiago, more than 230km from the epicentre of the quake, buildings swayed and thousands fled their homes to take refuge in the streets.Car alarms were set off in Buenos Aires \u2013 more than 1,100km away on the Atlantic side of the South American continent.Public buildings, including the campus of the University of Buenos Aires, were evacuated. High-rises in the neighbourhoods of Belgrano and Palermo swayed so much that many ran out into the streets. Other Argentinian cities including Rosario and Mendoza reported mass evacuations. Related: Terremoto en #Chile: compartimos tus experiencias \u2013 share your earthquake experiences #temblor A magnitude 8.8 quake in central Chile in 2010 and ensuing tsunami killed more than 500 people, destroyed 220,000 homes and washed away docks, riverfronts and seaside resorts.That quake released so much energy it shortened the Earth\u2019s day by a fraction of a second, by changing the planet\u2019s rotation.Chile is one of the world\u2019s most earthquake-prone countries in the world. Just off the coast, the Nazca tectonic plate plunges beneath the South American plate, pushing the towering Andes cordillera to ever-higher altitudes.The strongest earthquake recorded happened in Chile in 1960 when a magnitude 9.5 tremor killed more than 5,000 people.", "tags": ["Earthquakes", "Chile", "Americas", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news"], "title": "1 million evacuated as Chile hit by magnitude 8.3 earthquake"},{"date": "2015-09-17T03:31:50Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Si le ha afectado el terremoto, comparta sus fotos, v\u00eddeos e historias aqu\u00edUn poderoso terremoto de magnitud 8,3 ha golpeado la costa de Chile, causando varios muertos y heridos, la destrucci\u00f3n de edificios y la evacuaci\u00f3n de un mill\u00f3n de personas. Related: Chile earthquake: massive 8.3 magnitude tremor strikes Santiago \u2013 live updates La potencia del terremoto fue tal que forz\u00f3 una alerta de tsunami a lo largo de la costa pac\u00edfica, y el temblor se pudo sentir en diferentes zonas de Am\u00e9rica del Sud. Si usted se vio afectado por el terremoto, nos gustar\u00eda que compartiera su experiencia con nosotros. Para hacerlo, simplemente haga click en el bot\u00f3n azul marcado con \u201cContribute with GuardianWitness\u201d en esta p\u00e1gina. Estamos interesados en fotograf\u00edas y v\u00eddeos de las evacuaciones, inundaciones y da\u00f1os causados por el terremoto. Incluiremos una selecci\u00f3n de sus im\u00e1genes y v\u00eddeos como parte de la cobertura del terremoto en nuestra web.  Related: Earthquake in Chile: your GuardianWitness contributions If you\u2019ve been affected by the earthquake in Chile, we want to hear from youA powerful 8.3 magnitude earthquake has struck off the coast of Chile, causing multiple deaths and injuries, destruction of buildings and the evacuation of a million people.The power of the earthquake was such that it forced a tsunami watch alert across the Pacific Ocean, and could be felt across swathes of South America.If you are affected by the earthquake, we\u2019d like to hear from you. We\u2019re interested in photographs and videos of evacuations, earthquake damage and flooding. We\u2019ll include a selection of footage in our coverage on the site.You can also download the GuardianWitness app or look for our assignments in the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. If you\u2019re on Instagram you can contribute using #GuardianWitness", "tags": ["Chile", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news"], "title": "Terremoto en #Chile: comparta sus experiencias \u2013 share your earthquake experiences #temblor"},{"date": "2015-09-17T11:41:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile lifted its tsunami warning on Thursday and Pacific islands experienced only minor waves, hours after a 8.3 magnitude earthquake had led to fears of massive swells. Related: 1 million evacuated as Chile hit by magnitude 8.3 earthquake \u201cThe tsunami warning is lifted for all national territory,\u201d the Chilean government\u2019s national emergency office said in a tweet. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) had issued a threat message saying saying hazardous tsunami waves were forecast for some coasts. \u201cTsunami waves have been observed,\u201d it said in the latests update on Thursday.The PTWC said the first waves were arriving on the eastern town of Rikitea, on Mangareva island in French Polynesia, but they were only 28cm high. It was the early hours of the morning in Rikitea, meaning few people would be on the beaches.Much of the nation\u2019s population lives in low-lying coastal areas at risk of flooding and there were concerns waves could rise to between one and three metres. However, even that is small when compared to the 2011 quake in Japan in which waves reached 14-metres in height above sea level.Tsunami generated by M8.3 #earthquake from central Chile arriving in French Polynesia (Rikitea)In some areas, such as Hawaii, initial fears of a large tsunami were lowered, the PTWC said in a update.\u201cHowever, sea level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells might continue.On Chile\u2019s Easter Island, around 3,500km (2,174 miles) from the mainland, residents received a tsunami alert. One tourist hotel, the Puku Vai, said on Twitter that guests were safe.Our guests have all received information and instructions regarding #tsunami alert. We're in safety zone so your family or friends are safe.The tremor struck off the Chilean coast, about 232km north-west of the capital, Santiago. It hit about 8pm local time (11pm GMT). Seismologists predicted that waves would reach South Pacific islands between nine and 12 hours later. Waves would hit New Zealand, Australia and Japan between 12 and 24 hours after the quake.The Ministry of Civil Defence in New Zealand warned people in the coastal areas of Chatham Islands and the east coast, nearly 10,000km from Chile, to stay out of the water overnight.\u201cExpect unusually strong currents and unpredictable water flows near the shore,\u201d it said.The US National Tsunami Warning Center released a chart of how the earthquake energy might spread across the Pacific. It showed the waves would lose height over the huge expanse of the ocean. Related: Chile earthquake: one million people evacuated after 8.3 magnitude quake \u2013 rolling report On the Chilean mainland, waves of up to 4.5 metres were recorded at Conquimbo and two metres at Tongoy. The country\u2019s president, Michelle Bachelet, said both areas had been declared catastrophe zones and troops would be sent in to deter looting.In the Solomon Islands of the South Pacific, the local meteorological service said: \u201cAt this stage we don\u2019t know if a tsunami has actually been generated.\u201dThe Fiji Times quoted the country\u2019s government as saying the public should be on watch for the first wave to arrive at midnight local time. It advised \u201cno immediate action\u201d.\u201cThe Mineral Resources Department Seismology section has issued a tsunami watch and advisory a short time ago, warning residents in those areas to be on watch and get updates through the media,\u201d it said.A watch means a tsunami is possible, according to Chevy Chevalier, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service in Honolulu. \u201cA watch is for everybody to be aware of it, that it\u2019s a possibility,\u201d he said. \u201cA warning means it\u2019s happening right now or it\u2019s imminent.\u201dEight people have been reported killed in Chile\u2019s largest earthquake since the February 2010 tremor that killed more than 500. About 20 people have been reported injured so far and 1 million people have been evacuated from their homes.The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report ", "tags": ["Tsunamis", "South Pacific", "Vanuatu", "Fiji", "Solomon Islands", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Chile", "Hawaii", "US news", "Australia news", "New Zealand", "Michelle Bachelet", "California", "Americas"], "title": "Tsunami warning lifted after Chile earthquake"},{"date": "2015-07-03T12:27:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Santiago has never really had its moment in the spotlight. Overshadowed by flashier neighbours, such as Rio and Buenos Aires, it has traditionally been nothing more than an unavoidable stopover en route to somewhere more exciting: Patagonia, Easter Island, the Atacama desert. But, in recent years, this metropolis of seven million has established itself as a destination in its own right. No longer content to hide beneath the shadow of the Andes, it now has a number of vibrant cultural centres (such as the striking, copper-encased GAM, which specialises in promoting the performing arts and music), glittering skyscrapers, award-winning restaurants and fantastic bars. The latter of these focus on the things Chile does best: wine and pisco, the local brandy with a grassy colour and spicy-sweet taste. Add to the mix a forward-looking music scene, growing interest in high design and superb craft brews from Patagonia and you begin to see why Santiago is a city out to surprise.If Chile is known for one thing around the world it\u2019s wine. When a trip to one of the dozen wineries in the nearby Casablanca valley \u2013 or more than two-dozen wineries in the more famous Colchagua valley two hours south \u2013 doesn\u2019t fit in the schedule, BocaNariz in the trendy Lastarria neighbourhood is the next best thing. Santiago\u2019s newest and finest \u201cvinobar\u201d has the look and feel of a cosy wine library, with a massive wine menu and flights of wine (three samples) themed by region or style. Better still, it has well-trained, English-speaking staff and is one of the only places in town where premium-quality wine is available by the glass (from \u00a34). Scroll the menu for the daily selection of carm\u00e9n\u00e8re, Chile\u2019s signature grape that was, until 20 years ago, thought to be a variety of merlot.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Victorino Lastarria 276, bocanariz.cl. Open Mon-Wed midday-midnight, Thurs-Sat midday-12.30am, Sun 7pm-11pmA Santiago institution, this old-school favourite has three outposts across town that are equally heavy on character, with walls covered with vintage posters and Chilean memorabilia. For the best of the best, head to the original Manuel Montt location where the tables inside are as sought after as the ones on the patio outside (though, if you arrive early on \u201cgringo time\u201d, you won\u2019t need to queue). Liguria is a cross between a restaurant and a pub, and locals and tourists alike come for a traditional dinner (think razor clams doused in parmesan or crab casserole) and stay long into the night to enjoy live music and to chat over a bottle of cabernet sauvignon (from \u00a37.90). Call +562 2235 7914 to book.\u2022 Avenida Providencia 1373, Providencia, liguria.cl. Open Mon-Sat 11am-2amIt\u2019s best not to mention Peruvian pisco in affectionate terms while visiting Chile. Why? Because there is much sour feeling over who made South America\u2019s beloved brandy first (and who, today, distils the finest batch). Get the lowdown at Chipe Libre, a welcome addition to the Lastarria neighbourhood with checkered floors, wooden tables and an expansive garden patio. This self-described \u201crepublic of pisco\u201d not only boasts Chile\u2019s largest pisco menu but also knowledgeable staff eager to share the variations \u2013 and there are many \u2013 between the Peruvian and Chilean brandy. Order a flight of pisco (from \u00a33.45) or a round of pisco sours (from \u00a33.25 each) and decide for yourself which country\u2019s tipple tickles your fancy.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Victorino Lastarria 282, Facebook page. Open Mon-Wed 12.30pm-1am, Thurs-Sat 12.30pm-1.30am, closed SundaysOwned by Chile\u2019s top satirical magazine, The Clinic, and covered in its political cartoons, this infamous bar is where the intelligentsia comes to bicker over beers. It\u2019s also a great introduction to the political landscape, particularly for any left-leaning, socialist-minded, Chile-curious individuals. Bar The Clinic is one of the best places in town to sample some of the fantastic craft brews coming out of Chilean Patagonia, including Austral Calafate and Kunstmann Ar\u00e1ndano (both \u00a32.90). Or, if you prefer wine, the menu has four pages of Chilean varieties within its cheeky, tabloid layout, which mimics the tone of its parent magazine. Unlike most other bars in town, this place is open by 1pm and hopping soon after.\u2022 Monjitas 578, bartheclinic.cl. Open Mon-Wed 1pm-3am, Thurs 1pm-3.30am, Fri 1pm-4.30am, Sun 5pm-4.30amKy is an Asian-themed speakeasy that\u2019s behind a graffiti-tagged wall that you might otherwise mistake for the entrance to an abandoned building. Far from being neglected, however, what you\u2019ll find inside is an opulent funhouse with an eclectic interior design that could easily pass for the set of a Wong Kar-wai film (think 2046). Plush sofas, theatrical curtains and funky lighting from competing chandeliers give the place an aesthetic that serves as the perfect setting for fusion martinis such as Rozameltini (pisco, kaffir lime and fresh blueberry juice, \u00a38) or Mirotini (Grand Marnier, pisco, passion fruit and raspberry juice, \u00a34.80). Call ahead for a table (+562 2777 7245); Ky is no longer the secret it once was.\u2022 Avenida Per\u00fa 631, restobarky.cl. Open Tues-Sat 10pm-2amGin is not a liquor often found on menus in this pisco-loving country, but it\u2019s the raison d\u2019\u00eatre for one of the newest bars in Santiago\u2019s rapidly gentrifying Barrio Italia neighbourhood. Ruca Bar is a popular expat hangout and gin-lover\u2019s paradise, with 10 cocktails honouring the spirit that range in price from \u00a33.80-\u00a35. It\u2019s also notable for its menu of tapas such as Pulpo On The Rocks: octopus saut\u00e9ed in merk\u00e9n (an earthy Chilean spice), draped over charred black potatoes and served on a slate. Be sure to go early on Thursdays when Bombay Sapphire \u201cGin Tonics\u201d (no need to use the \u201cand\u201d here) are just a luca (\u00a31) from 6pm-10pm.\u2022 Condell 868, Providencia, rucabar.com. Open Tues-Thurs 6pm-1am, Fri 6pm-2.30am, Sat 1pm-2.30am, Sun 1pm-7pmTramonto Bar and Terrace tends to attract the upper echelon of Chilean society, thanks to its prime location on Alonso de C\u00f3rdova, Santiago\u2019s mini Madison Avenue. This hotel bar (it belongs to the Noi Vitacura) is the best of a growing number of rooftop options in Santiago and pairs the see-and-be-seen atmosphere of the exclusive Vitacura neighbourhood with stunning Andean views. The best time to go is sunset when you can order a pisco sour (\u00a34) and watch as the towering Andes light up in amber hues. When daylight fades, waiters bring out candles and the poolside terrace takes on a more romantic tone.\u2022 Avenida Nueva Costanera 3736, Vitacura, noihotels.com. Open Mon-Wed 11am-am, Thurs-Sat 11am-2am, Sun 11am-midnightThis audacious new addition to Santiago\u2019s restobar scene boasts \u201ccross-dress Peruvian gastronomy\u201d (aka Asian-Latin fusion) and a design style that can only really be described as Catholic kitsch. Opened in late 2014 by Gino Falcone, one of Chile\u2019s top interior designers, Sarita Colonia is home to a menagerie of religious artefacts such as stained-glass windows, wooden confessionals and a faux cemetery replete with a life-size statue of Sarita Colonia, the patron saint of all \u201cmisfits\u201d. It\u2019s not quite a gay bar \u2013 you\u2019ll find many of those on Bombero Nu\u00f1ez street in the adjacent Bellavista neighbourhood \u2013 but it\u2019s gay-friendly and attracts a mixed crowd. Go early to snag a seat on the rooftop patio for dinner (book on +562 2881 3937) and then stick around for cocktails, such as Hell\u2019s Sour or Coraz\u00f3n de Sarita (both \u00a36)\u2022 Loreto 40, Recoleta, saritacoloniarestoran.cl. Open Mon-Wed 8pm-2am, Thurs-Sat 8pm-4amSantiago has one of the most exciting music scenes on the continent and, with a roster of live acts most nights, the Opera-Catedral bar in the artsy Bellas Artes neighbourhood is the perfect spot for a sonic adventure. A popular cafe by day, this resto-bar kicks into full gear after dark when the lights dim flatteringly low and Chile\u2019s top talent in everything from indie folk to electropop takes to the stage. Piscolas (pisco and Coca-Cola, \u00a33.45) are a band-night favourite, but more adventurous drinkers will enjoy intriguing cocktails, such as De Rosa los Petalos (\u00a33.80), an infusion of pisco, lemon and rose petals, or Espumante Tropical (\u00a33.50), local sparkling wine topped with a maceration of lemon and mint. Above the bar is an atmospheric rooftop terrace. Expect a cover of \u00a37 to enter on Friday and Saturday nights.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Miguel de la Barra Esquina Merced, operacatedral.cl. Open Mon-Thurs 12.30pm-3am, Fri-Sat 12.30pm-5amYou can\u2019t leave Santiago without trying Chile\u2019s most patriotic drink, and what better place to tackle a terremoto than one of the city\u2019s oldest and most beloved pic\u00e1s (dive bars): La Piojera. Typically reserved for Independence Day celebrations, a terremoto is a sort of wine shake that is more dessert than drink with pineapple ice-cream, pipe\u00f1o (a sweet white wine), and fernet (a bitter). Terremoto translates to earthquake in Spanish, and the love-it-or-hate-it mouth-freezer may very well leave you shaking. This ketchup-and-mustard-coloured adobe bar may have sticky tables and the odour of a frat house on a Sunday morning, but trying a terremoto here (for just \u00a32) is something of a rite of passage.\u2022 Aillavill\u00fa 1030, lapiojera.cl. Open Mon-Sat midday-12.30am", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "Bars and clubs", "Food & drink", "South America holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel", "Life and style"], "title": "Top 10 bars in Santiago, Chile"},{"date": "2015-09-17T17:12:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile has been shaken by dozens of aftershocks after a powerful earthquake toppled buildings, killed at least 11 people and forced the evacuation of more than 1 million people.The magnitude 8.3 tremor on Wednesday night lasted for three minutes, and caused a series of tsunami surges \u2013 some as high as 4.5 metres (15ft) \u2013 which swamped towns along the Chilean coast. Tsunami warnings were triggered in Japan, New Zealand and Russia, as well as the US states of California and Hawaii. After a night in which at least 40 aftershocks hit the region \u2013 including one at magnitude 7 and seven at magnitude 6 or above \u2013 daylight revealed scenes of wreckage and ruin for hundreds of miles along the Chilean coastline.In the port city of Coquimbo fishing boats were tossed across streets, roads were blocked by rockslides and streets were filled with piles of devastated adobe houses.In Illapel, near the epicentre, residents appeared dazed at daybreak as they wandered the streets, searching for loved ones and awaiting the restoration of electricity and other basic services. Army troops were being rushed to the scene.Many of the townspeople had been forced to sleep on the ground outside their destroyed homes. \u201cI thought it was the end of the world and we were going to die,\u201d Manuel Moya told the Associated Press, as he stood next to the ruins of his home. \u201cEverything is a mess. It was a disaster, a total loss. Bottles and glasses shattered and the pipes in the bathroom and kitchen burst,\u201d restaurant owner Melisa Pi\u00f1ones told Reuters.Tongoy, a fishing village popular with tourists, was also hit hard by the first tsunami waves, which made landfall just 25 minutes after the initial earthquake. Several seaside shops and restaurants were completely destroyed.In the popular tourist town of Conc\u00f3n, dozens of coastal restaurants were flooded and nearby surf schools destroyed by the series of waves that flooded distinct areas of the coast. Makeshift altars and lit candles marked the spots where residents had died.The Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, began a tour of damaged areas in the town of La Serena, near Coquimbo. She had previously cancelled her participation in many of the nation\u2019s independence day celebrations scheduled for Friday.\u201cWe\u2019re going to have go on the ground to see what the damages are and see where help is needed,\u201d Bachelet said.The earthquake came at the beginning of a four-day national holiday and hundreds of thousands of Chileans had already travelled to the coast. But mass evacuations were largely orderly, as Chile\u2019s national emergency office has run repeated practice evacuations following the massive 8.8 earthquake in February 2010. That quake and the ensuing tsunami killed more than 500 people, destroyed 220,000 homes and washed away docks, riverfronts and seaside resorts.On Wednesday night, panic erupted in Coquimbo where an estimated 40,000 revelers were gathered to inaugurate the nation\u2019s largest independence day celebration late on Wednesday evening. The quake hit just as mayor Cornelio Andrade was on the podium and set to cut the ribbon. \u201cIt felt like the earth was splitting open,\u201d Andrade told reporters. \u201cThe women began to scream the names of their children who were playing. It was a stampede, everyone was trying to get out.\u201dChile\u2019s ministry of the interior and public security said 20 people have been injured, but phone networks remain down in parts of the country so the full extent of damage and injury is not yet known.Schools have been closed in several regions. The interior ministry\u2019s national office of emergency has urged people not to return to their homes until they are told it is safe to do so.The quake also sparked fears tsunamis could surge across the Pacific Ocean, with countries as far away Japan, New Zealand, Russia and the US states of California and Hawaii issuing warnings.A watch was issued for the California coast: \u201cA tsunami capable of producing strong currents or waves dangerous to persons in or very near the water is expected. The first wave may not be the largest.\u201dA tsunami advisory for Hawaii said a \u201cmajor tsunami\u201d was not expected but it warned of sea-level changes and strong currents.The New Zealand minister for civil defence, Nikki Kaye, urged east coast residents in the path of any potential tsunami to stay out of the the ocean, out of boats and off beaches.The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said waves reaching one to three metres above the tide level were possible in French Polynesia, and that waves reaching 0.3 to one metre above tide level were possible for some coasts of New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii, Mexico, Ecuador, Peru, Japan, New Caledonia, Samoa, Russia and other Pacific territories.The PTWC later downgraded its warnings for some areas, including Hawaii. \u201cHowever, sea-level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells arriving between five minutes and one hour could be ongoing.The power of the initial earthquake was such that it could be felt across swaths of South America.In the Chilean capital, Santiago, more than 230km (140 miles) from the epicentre of the quake, buildings swayed and thousands fled their homes to take refuge in the streets.Car alarms were set off in Buenos Aires \u2013 more than 1,100km (680 miles) away on the Atlantic side of the continent.Public buildings, including the campus of the University of Buenos Aires, were evacuated. High-rises in the neighbourhoods of Belgrano and Palermo swayed so much that many ran out into the streets. Other Argentinian cities including Rosario and Mendoza reported mass evacuations.Chile is one of the world\u2019s most earthquake-prone countries. Just off the coast, the Nazca tectonic plate plunges beneath the South American plate, pushing the towering Andes cordillera to ever-higher altitudes.", "tags": ["Chile", "Earthquakes", "World news", "Americas", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Aftershocks rattle Chile after earthquake as death toll rises"},{"date": "2015-09-17T09:49:41Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Eight people have been killed and 1 million evacuated from their homes after a magnitude 8.3 earthquake struck just off the coast of Chile, sending powerful waves flooding into its coastal cities. Coastlines on both sides of the Pacific had braced for possible tsunamis after the quake, although a tsunami alert originally issued for the entire Chilean coast was later lifted. Chile\u2019s ministry of the interior and public security said 20 people have been injured, but phone networks remain down in parts of the country so the full extent of damage and injury is not yet known.A tsunami hit the coastal Chilean city of Tongoy at about 8.20pm local time, a little more than 25 minutes after the earthquake. Pictures appeared to show the city of Conc\u00f3n, popular with tourists, being deluged by waves. Chile\u2019s President Michelle Bachelet spoke on national television, saying Tongoy and Coquimbo had been extensively flooded and damaged. She declared a catastrophe zone in those areas and mobilised the military to help civilians and prevent looting.\u201cOnce again we must confront a powerful blow from nature,\u201d Bachelet told the nation.Schools have been closed in several regions. The interior ministry\u2019s national office of emergency has urged people not to return to their homes until they are told it is safe to do so.The quake also sparked fears tsunamis could surge across the Pacific Ocean, with countries as far away Japan, New Zealand, Russia and the US states of California and Hawaii issuing warnings.A watch was issued for the California coast: \u201cA tsunami capable of producing strong currents or waves dangerous to persons in or very near the water is expected. The first wave may not be the largest.\u201dA tsunami advisory for Hawaii said a \u201cmajor tsunami\u201d was not expected but it warned of sea level changes and strong currents.The New Zealand minister for civil defence, Nikki Kaye, urged east coast residents in the path of any potential tsunami to stay out of the the ocean, out of boats and off beaches.The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said waves reaching one to three metres above the tide level were possible in French Polynesia, and that waves reaching 0.3 to one metre above tide level were possible for some coasts of New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii, Mexico, Ecuador, Peru, Japan, New Caledonia, Samoa, Russia and other Pacific nations. The PTWC later downgraded its warnings for some areas, including Hawaii. \u201cHowever, sea level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells arriving between five minutes and one hour could be ongoing.The power of the initial earthquake was such that it could be felt across swaths of South America.In the Chilean capital, Santiago, more than 230km from the epicentre of the quake, buildings swayed and thousands fled their homes to take refuge in the streets.Car alarms were set off in Buenos Aires \u2013 more than 1,100km away on the Atlantic side of the South American continent.Public buildings, including the campus of the University of Buenos Aires, were evacuated. High-rises in the neighbourhoods of Belgrano and Palermo swayed so much that many ran out into the streets. Other Argentinian cities including Rosario and Mendoza reported mass evacuations. Related: Terremoto en #Chile: compartimos tus experiencias \u2013 share your earthquake experiences #temblor A magnitude 8.8 quake in central Chile in 2010 and ensuing tsunami killed more than 500 people, destroyed 220,000 homes and washed away docks, riverfronts and seaside resorts.That quake released so much energy it shortened the Earth\u2019s day by a fraction of a second, by changing the planet\u2019s rotation.Chile is one of the world\u2019s most earthquake-prone countries in the world. Just off the coast, the Nazca tectonic plate plunges beneath the South American plate, pushing the towering Andes cordillera to ever-higher altitudes.The strongest earthquake recorded happened in Chile in 1960 when a magnitude 9.5 tremor killed more than 5,000 people.", "tags": ["Earthquakes", "Chile", "Americas", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news"], "title": "1 million evacuated as Chile hit by magnitude 8.3 earthquake"},{"date": "2015-09-17T03:31:50Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Si le ha afectado el terremoto, comparta sus fotos, v\u00eddeos e historias aqu\u00edUn poderoso terremoto de magnitud 8,3 ha golpeado la costa de Chile, causando varios muertos y heridos, la destrucci\u00f3n de edificios y la evacuaci\u00f3n de un mill\u00f3n de personas. Related: Chile earthquake: massive 8.3 magnitude tremor strikes Santiago \u2013 live updates La potencia del terremoto fue tal que forz\u00f3 una alerta de tsunami a lo largo de la costa pac\u00edfica, y el temblor se pudo sentir en diferentes zonas de Am\u00e9rica del Sud. Si usted se vio afectado por el terremoto, nos gustar\u00eda que compartiera su experiencia con nosotros. Para hacerlo, simplemente haga click en el bot\u00f3n azul marcado con \u201cContribute with GuardianWitness\u201d en esta p\u00e1gina. Estamos interesados en fotograf\u00edas y v\u00eddeos de las evacuaciones, inundaciones y da\u00f1os causados por el terremoto. Incluiremos una selecci\u00f3n de sus im\u00e1genes y v\u00eddeos como parte de la cobertura del terremoto en nuestra web.  Related: Earthquake in Chile: your GuardianWitness contributions If you\u2019ve been affected by the earthquake in Chile, we want to hear from youA powerful 8.3 magnitude earthquake has struck off the coast of Chile, causing multiple deaths and injuries, destruction of buildings and the evacuation of a million people.The power of the earthquake was such that it forced a tsunami watch alert across the Pacific Ocean, and could be felt across swathes of South America.If you are affected by the earthquake, we\u2019d like to hear from you. We\u2019re interested in photographs and videos of evacuations, earthquake damage and flooding. We\u2019ll include a selection of footage in our coverage on the site.You can also download the GuardianWitness app or look for our assignments in the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. If you\u2019re on Instagram you can contribute using #GuardianWitness", "tags": ["Chile", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news"], "title": "Terremoto en #Chile: comparta sus experiencias \u2013 share your earthquake experiences #temblor"},{"date": "2015-09-25T08:04:31Z", "country": "chile", "content": "When the Chilean city of Coquimbo was hit by a 4.5-metre tsunami wave on 16 September, the surge of water crushed a neighbourhood of small, independent fishing outfits. Nearly 200 boats were destroyed: some dragged out to sea, others piled onshore like driftwood or dumped inland, many blocks from the ocean. A river of water pushed debris and sand throughout a bustling section of the town\u2019s waterfront just as darkness was settling on the 150,000-person city. Nine people were killed in the Coquimbo region, and a further four elsewhere in Chile.So why did only 13 die in an quake measuring 8.4 on the Richter scale \u2013 the world\u2019s strongest earthquake to date this year \u2013 while far weaker earthquakes in Haiti and, more recently, Nepal, killed tens of thousands?Part of the answer lies inside a field hospital tent in Santiago, Chile\u2019s capital and largest city where, on Wednesday 24 September, huddled around plastic tables and squished against the walls of a military tent lit by fluorescent tubes, search and rescue teams from Peru, El Salvador, the United States and Spain take part in a previously scheduled rescue simulation known as Simex 2015. Sipping tepid coffee, they debate where to search with dogs, which collapsed building might possibly contain dead bodies and how best to rescue tsunami victims along the coast. Organised by the UN humanitarian affairs office and the International Search and Rescue Advisory Group [Insarag], the Simex meetings were launched in the wake of huge quakes in Armenia and Mexico. Today Insarag is a leading authority on best practices to organise urban search and rescue operations following earthquakes. The weeklong meeting in Santiago includes a full-scale emergency reaction to a simulated 9.0 earthquake hit with an epicentre in Santiago.\u201cThis is an exercise,\u201d says Ricardo Toro, a former army general now in charge of Chile\u2019s disaster relief agency, ONEMI. \u201cWe have a plan called \u2018Chile Prepares\u2019 of which the principal and most important part is evacuation exercises. Every year we \u2013 at a minimum \u2013 run six or seven evacuations of entire regions.\u201dWhy did only 13 Chileans die in an 8.4-magnitude earthquake while weaker quakes in Haiti and Nepal killed thousands?Describing the evacuations during the initial hours after last Wednesday\u2019s quake, Toro says: \u201cA million people were evacuated and that saved a lot of lives. Had we not had such an evacuation, there would have been many, many more deaths.\u201dToro knows first-hand the deadly nature of giant earthquakes. Under the command of the UN, he was stationed in Port au Prince in 2010 when the 7.7-magnitude earthquake destroyed the city. Thousands of poorly designed buildings, with little or no reinforced concrete, completely collapsed. Medical facilities and search and rescue teams were overwhelmed. Within a week, the death toll from the Haitian quake was estimated at more than 200,000 \u2013 including Maria Teresa Dowling, Toro\u2019s wife.\u201cI lost my wife and that gives me quite a bit of empathy with the people who suffer losses,\u201d he says. \u201cThat is why these prevention systems have to focus on saving lives.\u201cI think Haiti was the beginning. The rescue teams that arrived were not coordinated. They worried more about where the press was in order to get attention. Now it is a professional procedure, with protocols. In a disaster, improvisation is the worst.\u201d\u201cFive years ago, we never could have imagined having an exercise like this in Chile,\u201d says Christophe Schmachtel, a UN humanitarian affairs officer based in Geneva. \u201cIn 2010 [when Chile suffered another devastating earthquake], I had no focal points here. We didn\u2019t know who to call. \u201cOur way to inform the international community was to watch TV and then report to UN Agencies \u2026 It took us two or three days to get through and get official, direct information. The government of Chile did not have much information on how the international community was organised and worked. That has changed.\u201dIn the most recent earthquake, a new system of warnings was used to alert the population. Within minutes of the quake, downtown Coquimbo and its coastal areas were rocked by loud sirens. A convoy of ambulances, firefighters and police sought to accelerate the evacuation, as officers convinced reluctant homeowners to head for the hills. Mobile phones were targeted with a series of tsunami warning messages, urging residents to abandon the coastal areas.A million people were evacuated. Had we not had such an evacuation, there would have been many, many more deaths\u201cDuring this latest quake, I was on the phone with the [Chilean] government within 30 minutes \u2013 and then informing the international community that the government was under control and there was no need for international assistance,\u201d Schmachtel says. \u201cThe difference between being in a earthquake and being in a disaster is the level of preparation \u2013 and this begins with Chile\u2019s strict building codes.\u201dThe country\u2019s building codes require that all new buildings must be able to survive a 9.0-magnitude earthquake. The building can crack, tilt and even be declared unfit for future use \u2013 but it must not collapse. Discussing the 2010 earthquake, Felipe Espinoza, a Chilean firefighter, counts \u2013 on one hand \u2013 the multi-storey buildings destroyed. \u201cThe earthquake was 8.8 and there were 6,000 buildings in the affected area \u2013 yet only six were seriously damaged, and of those, only four had to be demolished.\u201dWalter Fonseca, chief of operations for Costa Rica\u2019s National Emergency Commission, says the crucial factor that kept the death toll so low this time around is not the building codes themselves, but their steady enforcement throughout Chile. No multi-storey buildings are thought to have collapsed in the most recent earthquake. \u201cThis shows the capacity and thoroughness of local [Chilean] municipal governments,\u201d says Fonseca. \u201cThose are the ones who are actually inspecting and approving the design and construction of buildings.\u201d Related: The rebuilding of Chile's Constituci\u00f3n: how a 'dead city' was brought back to life Schmachtel says Chile\u2019s earthquake response protocols went through a complete upgrade following the government\u2019s chaotic response to the 8.8-magnitude earthquake of February 2010. More than 500 people were killed, and fault lines in the government\u2019s communications network were exposed as different regions had no way to communicate with officials in Santiago. Furthermore, the government\u2019s refusal to issue a tsunami warning led to dozens of beachgoers being swept away by a series of massive tsunami waves. Four government officials were later charged with involuntary manslaughter.But there is another factor that has helped Chile to cope with powerful earthquakes \u2013 namely, the regularity of small-to-medium size quakes which do little damage, but serve to remind the public of the looming danger. So many earthquakes strike Chile that a popular national drink is called the Terremoto (earthquake), made from white wine, fernet, grenadine and pineapple ice cream, and a followup is known as the replica (aftershock).As part of the \u201cRing of Fire\u201d stretching all the way to Alaska and Japan, Chile is constantly being shaken. But it was also the site of the largest earthquake ever recorded \u2013 in the small, southern city of Valdivia in 1960. That 9.5-magnitude quake left an estimated 5,000 dead, and kindled a deep cultural appreciation for strict building codes.\u201cChile today has completely learned UN protocols and adapted them to local needs,\u201d Schmachtel says. \u201cChile has become a showcase. In our global meetings [on earthquake preparation], Chile is now the example.\u201dFollow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook to join the discussion", "tags": ["Cities", "World news", "Chile", "Chile holidays", "Americas", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "How did Chile manage to survive its recent earthquake virtually unscathed?"},{"date": "2015-09-17T11:41:12Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile lifted its tsunami warning on Thursday and Pacific islands experienced only minor waves, hours after a 8.3 magnitude earthquake had led to fears of massive swells. Related: 1 million evacuated as Chile hit by magnitude 8.3 earthquake \u201cThe tsunami warning is lifted for all national territory,\u201d the Chilean government\u2019s national emergency office said in a tweet. The Pacific Tsunami Warning Center (PTWC) had issued a threat message saying saying hazardous tsunami waves were forecast for some coasts. \u201cTsunami waves have been observed,\u201d it said in the latests update on Thursday.The PTWC said the first waves were arriving on the eastern town of Rikitea, on Mangareva island in French Polynesia, but they were only 28cm high. It was the early hours of the morning in Rikitea, meaning few people would be on the beaches.Much of the nation\u2019s population lives in low-lying coastal areas at risk of flooding and there were concerns waves could rise to between one and three metres. However, even that is small when compared to the 2011 quake in Japan in which waves reached 14-metres in height above sea level.Tsunami generated by M8.3 #earthquake from central Chile arriving in French Polynesia (Rikitea)In some areas, such as Hawaii, initial fears of a large tsunami were lowered, the PTWC said in a update.\u201cHowever, sea level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells might continue.On Chile\u2019s Easter Island, around 3,500km (2,174 miles) from the mainland, residents received a tsunami alert. One tourist hotel, the Puku Vai, said on Twitter that guests were safe.Our guests have all received information and instructions regarding #tsunami alert. We're in safety zone so your family or friends are safe.The tremor struck off the Chilean coast, about 232km north-west of the capital, Santiago. It hit about 8pm local time (11pm GMT). Seismologists predicted that waves would reach South Pacific islands between nine and 12 hours later. Waves would hit New Zealand, Australia and Japan between 12 and 24 hours after the quake.The Ministry of Civil Defence in New Zealand warned people in the coastal areas of Chatham Islands and the east coast, nearly 10,000km from Chile, to stay out of the water overnight.\u201cExpect unusually strong currents and unpredictable water flows near the shore,\u201d it said.The US National Tsunami Warning Center released a chart of how the earthquake energy might spread across the Pacific. It showed the waves would lose height over the huge expanse of the ocean. Related: Chile earthquake: one million people evacuated after 8.3 magnitude quake \u2013 rolling report On the Chilean mainland, waves of up to 4.5 metres were recorded at Conquimbo and two metres at Tongoy. The country\u2019s president, Michelle Bachelet, said both areas had been declared catastrophe zones and troops would be sent in to deter looting.In the Solomon Islands of the South Pacific, the local meteorological service said: \u201cAt this stage we don\u2019t know if a tsunami has actually been generated.\u201dThe Fiji Times quoted the country\u2019s government as saying the public should be on watch for the first wave to arrive at midnight local time. It advised \u201cno immediate action\u201d.\u201cThe Mineral Resources Department Seismology section has issued a tsunami watch and advisory a short time ago, warning residents in those areas to be on watch and get updates through the media,\u201d it said.A watch means a tsunami is possible, according to Chevy Chevalier, a meteorologist at the National Weather Service in Honolulu. \u201cA watch is for everybody to be aware of it, that it\u2019s a possibility,\u201d he said. \u201cA warning means it\u2019s happening right now or it\u2019s imminent.\u201dEight people have been reported killed in Chile\u2019s largest earthquake since the February 2010 tremor that killed more than 500. About 20 people have been reported injured so far and 1 million people have been evacuated from their homes.The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report ", "tags": ["Tsunamis", "South Pacific", "Vanuatu", "Fiji", "Solomon Islands", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Chile", "Hawaii", "US news", "Australia news", "New Zealand", "Michelle Bachelet", "California", "Americas"], "title": "Tsunami warning lifted after Chile earthquake"},{"date": "2015-07-03T12:27:29Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Santiago has never really had its moment in the spotlight. Overshadowed by flashier neighbours, such as Rio and Buenos Aires, it has traditionally been nothing more than an unavoidable stopover en route to somewhere more exciting: Patagonia, Easter Island, the Atacama desert. But, in recent years, this metropolis of seven million has established itself as a destination in its own right. No longer content to hide beneath the shadow of the Andes, it now has a number of vibrant cultural centres (such as the striking, copper-encased GAM, which specialises in promoting the performing arts and music), glittering skyscrapers, award-winning restaurants and fantastic bars. The latter of these focus on the things Chile does best: wine and pisco, the local brandy with a grassy colour and spicy-sweet taste. Add to the mix a forward-looking music scene, growing interest in high design and superb craft brews from Patagonia and you begin to see why Santiago is a city out to surprise.If Chile is known for one thing around the world it\u2019s wine. When a trip to one of the dozen wineries in the nearby Casablanca valley \u2013 or more than two-dozen wineries in the more famous Colchagua valley two hours south \u2013 doesn\u2019t fit in the schedule, BocaNariz in the trendy Lastarria neighbourhood is the next best thing. Santiago\u2019s newest and finest \u201cvinobar\u201d has the look and feel of a cosy wine library, with a massive wine menu and flights of wine (three samples) themed by region or style. Better still, it has well-trained, English-speaking staff and is one of the only places in town where premium-quality wine is available by the glass (from \u00a34). Scroll the menu for the daily selection of carm\u00e9n\u00e8re, Chile\u2019s signature grape that was, until 20 years ago, thought to be a variety of merlot.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Victorino Lastarria 276, bocanariz.cl. Open Mon-Wed midday-midnight, Thurs-Sat midday-12.30am, Sun 7pm-11pmA Santiago institution, this old-school favourite has three outposts across town that are equally heavy on character, with walls covered with vintage posters and Chilean memorabilia. For the best of the best, head to the original Manuel Montt location where the tables inside are as sought after as the ones on the patio outside (though, if you arrive early on \u201cgringo time\u201d, you won\u2019t need to queue). Liguria is a cross between a restaurant and a pub, and locals and tourists alike come for a traditional dinner (think razor clams doused in parmesan or crab casserole) and stay long into the night to enjoy live music and to chat over a bottle of cabernet sauvignon (from \u00a37.90). Call +562 2235 7914 to book.\u2022 Avenida Providencia 1373, Providencia, liguria.cl. Open Mon-Sat 11am-2amIt\u2019s best not to mention Peruvian pisco in affectionate terms while visiting Chile. Why? Because there is much sour feeling over who made South America\u2019s beloved brandy first (and who, today, distils the finest batch). Get the lowdown at Chipe Libre, a welcome addition to the Lastarria neighbourhood with checkered floors, wooden tables and an expansive garden patio. This self-described \u201crepublic of pisco\u201d not only boasts Chile\u2019s largest pisco menu but also knowledgeable staff eager to share the variations \u2013 and there are many \u2013 between the Peruvian and Chilean brandy. Order a flight of pisco (from \u00a33.45) or a round of pisco sours (from \u00a33.25 each) and decide for yourself which country\u2019s tipple tickles your fancy.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Victorino Lastarria 282, Facebook page. Open Mon-Wed 12.30pm-1am, Thurs-Sat 12.30pm-1.30am, closed SundaysOwned by Chile\u2019s top satirical magazine, The Clinic, and covered in its political cartoons, this infamous bar is where the intelligentsia comes to bicker over beers. It\u2019s also a great introduction to the political landscape, particularly for any left-leaning, socialist-minded, Chile-curious individuals. Bar The Clinic is one of the best places in town to sample some of the fantastic craft brews coming out of Chilean Patagonia, including Austral Calafate and Kunstmann Ar\u00e1ndano (both \u00a32.90). Or, if you prefer wine, the menu has four pages of Chilean varieties within its cheeky, tabloid layout, which mimics the tone of its parent magazine. Unlike most other bars in town, this place is open by 1pm and hopping soon after.\u2022 Monjitas 578, bartheclinic.cl. Open Mon-Wed 1pm-3am, Thurs 1pm-3.30am, Fri 1pm-4.30am, Sun 5pm-4.30amKy is an Asian-themed speakeasy that\u2019s behind a graffiti-tagged wall that you might otherwise mistake for the entrance to an abandoned building. Far from being neglected, however, what you\u2019ll find inside is an opulent funhouse with an eclectic interior design that could easily pass for the set of a Wong Kar-wai film (think 2046). Plush sofas, theatrical curtains and funky lighting from competing chandeliers give the place an aesthetic that serves as the perfect setting for fusion martinis such as Rozameltini (pisco, kaffir lime and fresh blueberry juice, \u00a38) or Mirotini (Grand Marnier, pisco, passion fruit and raspberry juice, \u00a34.80). Call ahead for a table (+562 2777 7245); Ky is no longer the secret it once was.\u2022 Avenida Per\u00fa 631, restobarky.cl. Open Tues-Sat 10pm-2amGin is not a liquor often found on menus in this pisco-loving country, but it\u2019s the raison d\u2019\u00eatre for one of the newest bars in Santiago\u2019s rapidly gentrifying Barrio Italia neighbourhood. Ruca Bar is a popular expat hangout and gin-lover\u2019s paradise, with 10 cocktails honouring the spirit that range in price from \u00a33.80-\u00a35. It\u2019s also notable for its menu of tapas such as Pulpo On The Rocks: octopus saut\u00e9ed in merk\u00e9n (an earthy Chilean spice), draped over charred black potatoes and served on a slate. Be sure to go early on Thursdays when Bombay Sapphire \u201cGin Tonics\u201d (no need to use the \u201cand\u201d here) are just a luca (\u00a31) from 6pm-10pm.\u2022 Condell 868, Providencia, rucabar.com. Open Tues-Thurs 6pm-1am, Fri 6pm-2.30am, Sat 1pm-2.30am, Sun 1pm-7pmTramonto Bar and Terrace tends to attract the upper echelon of Chilean society, thanks to its prime location on Alonso de C\u00f3rdova, Santiago\u2019s mini Madison Avenue. This hotel bar (it belongs to the Noi Vitacura) is the best of a growing number of rooftop options in Santiago and pairs the see-and-be-seen atmosphere of the exclusive Vitacura neighbourhood with stunning Andean views. The best time to go is sunset when you can order a pisco sour (\u00a34) and watch as the towering Andes light up in amber hues. When daylight fades, waiters bring out candles and the poolside terrace takes on a more romantic tone.\u2022 Avenida Nueva Costanera 3736, Vitacura, noihotels.com. Open Mon-Wed 11am-am, Thurs-Sat 11am-2am, Sun 11am-midnightThis audacious new addition to Santiago\u2019s restobar scene boasts \u201ccross-dress Peruvian gastronomy\u201d (aka Asian-Latin fusion) and a design style that can only really be described as Catholic kitsch. Opened in late 2014 by Gino Falcone, one of Chile\u2019s top interior designers, Sarita Colonia is home to a menagerie of religious artefacts such as stained-glass windows, wooden confessionals and a faux cemetery replete with a life-size statue of Sarita Colonia, the patron saint of all \u201cmisfits\u201d. It\u2019s not quite a gay bar \u2013 you\u2019ll find many of those on Bombero Nu\u00f1ez street in the adjacent Bellavista neighbourhood \u2013 but it\u2019s gay-friendly and attracts a mixed crowd. Go early to snag a seat on the rooftop patio for dinner (book on +562 2881 3937) and then stick around for cocktails, such as Hell\u2019s Sour or Coraz\u00f3n de Sarita (both \u00a36)\u2022 Loreto 40, Recoleta, saritacoloniarestoran.cl. Open Mon-Wed 8pm-2am, Thurs-Sat 8pm-4amSantiago has one of the most exciting music scenes on the continent and, with a roster of live acts most nights, the Opera-Catedral bar in the artsy Bellas Artes neighbourhood is the perfect spot for a sonic adventure. A popular cafe by day, this resto-bar kicks into full gear after dark when the lights dim flatteringly low and Chile\u2019s top talent in everything from indie folk to electropop takes to the stage. Piscolas (pisco and Coca-Cola, \u00a33.45) are a band-night favourite, but more adventurous drinkers will enjoy intriguing cocktails, such as De Rosa los Petalos (\u00a33.80), an infusion of pisco, lemon and rose petals, or Espumante Tropical (\u00a33.50), local sparkling wine topped with a maceration of lemon and mint. Above the bar is an atmospheric rooftop terrace. Expect a cover of \u00a37 to enter on Friday and Saturday nights.\u2022 Jos\u00e9 Miguel de la Barra Esquina Merced, operacatedral.cl. Open Mon-Thurs 12.30pm-3am, Fri-Sat 12.30pm-5amYou can\u2019t leave Santiago without trying Chile\u2019s most patriotic drink, and what better place to tackle a terremoto than one of the city\u2019s oldest and most beloved pic\u00e1s (dive bars): La Piojera. Typically reserved for Independence Day celebrations, a terremoto is a sort of wine shake that is more dessert than drink with pineapple ice-cream, pipe\u00f1o (a sweet white wine), and fernet (a bitter). Terremoto translates to earthquake in Spanish, and the love-it-or-hate-it mouth-freezer may very well leave you shaking. This ketchup-and-mustard-coloured adobe bar may have sticky tables and the odour of a frat house on a Sunday morning, but trying a terremoto here (for just \u00a32) is something of a rite of passage.\u2022 Aillavill\u00fa 1030, lapiojera.cl. Open Mon-Sat midday-12.30am", "tags": ["Chile holidays", "Bars and clubs", "Food & drink", "South America holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel", "Life and style"], "title": "Top 10 bars in Santiago, Chile"},{"date": "2015-09-17T17:12:47Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile has been shaken by dozens of aftershocks after a powerful earthquake toppled buildings, killed at least 11 people and forced the evacuation of more than 1 million people.The magnitude 8.3 tremor on Wednesday night lasted for three minutes, and caused a series of tsunami surges \u2013 some as high as 4.5 metres (15ft) \u2013 which swamped towns along the Chilean coast. Tsunami warnings were triggered in Japan, New Zealand and Russia, as well as the US states of California and Hawaii. After a night in which at least 40 aftershocks hit the region \u2013 including one at magnitude 7 and seven at magnitude 6 or above \u2013 daylight revealed scenes of wreckage and ruin for hundreds of miles along the Chilean coastline.In the port city of Coquimbo fishing boats were tossed across streets, roads were blocked by rockslides and streets were filled with piles of devastated adobe houses.In Illapel, near the epicentre, residents appeared dazed at daybreak as they wandered the streets, searching for loved ones and awaiting the restoration of electricity and other basic services. Army troops were being rushed to the scene.Many of the townspeople had been forced to sleep on the ground outside their destroyed homes. \u201cI thought it was the end of the world and we were going to die,\u201d Manuel Moya told the Associated Press, as he stood next to the ruins of his home. \u201cEverything is a mess. It was a disaster, a total loss. Bottles and glasses shattered and the pipes in the bathroom and kitchen burst,\u201d restaurant owner Melisa Pi\u00f1ones told Reuters.Tongoy, a fishing village popular with tourists, was also hit hard by the first tsunami waves, which made landfall just 25 minutes after the initial earthquake. Several seaside shops and restaurants were completely destroyed.In the popular tourist town of Conc\u00f3n, dozens of coastal restaurants were flooded and nearby surf schools destroyed by the series of waves that flooded distinct areas of the coast. Makeshift altars and lit candles marked the spots where residents had died.The Chilean president, Michelle Bachelet, began a tour of damaged areas in the town of La Serena, near Coquimbo. She had previously cancelled her participation in many of the nation\u2019s independence day celebrations scheduled for Friday.\u201cWe\u2019re going to have go on the ground to see what the damages are and see where help is needed,\u201d Bachelet said.The earthquake came at the beginning of a four-day national holiday and hundreds of thousands of Chileans had already travelled to the coast. But mass evacuations were largely orderly, as Chile\u2019s national emergency office has run repeated practice evacuations following the massive 8.8 earthquake in February 2010. That quake and the ensuing tsunami killed more than 500 people, destroyed 220,000 homes and washed away docks, riverfronts and seaside resorts.On Wednesday night, panic erupted in Coquimbo where an estimated 40,000 revelers were gathered to inaugurate the nation\u2019s largest independence day celebration late on Wednesday evening. The quake hit just as mayor Cornelio Andrade was on the podium and set to cut the ribbon. \u201cIt felt like the earth was splitting open,\u201d Andrade told reporters. \u201cThe women began to scream the names of their children who were playing. It was a stampede, everyone was trying to get out.\u201dChile\u2019s ministry of the interior and public security said 20 people have been injured, but phone networks remain down in parts of the country so the full extent of damage and injury is not yet known.Schools have been closed in several regions. The interior ministry\u2019s national office of emergency has urged people not to return to their homes until they are told it is safe to do so.The quake also sparked fears tsunamis could surge across the Pacific Ocean, with countries as far away Japan, New Zealand, Russia and the US states of California and Hawaii issuing warnings.A watch was issued for the California coast: \u201cA tsunami capable of producing strong currents or waves dangerous to persons in or very near the water is expected. The first wave may not be the largest.\u201dA tsunami advisory for Hawaii said a \u201cmajor tsunami\u201d was not expected but it warned of sea-level changes and strong currents.The New Zealand minister for civil defence, Nikki Kaye, urged east coast residents in the path of any potential tsunami to stay out of the the ocean, out of boats and off beaches.The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said waves reaching one to three metres above the tide level were possible in French Polynesia, and that waves reaching 0.3 to one metre above tide level were possible for some coasts of New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii, Mexico, Ecuador, Peru, Japan, New Caledonia, Samoa, Russia and other Pacific territories.The PTWC later downgraded its warnings for some areas, including Hawaii. \u201cHowever, sea-level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells arriving between five minutes and one hour could be ongoing.The power of the initial earthquake was such that it could be felt across swaths of South America.In the Chilean capital, Santiago, more than 230km (140 miles) from the epicentre of the quake, buildings swayed and thousands fled their homes to take refuge in the streets.Car alarms were set off in Buenos Aires \u2013 more than 1,100km (680 miles) away on the Atlantic side of the continent.Public buildings, including the campus of the University of Buenos Aires, were evacuated. High-rises in the neighbourhoods of Belgrano and Palermo swayed so much that many ran out into the streets. Other Argentinian cities including Rosario and Mendoza reported mass evacuations.Chile is one of the world\u2019s most earthquake-prone countries. Just off the coast, the Nazca tectonic plate plunges beneath the South American plate, pushing the towering Andes cordillera to ever-higher altitudes.", "tags": ["Chile", "Earthquakes", "World news", "Americas", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Aftershocks rattle Chile after earthquake as death toll rises"},{"date": "2015-09-17T09:49:41Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Eight people have been killed and 1 million evacuated from their homes after a magnitude 8.3 earthquake struck just off the coast of Chile, sending powerful waves flooding into its coastal cities. Coastlines on both sides of the Pacific had braced for possible tsunamis after the quake, although a tsunami alert originally issued for the entire Chilean coast was later lifted. Chile\u2019s ministry of the interior and public security said 20 people have been injured, but phone networks remain down in parts of the country so the full extent of damage and injury is not yet known.A tsunami hit the coastal Chilean city of Tongoy at about 8.20pm local time, a little more than 25 minutes after the earthquake. Pictures appeared to show the city of Conc\u00f3n, popular with tourists, being deluged by waves. Chile\u2019s President Michelle Bachelet spoke on national television, saying Tongoy and Coquimbo had been extensively flooded and damaged. She declared a catastrophe zone in those areas and mobilised the military to help civilians and prevent looting.\u201cOnce again we must confront a powerful blow from nature,\u201d Bachelet told the nation.Schools have been closed in several regions. The interior ministry\u2019s national office of emergency has urged people not to return to their homes until they are told it is safe to do so.The quake also sparked fears tsunamis could surge across the Pacific Ocean, with countries as far away Japan, New Zealand, Russia and the US states of California and Hawaii issuing warnings.A watch was issued for the California coast: \u201cA tsunami capable of producing strong currents or waves dangerous to persons in or very near the water is expected. The first wave may not be the largest.\u201dA tsunami advisory for Hawaii said a \u201cmajor tsunami\u201d was not expected but it warned of sea level changes and strong currents.The New Zealand minister for civil defence, Nikki Kaye, urged east coast residents in the path of any potential tsunami to stay out of the the ocean, out of boats and off beaches.The Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said waves reaching one to three metres above the tide level were possible in French Polynesia, and that waves reaching 0.3 to one metre above tide level were possible for some coasts of New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii, Mexico, Ecuador, Peru, Japan, New Caledonia, Samoa, Russia and other Pacific nations. The PTWC later downgraded its warnings for some areas, including Hawaii. \u201cHowever, sea level changes and strong currents may occur along all coasts,\u201d it said, warning that larges swells arriving between five minutes and one hour could be ongoing.The power of the initial earthquake was such that it could be felt across swaths of South America.In the Chilean capital, Santiago, more than 230km from the epicentre of the quake, buildings swayed and thousands fled their homes to take refuge in the streets.Car alarms were set off in Buenos Aires \u2013 more than 1,100km away on the Atlantic side of the South American continent.Public buildings, including the campus of the University of Buenos Aires, were evacuated. High-rises in the neighbourhoods of Belgrano and Palermo swayed so much that many ran out into the streets. Other Argentinian cities including Rosario and Mendoza reported mass evacuations. Related: Terremoto en #Chile: compartimos tus experiencias \u2013 share your earthquake experiences #temblor A magnitude 8.8 quake in central Chile in 2010 and ensuing tsunami killed more than 500 people, destroyed 220,000 homes and washed away docks, riverfronts and seaside resorts.That quake released so much energy it shortened the Earth\u2019s day by a fraction of a second, by changing the planet\u2019s rotation.Chile is one of the world\u2019s most earthquake-prone countries in the world. Just off the coast, the Nazca tectonic plate plunges beneath the South American plate, pushing the towering Andes cordillera to ever-higher altitudes.The strongest earthquake recorded happened in Chile in 1960 when a magnitude 9.5 tremor killed more than 5,000 people.", "tags": ["Earthquakes", "Chile", "Americas", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news"], "title": "1 million evacuated as Chile hit by magnitude 8.3 earthquake"},{"date": "2015-09-17T03:31:50Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Si le ha afectado el terremoto, comparta sus fotos, v\u00eddeos e historias aqu\u00edUn poderoso terremoto de magnitud 8,3 ha golpeado la costa de Chile, causando varios muertos y heridos, la destrucci\u00f3n de edificios y la evacuaci\u00f3n de un mill\u00f3n de personas. Related: Chile earthquake: massive 8.3 magnitude tremor strikes Santiago \u2013 live updates La potencia del terremoto fue tal que forz\u00f3 una alerta de tsunami a lo largo de la costa pac\u00edfica, y el temblor se pudo sentir en diferentes zonas de Am\u00e9rica del Sud. Si usted se vio afectado por el terremoto, nos gustar\u00eda que compartiera su experiencia con nosotros. Para hacerlo, simplemente haga click en el bot\u00f3n azul marcado con \u201cContribute with GuardianWitness\u201d en esta p\u00e1gina. Estamos interesados en fotograf\u00edas y v\u00eddeos de las evacuaciones, inundaciones y da\u00f1os causados por el terremoto. Incluiremos una selecci\u00f3n de sus im\u00e1genes y v\u00eddeos como parte de la cobertura del terremoto en nuestra web.  Related: Earthquake in Chile: your GuardianWitness contributions If you\u2019ve been affected by the earthquake in Chile, we want to hear from youA powerful 8.3 magnitude earthquake has struck off the coast of Chile, causing multiple deaths and injuries, destruction of buildings and the evacuation of a million people.The power of the earthquake was such that it forced a tsunami watch alert across the Pacific Ocean, and could be felt across swathes of South America.If you are affected by the earthquake, we\u2019d like to hear from you. We\u2019re interested in photographs and videos of evacuations, earthquake damage and flooding. We\u2019ll include a selection of footage in our coverage on the site.You can also download the GuardianWitness app or look for our assignments in the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. If you\u2019re on Instagram you can contribute using #GuardianWitness", "tags": ["Chile", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news"], "title": "Terremoto en #Chile: comparta sus experiencias \u2013 share your earthquake experiences #temblor"},{"date": "2015-09-25T08:04:31Z", "country": "chile", "content": "When the Chilean city of Coquimbo was hit by a 4.5-metre tsunami wave on 16 September, the surge of water crushed a neighbourhood of small, independent fishing outfits. Nearly 200 boats were destroyed: some dragged out to sea, others piled onshore like driftwood or dumped inland, many blocks from the ocean. A river of water pushed debris and sand throughout a bustling section of the town\u2019s waterfront just as darkness was settling on the 150,000-person city. Nine people were killed in the Coquimbo region, and a further four elsewhere in Chile.So why did only 13 die in an quake measuring 8.4 on the Richter scale \u2013 the world\u2019s strongest earthquake to date this year \u2013 while far weaker earthquakes in Haiti and, more recently, Nepal, killed tens of thousands?Part of the answer lies inside a field hospital tent in Santiago, Chile\u2019s capital and largest city where, on Wednesday 24 September, huddled around plastic tables and squished against the walls of a military tent lit by fluorescent tubes, search and rescue teams from Peru, El Salvador, the United States and Spain take part in a previously scheduled rescue simulation known as Simex 2015. Sipping tepid coffee, they debate where to search with dogs, which collapsed building might possibly contain dead bodies and how best to rescue tsunami victims along the coast. Organised by the UN humanitarian affairs office and the International Search and Rescue Advisory Group [Insarag], the Simex meetings were launched in the wake of huge quakes in Armenia and Mexico. Today Insarag is a leading authority on best practices to organise urban search and rescue operations following earthquakes. The weeklong meeting in Santiago includes a full-scale emergency reaction to a simulated 9.0 earthquake hit with an epicentre in Santiago.\u201cThis is an exercise,\u201d says Ricardo Toro, a former army general now in charge of Chile\u2019s disaster relief agency, ONEMI. \u201cWe have a plan called \u2018Chile Prepares\u2019 of which the principal and most important part is evacuation exercises. Every year we \u2013 at a minimum \u2013 run six or seven evacuations of entire regions.\u201dWhy did only 13 Chileans die in an 8.4-magnitude earthquake while weaker quakes in Haiti and Nepal killed thousands?Describing the evacuations during the initial hours after last Wednesday\u2019s quake, Toro says: \u201cA million people were evacuated and that saved a lot of lives. Had we not had such an evacuation, there would have been many, many more deaths.\u201dToro knows first-hand the deadly nature of giant earthquakes. Under the command of the UN, he was stationed in Port au Prince in 2010 when the 7.7-magnitude earthquake destroyed the city. Thousands of poorly designed buildings, with little or no reinforced concrete, completely collapsed. Medical facilities and search and rescue teams were overwhelmed. Within a week, the death toll from the Haitian quake was estimated at more than 200,000 \u2013 including Maria Teresa Dowling, Toro\u2019s wife.\u201cI lost my wife and that gives me quite a bit of empathy with the people who suffer losses,\u201d he says. \u201cThat is why these prevention systems have to focus on saving lives.\u201cI think Haiti was the beginning. The rescue teams that arrived were not coordinated. They worried more about where the press was in order to get attention. Now it is a professional procedure, with protocols. In a disaster, improvisation is the worst.\u201d\u201cFive years ago, we never could have imagined having an exercise like this in Chile,\u201d says Christophe Schmachtel, a UN humanitarian affairs officer based in Geneva. \u201cIn 2010 [when Chile suffered another devastating earthquake], I had no focal points here. We didn\u2019t know who to call. \u201cOur way to inform the international community was to watch TV and then report to UN Agencies \u2026 It took us two or three days to get through and get official, direct information. The government of Chile did not have much information on how the international community was organised and worked. That has changed.\u201dIn the most recent earthquake, a new system of warnings was used to alert the population. Within minutes of the quake, downtown Coquimbo and its coastal areas were rocked by loud sirens. A convoy of ambulances, firefighters and police sought to accelerate the evacuation, as officers convinced reluctant homeowners to head for the hills. Mobile phones were targeted with a series of tsunami warning messages, urging residents to abandon the coastal areas.A million people were evacuated. Had we not had such an evacuation, there would have been many, many more deaths\u201cDuring this latest quake, I was on the phone with the [Chilean] government within 30 minutes \u2013 and then informing the international community that the government was under control and there was no need for international assistance,\u201d Schmachtel says. \u201cThe difference between being in a earthquake and being in a disaster is the level of preparation \u2013 and this begins with Chile\u2019s strict building codes.\u201dThe country\u2019s building codes require that all new buildings must be able to survive a 9.0-magnitude earthquake. The building can crack, tilt and even be declared unfit for future use \u2013 but it must not collapse. Discussing the 2010 earthquake, Felipe Espinoza, a Chilean firefighter, counts \u2013 on one hand \u2013 the multi-storey buildings destroyed. \u201cThe earthquake was 8.8 and there were 6,000 buildings in the affected area \u2013 yet only six were seriously damaged, and of those, only four had to be demolished.\u201dWalter Fonseca, chief of operations for Costa Rica\u2019s National Emergency Commission, says the crucial factor that kept the death toll so low this time around is not the building codes themselves, but their steady enforcement throughout Chile. No multi-storey buildings are thought to have collapsed in the most recent earthquake. \u201cThis shows the capacity and thoroughness of local [Chilean] municipal governments,\u201d says Fonseca. \u201cThose are the ones who are actually inspecting and approving the design and construction of buildings.\u201d Related: The rebuilding of Chile's Constituci\u00f3n: how a 'dead city' was brought back to life Schmachtel says Chile\u2019s earthquake response protocols went through a complete upgrade following the government\u2019s chaotic response to the 8.8-magnitude earthquake of February 2010. More than 500 people were killed, and fault lines in the government\u2019s communications network were exposed as different regions had no way to communicate with officials in Santiago. Furthermore, the government\u2019s refusal to issue a tsunami warning led to dozens of beachgoers being swept away by a series of massive tsunami waves. Four government officials were later charged with involuntary manslaughter.But there is another factor that has helped Chile to cope with powerful earthquakes \u2013 namely, the regularity of small-to-medium size quakes which do little damage, but serve to remind the public of the looming danger. So many earthquakes strike Chile that a popular national drink is called the Terremoto (earthquake), made from white wine, fernet, grenadine and pineapple ice cream, and a followup is known as the replica (aftershock).As part of the \u201cRing of Fire\u201d stretching all the way to Alaska and Japan, Chile is constantly being shaken. But it was also the site of the largest earthquake ever recorded \u2013 in the small, southern city of Valdivia in 1960. That 9.5-magnitude quake left an estimated 5,000 dead, and kindled a deep cultural appreciation for strict building codes.\u201cChile today has completely learned UN protocols and adapted them to local needs,\u201d Schmachtel says. \u201cChile has become a showcase. In our global meetings [on earthquake preparation], Chile is now the example.\u201dFollow Guardian Cities on Twitter and Facebook to join the discussion", "tags": ["Cities", "World news", "Chile", "Chile holidays", "Americas", "Earthquakes", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "How did Chile manage to survive its recent earthquake virtually unscathed?"},{"date": "2015-09-17T10:07:27Z", "country": "chile", "content": "\n\n11.07am BST\n11:07\n\nI\u2019m closing the live blog while we await further news. You can find all the information about last night\u2019s magnitude 8.3 earthquake in Chile, as well as any further alerts, in our main news story below. Related: A million people evacuated as magnitude 8.3 earthquake hits Chile If you\u2019re one of the millions of people who have been affected by the earthquake, we\u2019d still like to hear from you via Guardian Witness. I\u2019ll reopen this blog if there are any major developments. \n\n10.33am BST\n10:33\n\nAtenci\u00f3n, se levanta alerta de tsunami en el territorio nacional.\n\n10.16am BST\n10:16\n\nAn aftershock with a magnitude of 4.7 occurred near General Santos, Mindanao, Philippines some 20 minutes ago, according to a Google public alert. There have been approximately 15 other aftershocks since the first earthquake struck Chile, the locations for which can be viewed on this map.The US Geological Survey has further information about the Philippines quake:Time2015-09-17 08:34:52 (UTC)2015-09-17 09:34:52 (GMT)Times in other timezonesNearby Cities38km (24mi) SSW of Sarangani, Philippines82km (51mi) S of Glan, Philippines97km (60mi) S of Malapatan, Philippines98km (61mi) SSW of Caburan, Philippines1043km (648mi) WSW of Koror Town, PalauUpdated\nat 10.41am BST\n\n\n9.53am BST\n09:53\n\nAtenci\u00f3n: se mantiene alerta de tsunami s\u00f3lo en las regiones de Atacama y Coquimbo.\n\n9.49am BST\n09:49\n\nThe Telegraph reports that operations were suspended at two major copper mines operated by Codelco and UK-listed Antofagasta after the earthquake struck Chile.The closure of the mines, which generate an annual capacity of more than 600,000 tonnes, drove copper prices on the London Metal Exchange to two-month highs in early Asian trading as worries about supply disruptions offset lingering concerns about demand from China amid copper\u2019s longest rout in years.\n\n9.44am BST\n09:44\n\nIf you are based in affected areas, a new \u201csafety check\u201d tool on Facebook allows you to let your friends know you are safe.Muy bueno! >> Tus amigos est\u00e1n a salvo tras el terremoto, Facebook lo confirma http://t.co/nixURxAGHK v\u00eda @el_pais pic.twitter.com/UXsos9ICa7Updated\nat 9.46am BST\n\n\n9.36am BST\n09:36\n\nSi estas afectada de el terremoto en Chile, nos gustar\u00eda saber de usted. If you\u2019ve been affected by the earthquake in Chile, we want to hear from you.We\u2019re interested in photographs and videos of evacuations, earthquake damage and flooding. We\u2019ll include a selection of footage in our coverage on the site. You can also download the GuardianWitness app or look for our assignments in the Guardian app and search for \u2018GuardianWitness assignments\u2019 \u2013 and if you add it to the homepage \u2013 you can keep up with all our assignments. If you\u2019re on Instagram you can contribute using #GuardianWitness.\n\n9.32am BST\n09:32\n\nWe have another eyewitness account from Chile, this time from Sumit Kaul, who was in Santiago when the initial earthquake struck.I was in an open area on the ground, in Santiago when the initial earthquake stuck. It was so strong that I could barely stand on the ground and saw buildings around me sway. It was very long as well, and I felt as if the ground itself would break apart. Till now, at around 5:30 AM, there have been more than 30 after shocks.Sent via Guardian Witness By Sumit Kaul  17 September 2015, 8:41 \n\n9.28am BST\n09:28\n\nWatch another video of the moment the quake struck Chile below.\n\n9.22am BST\n09:22\n\nThe beaches in Orange County, California will be closed as of 4am due to high waves.#OCSDPIO: Tsunami Advisory - NO EVACUATION ORDERS. Beaches, harbors, piers & marinas CLOSED AT 4am @OrangeCountyEOC pic.twitter.com/3pEd5IcfJg\n\n9.02am BST\n09:02\n\nThis map shows the areas that have been affected by the first reports of flooding.", "tags": ["Chile", "World news", "Americas", "Earthquakes", "Tsunamis", "Natural disasters and extreme weather"], "title": "Chile earthquake: one million people evacuated after 8.3 magnitude quake \u2013 as it happened"},{"date": "2015-12-30T14:22:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean company AccuHealth, a pioneer in virtual clinical hospitals, has joined the Business Call to Action (BCtA) with a patient-centric tele-monitoring service designed to improve the health and livelihoods of chronically ill patients with value-added medical care at an affordable cost. BCtA is a global initiative that encourages companies to fight poverty through inclusive business models. It is supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and other international organisations.AccuHealth\u2019s inclusive business model aims to provide patients diagnosed with non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and their families with a better quality of life by combining an evidence-based telehealth monitoring service with big data, predictive modelling and data-mining. It allows hospitals and clinics to improve bed rotation, optimise patient control and increase the geographical coverage of specialists. At the same time, it allows insurance companies to better manage their clients\u2019 health needs, reducing the incidence of medical emergencies and containing costs. Related: How to leverage low-carbon economies to create prosperity By 2020, AccuHealth aims to serve 200,000 chronically ill patients living at the base of the economic pyramid (BoP) in Chile who rely on the country\u2019s public health system. By that time, Accuhealth aims to extend its operations to 500,000 patients in Mexico and 300,000 in Colombia. In 2016, Chile will also introduce a free, preventative-health service intended to empower 1.6 million BoP patients and their families to better manage their health by 2020.\u201cAccuHealth takes pride in being recognised as an industry leader. Our innovative win-win-win business model provides vital, accessible information to medical teams, reduces costs for health insurers and offers poor patients a better quality of life,\u201d said Xavier Urtubey, AccuHealth\u2019s chief executive officer. \u201cPeople at the BoP are most in need of our proactive, preventative tele-monitoring service and we are pleased to be recognised by the Business Call to Action for this vital work.\u201dHealth expenditures in Chile total $20bn (\u00a313.5bn) or 7.7% of GDP. Demand for quality healthcare has grown quickly among the poorest Chileans as the result of a pandemic in non-communicable diseases (NCDs), particularly those caused by being overweight and obese, which affect 70% of women and more than half of men. Expenses related to NCD complications, such as amputations caused by diabetes and retinopathy blindness, impact household incomes along with a loss of productivity. However, studies have shown that NCD patients who receive early and adequate medical attention can enjoy the same quality of life as healthy people.After a series of pilots, AccuHealth began attending to 2,000 NCD patients served by the national health insurance programme (FONASA) who were grappling with diabetes and hypertension \u2013 more than 40% of them were low-income patients. At its launch, FONASA\u2019s director projected that if the programme succeeded, it would be expanded to the rest of the public sector\u2019s NCD population. Positive results have lead AccuHealth\u2019s management to propose an expansion plan both within Chile and to Colombia and Mexico. Related: New report highlights how business can support sustainable development goals AccuHealth is also launching a free preventive service, which leverages tele-monitoring technology to involve patients\u2019 family and friends support networks while establishing a healthcare focal point to support the entire network efforts.AccuHealth\u2019s remote monitoring is based on medical evidence and patients\u2019 active involvement: it anticipates disease-related events and treats them according to each patient\u2019s unique health profile, diagnosis and environment, promoting a better quality of life. This model focuses on transferring disease management to patients and providing 24/7 support in crises.\u201cGood health and wellbeing is vital to the social and economic development of the world\u2019s poorest people and AccuHealth\u2019s inclusive business model is an example of how the private sector can successfully address those needs,\u201d said Sahba Sobhani, BCtA\u2019s acting manager. \u201cWe are pleased to welcome AccuHealth to BCtA and look forward to their continued growth and development impact.\u201dFor further information:Business Call to Action: Jeanne Finestone at jeanne.finestone@undp.orgAccuHealth: Xavier Urtubey at xurtubey@accuhealth.clContent on this page is paid for and provided by Business Call to Action, sponsor of the role of business in development hub", "tags": ["business call to action partner zone"], "title": "Improving lives and livelihoods with better healthcare management in Chile"},{"date": "2015-12-30T14:22:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean company AccuHealth, a pioneer in virtual clinical hospitals, has joined the Business Call to Action (BCtA) with a patient-centric tele-monitoring service designed to improve the health and livelihoods of chronically ill patients with value-added medical care at an affordable cost. BCtA is a global initiative that encourages companies to fight poverty through inclusive business models. It is supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and other international organisations.AccuHealth\u2019s inclusive business model aims to provide patients diagnosed with non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and their families with a better quality of life by combining an evidence-based telehealth monitoring service with big data, predictive modelling and data-mining. It allows hospitals and clinics to improve bed rotation, optimise patient control and increase the geographical coverage of specialists. At the same time, it allows insurance companies to better manage their clients\u2019 health needs, reducing the incidence of medical emergencies and containing costs. Related: How to leverage low-carbon economies to create prosperity By 2020, AccuHealth aims to serve 200,000 chronically ill patients living at the base of the economic pyramid (BoP) in Chile who rely on the country\u2019s public health system. By that time, Accuhealth aims to extend its operations to 500,000 patients in Mexico and 300,000 in Colombia. In 2016, Chile will also introduce a free, preventative-health service intended to empower 1.6 million BoP patients and their families to better manage their health by 2020.\u201cAccuHealth takes pride in being recognised as an industry leader. Our innovative win-win-win business model provides vital, accessible information to medical teams, reduces costs for health insurers and offers poor patients a better quality of life,\u201d said Xavier Urtubey, AccuHealth\u2019s chief executive officer. \u201cPeople at the BoP are most in need of our proactive, preventative tele-monitoring service and we are pleased to be recognised by the Business Call to Action for this vital work.\u201dHealth expenditures in Chile total $20bn (\u00a313.5bn) or 7.7% of GDP. Demand for quality healthcare has grown quickly among the poorest Chileans as the result of a pandemic in non-communicable diseases (NCDs), particularly those caused by being overweight and obese, which affect 70% of women and more than half of men. Expenses related to NCD complications, such as amputations caused by diabetes and retinopathy blindness, impact household incomes along with a loss of productivity. However, studies have shown that NCD patients who receive early and adequate medical attention can enjoy the same quality of life as healthy people.After a series of pilots, AccuHealth began attending to 2,000 NCD patients served by the national health insurance programme (FONASA) who were grappling with diabetes and hypertension \u2013 more than 40% of them were low-income patients. At its launch, FONASA\u2019s director projected that if the programme succeeded, it would be expanded to the rest of the public sector\u2019s NCD population. Positive results have lead AccuHealth\u2019s management to propose an expansion plan both within Chile and to Colombia and Mexico. Related: New report highlights how business can support sustainable development goals AccuHealth is also launching a free preventive service, which leverages tele-monitoring technology to involve patients\u2019 family and friends support networks while establishing a healthcare focal point to support the entire network efforts.AccuHealth\u2019s remote monitoring is based on medical evidence and patients\u2019 active involvement: it anticipates disease-related events and treats them according to each patient\u2019s unique health profile, diagnosis and environment, promoting a better quality of life. This model focuses on transferring disease management to patients and providing 24/7 support in crises.\u201cGood health and wellbeing is vital to the social and economic development of the world\u2019s poorest people and AccuHealth\u2019s inclusive business model is an example of how the private sector can successfully address those needs,\u201d said Sahba Sobhani, BCtA\u2019s acting manager. \u201cWe are pleased to welcome AccuHealth to BCtA and look forward to their continued growth and development impact.\u201dFor further information:Business Call to Action: Jeanne Finestone at jeanne.finestone@undp.orgAccuHealth: Xavier Urtubey at xurtubey@accuhealth.clContent on this page is paid for and provided by Business Call to Action, sponsor of the role of business in development hub", "tags": ["business call to action partner zone"], "title": "Improving lives and livelihoods with better healthcare management in Chile"},{"date": "2015-12-09T04:12:31Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Douglas Tompkins, co-founder of the North Face outdoor company who poured millions into conservation, has died after falling into near-freezing waters during a kayak accident in southern Chile.Tompkins, 72, was taken with acute hypothermia to a hospital in Coyhaique after high winds flipped his adventure kayak during a trip across Lake General Carrera in Patagonia on Tuesday, reports said. He died about six hours after arriving at hospital in the regional capital. Related: Patagonia\u2019s controversial new national park The pioneering clothing and equipment designer, who also co-founded the Esprit apparel brand, had for the last quarter of a century spent millions of dollars financing national parks. He and wife Kristine saved an estimated two million acres of pristine South American ecosystems.In 1989 Tompkins abandoned his wealthy corporate lifestyle and estate in San Francisco as he moved to the wilds of Patagonia. Spending months hiking, kayaking and exploring the southern rainforests, Tompkins adopted the values of the deep ecology movement and commenced a determined conservation battle. Beginning in Chile and then in Argentina, he campaigned with coalitions of environmental activists as he battled to stop developers churning through pristine forests, wetlands and coastal prairies.Tompkins was regularly harassed by the Chilean government and clashed with business interests as he sought to limit what he saw as environmentally destructive industries including salmon farming and logging. However, Sebasti\u00e1n Pin\u00e9ra \u2013 a self-made billionaire and president of Chile from 2010 to 2014 \u2013 followed Tompkins\u2019s example by buying up a huge portion of Chiloe island and turning it into a showcase for environmental conservation. Unlike previous Chilean presidents, Pin\u00e9ra lauded Tompkins for his efforts.In one of his final interviews, published last month in Paula, a Chilean magazine, Tompkins was asked about his legacy. \u201cPeople will walk on these lands,\u201d he said. \u201cDon\u2019t you think that\u2019s more beautiful than a tomb?\u201dDespite powerful opposition he remained determined until the end to turn his land holdings into national parks.\u201cIt is pretty hard for a country to turn down a gift of 300,000 hectares,\u201d he explained in a 2007 interview. \u201cIn Argentina we had a big blow-up over the purchase of conservation lands \u2026 then we said to the ministries and to [then] President [Nestor] Kirchner, \u2018Hey look guys. We are taking land from the private sector \u2013 sometimes buying it from foreigners \u2013 and giving it back to the state.\u2019 That has a tendency to quell a lot of waters.\u201dWhile Tompkins was brutally critical of his home country in many respects, he was a staunch defender of its conservation ethic. \u201cDespite my great disappointment in American foreign policy I am very proud of the American tradition of wild land conservation,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is the best tradition and example of land conservation in the world. It goes back a long way. Every single national park had some component of private philanthropy.\u201d", "tags": ["Conservation", "Environment", "Americas", "Chile", "Argentina"], "title": "Douglas Tompkins, co-founder of North Face, dies after Chile kayak accident"},{"date": "2015-12-30T14:22:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean company AccuHealth, a pioneer in virtual clinical hospitals, has joined the Business Call to Action (BCtA) with a patient-centric tele-monitoring service designed to improve the health and livelihoods of chronically ill patients with value-added medical care at an affordable cost. BCtA is a global initiative that encourages companies to fight poverty through inclusive business models. It is supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and other international organisations.AccuHealth\u2019s inclusive business model aims to provide patients diagnosed with non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and their families with a better quality of life by combining an evidence-based telehealth monitoring service with big data, predictive modelling and data-mining. It allows hospitals and clinics to improve bed rotation, optimise patient control and increase the geographical coverage of specialists. At the same time, it allows insurance companies to better manage their clients\u2019 health needs, reducing the incidence of medical emergencies and containing costs. Related: How to leverage low-carbon economies to create prosperity By 2020, AccuHealth aims to serve 200,000 chronically ill patients living at the base of the economic pyramid (BoP) in Chile who rely on the country\u2019s public health system. By that time, Accuhealth aims to extend its operations to 500,000 patients in Mexico and 300,000 in Colombia. In 2016, Chile will also introduce a free, preventative-health service intended to empower 1.6 million BoP patients and their families to better manage their health by 2020.\u201cAccuHealth takes pride in being recognised as an industry leader. Our innovative win-win-win business model provides vital, accessible information to medical teams, reduces costs for health insurers and offers poor patients a better quality of life,\u201d said Xavier Urtubey, AccuHealth\u2019s chief executive officer. \u201cPeople at the BoP are most in need of our proactive, preventative tele-monitoring service and we are pleased to be recognised by the Business Call to Action for this vital work.\u201dHealth expenditures in Chile total $20bn (\u00a313.5bn) or 7.7% of GDP. Demand for quality healthcare has grown quickly among the poorest Chileans as the result of a pandemic in non-communicable diseases (NCDs), particularly those caused by being overweight and obese, which affect 70% of women and more than half of men. Expenses related to NCD complications, such as amputations caused by diabetes and retinopathy blindness, impact household incomes along with a loss of productivity. However, studies have shown that NCD patients who receive early and adequate medical attention can enjoy the same quality of life as healthy people.After a series of pilots, AccuHealth began attending to 2,000 NCD patients served by the national health insurance programme (FONASA) who were grappling with diabetes and hypertension \u2013 more than 40% of them were low-income patients. At its launch, FONASA\u2019s director projected that if the programme succeeded, it would be expanded to the rest of the public sector\u2019s NCD population. Positive results have lead AccuHealth\u2019s management to propose an expansion plan both within Chile and to Colombia and Mexico. Related: New report highlights how business can support sustainable development goals AccuHealth is also launching a free preventive service, which leverages tele-monitoring technology to involve patients\u2019 family and friends support networks while establishing a healthcare focal point to support the entire network efforts.AccuHealth\u2019s remote monitoring is based on medical evidence and patients\u2019 active involvement: it anticipates disease-related events and treats them according to each patient\u2019s unique health profile, diagnosis and environment, promoting a better quality of life. This model focuses on transferring disease management to patients and providing 24/7 support in crises.\u201cGood health and wellbeing is vital to the social and economic development of the world\u2019s poorest people and AccuHealth\u2019s inclusive business model is an example of how the private sector can successfully address those needs,\u201d said Sahba Sobhani, BCtA\u2019s acting manager. \u201cWe are pleased to welcome AccuHealth to BCtA and look forward to their continued growth and development impact.\u201dFor further information:Business Call to Action: Jeanne Finestone at jeanne.finestone@undp.orgAccuHealth: Xavier Urtubey at xurtubey@accuhealth.clContent on this page is paid for and provided by Business Call to Action, sponsor of the role of business in development hub", "tags": ["business call to action partner zone"], "title": "Improving lives and livelihoods with better healthcare management in Chile"},{"date": "2015-12-09T04:12:31Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Douglas Tompkins, co-founder of the North Face outdoor company who poured millions into conservation, has died after falling into near-freezing waters during a kayak accident in southern Chile.Tompkins, 72, was taken with acute hypothermia to a hospital in Coyhaique after high winds flipped his adventure kayak during a trip across Lake General Carrera in Patagonia on Tuesday, reports said. He died about six hours after arriving at hospital in the regional capital. Related: Patagonia\u2019s controversial new national park The pioneering clothing and equipment designer, who also co-founded the Esprit apparel brand, had for the last quarter of a century spent millions of dollars financing national parks. He and wife Kristine saved an estimated two million acres of pristine South American ecosystems.In 1989 Tompkins abandoned his wealthy corporate lifestyle and estate in San Francisco as he moved to the wilds of Patagonia. Spending months hiking, kayaking and exploring the southern rainforests, Tompkins adopted the values of the deep ecology movement and commenced a determined conservation battle. Beginning in Chile and then in Argentina, he campaigned with coalitions of environmental activists as he battled to stop developers churning through pristine forests, wetlands and coastal prairies.Tompkins was regularly harassed by the Chilean government and clashed with business interests as he sought to limit what he saw as environmentally destructive industries including salmon farming and logging. However, Sebasti\u00e1n Pin\u00e9ra \u2013 a self-made billionaire and president of Chile from 2010 to 2014 \u2013 followed Tompkins\u2019s example by buying up a huge portion of Chiloe island and turning it into a showcase for environmental conservation. Unlike previous Chilean presidents, Pin\u00e9ra lauded Tompkins for his efforts.In one of his final interviews, published last month in Paula, a Chilean magazine, Tompkins was asked about his legacy. \u201cPeople will walk on these lands,\u201d he said. \u201cDon\u2019t you think that\u2019s more beautiful than a tomb?\u201dDespite powerful opposition he remained determined until the end to turn his land holdings into national parks.\u201cIt is pretty hard for a country to turn down a gift of 300,000 hectares,\u201d he explained in a 2007 interview. \u201cIn Argentina we had a big blow-up over the purchase of conservation lands \u2026 then we said to the ministries and to [then] President [Nestor] Kirchner, \u2018Hey look guys. We are taking land from the private sector \u2013 sometimes buying it from foreigners \u2013 and giving it back to the state.\u2019 That has a tendency to quell a lot of waters.\u201dWhile Tompkins was brutally critical of his home country in many respects, he was a staunch defender of its conservation ethic. \u201cDespite my great disappointment in American foreign policy I am very proud of the American tradition of wild land conservation,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is the best tradition and example of land conservation in the world. It goes back a long way. Every single national park had some component of private philanthropy.\u201d", "tags": ["Conservation", "Environment", "Americas", "Chile", "Argentina"], "title": "Douglas Tompkins, co-founder of North Face, dies after Chile kayak accident"},{"date": "2015-10-05T12:57:23Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile will create one of the world\u2019s biggest marine parks around the Pacific waters of Easter Island, president Michelle Bachelet said on Monday.If the island\u2019s indigenous Rapa Nui people approve the plan after a consultation by the mainland government, fishing will be banned from a 631,368 sq km (243,630 sq miles) area \u2013 though still allowed up to 50m out for local fishermen \u2013 in an effort to stem illegal fishing. Joshua S Reichert, lead on environment initiatives at Pew, said: \u201cWorld famous for its Moai statues, Easter Island will now be known as a global leader in ocean conservation. Related: Chile plans world's biggest marine park to protect Easter Island fish stocks \u201cThis announcement is an important step toward establishing the world\u2019s first generation of great parks in the sea.\u201dThe park will rub up against one planned by the British government, encompassing an 834,000 sq km (322,000 sq miles) area around the Pitcairn Islands to the west. Fishermen on Easter Island have complained that illegal industrial fishing trawlers are stealing their tuna, while satellite analysis by NGOs indicated more than two-dozen potential illegal fishing vessels in the area over a year.Richard Branson, the founder of Virgin group, who has spoken out before about ocean conservation, blogged: \u201cThis wonderful action will protect treasures off the shores of this remote island, as well as the brilliant biodiversity that feeds the local Rapa Nui people, and helps them continue their centuries-old cultural traditions.\u201dThe intent to create what would be the world\u2019s third largest marine park was announced at the Our Ocean conference in Valparaiso which is being attended by US secretary of state, John Kerry. US president Barack Obama recorded a video message for the event, in which he declared his \u201cspecial love of the ocean\u201d and announced that the US would create two new protected areas for tidal waters at Lake Michigan and Maryland.President Bachelet also announced the creation of a marine park around two of the so-called Unfortunate Islands off the coast of Chile, San Ambrosio and San F\u00e9lix. Alex Mu\u00f1oz, vice president for the marine NGO, Oceana in Chile, said: \u201cWith the creation of this large marine park, Chile also becomes a world leader in marine conservation.\u201dThe intent to create a marine park around what Bachelet called the \u201ciconic island\u201d of Easter Island would only go ahead if it was supported by the local community following a consultation, she said.Together the two Chilean marine parks would cover an area greater than 1,000,000 sq km, the president said.Last week, New Zealand announced a new ocean sanctuary around the Kermadec islands, which will span 620,000 sq km.", "tags": ["Oceans", "Chile", "Marine life", "Fishing", "Americas", "Wildlife", "Food", "Animals", "World news", "Environment", "Conservation", "Indigenous peoples"], "title": "Chile to create one of world's largest marine parks around Easter Island"},{"date": "2015-12-30T14:22:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean company AccuHealth, a pioneer in virtual clinical hospitals, has joined the Business Call to Action (BCtA) with a patient-centric tele-monitoring service designed to improve the health and livelihoods of chronically ill patients with value-added medical care at an affordable cost. BCtA is a global initiative that encourages companies to fight poverty through inclusive business models. It is supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and other international organisations.AccuHealth\u2019s inclusive business model aims to provide patients diagnosed with non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and their families with a better quality of life by combining an evidence-based telehealth monitoring service with big data, predictive modelling and data-mining. It allows hospitals and clinics to improve bed rotation, optimise patient control and increase the geographical coverage of specialists. At the same time, it allows insurance companies to better manage their clients\u2019 health needs, reducing the incidence of medical emergencies and containing costs. Related: How to leverage low-carbon economies to create prosperity By 2020, AccuHealth aims to serve 200,000 chronically ill patients living at the base of the economic pyramid (BoP) in Chile who rely on the country\u2019s public health system. By that time, Accuhealth aims to extend its operations to 500,000 patients in Mexico and 300,000 in Colombia. In 2016, Chile will also introduce a free, preventative-health service intended to empower 1.6 million BoP patients and their families to better manage their health by 2020.\u201cAccuHealth takes pride in being recognised as an industry leader. Our innovative win-win-win business model provides vital, accessible information to medical teams, reduces costs for health insurers and offers poor patients a better quality of life,\u201d said Xavier Urtubey, AccuHealth\u2019s chief executive officer. \u201cPeople at the BoP are most in need of our proactive, preventative tele-monitoring service and we are pleased to be recognised by the Business Call to Action for this vital work.\u201dHealth expenditures in Chile total $20bn (\u00a313.5bn) or 7.7% of GDP. Demand for quality healthcare has grown quickly among the poorest Chileans as the result of a pandemic in non-communicable diseases (NCDs), particularly those caused by being overweight and obese, which affect 70% of women and more than half of men. Expenses related to NCD complications, such as amputations caused by diabetes and retinopathy blindness, impact household incomes along with a loss of productivity. However, studies have shown that NCD patients who receive early and adequate medical attention can enjoy the same quality of life as healthy people.After a series of pilots, AccuHealth began attending to 2,000 NCD patients served by the national health insurance programme (FONASA) who were grappling with diabetes and hypertension \u2013 more than 40% of them were low-income patients. At its launch, FONASA\u2019s director projected that if the programme succeeded, it would be expanded to the rest of the public sector\u2019s NCD population. Positive results have lead AccuHealth\u2019s management to propose an expansion plan both within Chile and to Colombia and Mexico. Related: New report highlights how business can support sustainable development goals AccuHealth is also launching a free preventive service, which leverages tele-monitoring technology to involve patients\u2019 family and friends support networks while establishing a healthcare focal point to support the entire network efforts.AccuHealth\u2019s remote monitoring is based on medical evidence and patients\u2019 active involvement: it anticipates disease-related events and treats them according to each patient\u2019s unique health profile, diagnosis and environment, promoting a better quality of life. This model focuses on transferring disease management to patients and providing 24/7 support in crises.\u201cGood health and wellbeing is vital to the social and economic development of the world\u2019s poorest people and AccuHealth\u2019s inclusive business model is an example of how the private sector can successfully address those needs,\u201d said Sahba Sobhani, BCtA\u2019s acting manager. \u201cWe are pleased to welcome AccuHealth to BCtA and look forward to their continued growth and development impact.\u201dFor further information:Business Call to Action: Jeanne Finestone at jeanne.finestone@undp.orgAccuHealth: Xavier Urtubey at xurtubey@accuhealth.clContent on this page is paid for and provided by Business Call to Action, sponsor of the role of business in development hub", "tags": ["business call to action partner zone"], "title": "Improving lives and livelihoods with better healthcare management in Chile"},{"date": "2015-12-09T04:12:31Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Douglas Tompkins, co-founder of the North Face outdoor company who poured millions into conservation, has died after falling into near-freezing waters during a kayak accident in southern Chile.Tompkins, 72, was taken with acute hypothermia to a hospital in Coyhaique after high winds flipped his adventure kayak during a trip across Lake General Carrera in Patagonia on Tuesday, reports said. He died about six hours after arriving at hospital in the regional capital. Related: Patagonia\u2019s controversial new national park The pioneering clothing and equipment designer, who also co-founded the Esprit apparel brand, had for the last quarter of a century spent millions of dollars financing national parks. He and wife Kristine saved an estimated two million acres of pristine South American ecosystems.In 1989 Tompkins abandoned his wealthy corporate lifestyle and estate in San Francisco as he moved to the wilds of Patagonia. Spending months hiking, kayaking and exploring the southern rainforests, Tompkins adopted the values of the deep ecology movement and commenced a determined conservation battle. Beginning in Chile and then in Argentina, he campaigned with coalitions of environmental activists as he battled to stop developers churning through pristine forests, wetlands and coastal prairies.Tompkins was regularly harassed by the Chilean government and clashed with business interests as he sought to limit what he saw as environmentally destructive industries including salmon farming and logging. However, Sebasti\u00e1n Pin\u00e9ra \u2013 a self-made billionaire and president of Chile from 2010 to 2014 \u2013 followed Tompkins\u2019s example by buying up a huge portion of Chiloe island and turning it into a showcase for environmental conservation. Unlike previous Chilean presidents, Pin\u00e9ra lauded Tompkins for his efforts.In one of his final interviews, published last month in Paula, a Chilean magazine, Tompkins was asked about his legacy. \u201cPeople will walk on these lands,\u201d he said. \u201cDon\u2019t you think that\u2019s more beautiful than a tomb?\u201dDespite powerful opposition he remained determined until the end to turn his land holdings into national parks.\u201cIt is pretty hard for a country to turn down a gift of 300,000 hectares,\u201d he explained in a 2007 interview. \u201cIn Argentina we had a big blow-up over the purchase of conservation lands \u2026 then we said to the ministries and to [then] President [Nestor] Kirchner, \u2018Hey look guys. We are taking land from the private sector \u2013 sometimes buying it from foreigners \u2013 and giving it back to the state.\u2019 That has a tendency to quell a lot of waters.\u201dWhile Tompkins was brutally critical of his home country in many respects, he was a staunch defender of its conservation ethic. \u201cDespite my great disappointment in American foreign policy I am very proud of the American tradition of wild land conservation,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is the best tradition and example of land conservation in the world. It goes back a long way. Every single national park had some component of private philanthropy.\u201d", "tags": ["Conservation", "Environment", "Americas", "Chile", "Argentina"], "title": "Douglas Tompkins, co-founder of North Face, dies after Chile kayak accident"},{"date": "2015-10-05T12:57:23Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile will create one of the world\u2019s biggest marine parks around the Pacific waters of Easter Island, president Michelle Bachelet said on Monday.If the island\u2019s indigenous Rapa Nui people approve the plan after a consultation by the mainland government, fishing will be banned from a 631,368 sq km (243,630 sq miles) area \u2013 though still allowed up to 50m out for local fishermen \u2013 in an effort to stem illegal fishing. Joshua S Reichert, lead on environment initiatives at Pew, said: \u201cWorld famous for its Moai statues, Easter Island will now be known as a global leader in ocean conservation. Related: Chile plans world's biggest marine park to protect Easter Island fish stocks \u201cThis announcement is an important step toward establishing the world\u2019s first generation of great parks in the sea.\u201dThe park will rub up against one planned by the British government, encompassing an 834,000 sq km (322,000 sq miles) area around the Pitcairn Islands to the west. Fishermen on Easter Island have complained that illegal industrial fishing trawlers are stealing their tuna, while satellite analysis by NGOs indicated more than two-dozen potential illegal fishing vessels in the area over a year.Richard Branson, the founder of Virgin group, who has spoken out before about ocean conservation, blogged: \u201cThis wonderful action will protect treasures off the shores of this remote island, as well as the brilliant biodiversity that feeds the local Rapa Nui people, and helps them continue their centuries-old cultural traditions.\u201dThe intent to create what would be the world\u2019s third largest marine park was announced at the Our Ocean conference in Valparaiso which is being attended by US secretary of state, John Kerry. US president Barack Obama recorded a video message for the event, in which he declared his \u201cspecial love of the ocean\u201d and announced that the US would create two new protected areas for tidal waters at Lake Michigan and Maryland.President Bachelet also announced the creation of a marine park around two of the so-called Unfortunate Islands off the coast of Chile, San Ambrosio and San F\u00e9lix. Alex Mu\u00f1oz, vice president for the marine NGO, Oceana in Chile, said: \u201cWith the creation of this large marine park, Chile also becomes a world leader in marine conservation.\u201dThe intent to create a marine park around what Bachelet called the \u201ciconic island\u201d of Easter Island would only go ahead if it was supported by the local community following a consultation, she said.Together the two Chilean marine parks would cover an area greater than 1,000,000 sq km, the president said.Last week, New Zealand announced a new ocean sanctuary around the Kermadec islands, which will span 620,000 sq km.", "tags": ["Oceans", "Chile", "Marine life", "Fishing", "Americas", "Wildlife", "Food", "Animals", "World news", "Environment", "Conservation", "Indigenous peoples"], "title": "Chile to create one of world's largest marine parks around Easter Island"},{"date": "2015-10-12T06:58:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Glencore has announced plans to sell copper mines in Australia and Chile as the embattled commodity trader and miner seeks to reduce its debts.Asset sales are part of Glencore\u2019s plan to cut $30bn (\u00a320bn) of net debt by a third after a slump in the price of commodities it trades and mines. It has suspended its dividend, raised $2.5bn by selling shares and halted operations at two African mines.Its share price has more than halved this year as a result of the collapse in commodity prices as demand from China falls. Related: Glencore slashes zinc production and jobs The company said it decided to sell the Cobar and Lomas Bayas mines after a number of potential bidders made enquiries. Glencore shares were suspended in Hong Kong before the announcement was made.Glencore said: \u201cThis will allow potential buyers to bid to purchase either one or both of the mines and may or may not result in a sale. Glencore will issue an update only in the event a sale is agreed or disclosure is otherwise required.\u201dCobar, in New South Wales, is an underground mine producing about 1.1m tonnes of copper a year. The open pit Lomas Bayas mine is 80 miles from the Chilean port of Antofagasta and produces low-grade copper ore that is converted to copper cathode.The company, led by chief executive Ivan Glasenberg, is also looking to sell a minority stake in its agricultural business. Last month it sold a Brazilian nickel project. Last week, Glencore prompted the biggest rise in zinc prices for a decade when it announced it would cut its production of the metal by a third.", "tags": ["Glencore", "Mining", "Commodities", "Business", "Chile", "Australian economy"], "title": "Glencore plans copper mine sales to cut debts"},{"date": "2015-12-30T14:22:35Z", "country": "chile", "content": "The Chilean company AccuHealth, a pioneer in virtual clinical hospitals, has joined the Business Call to Action (BCtA) with a patient-centric tele-monitoring service designed to improve the health and livelihoods of chronically ill patients with value-added medical care at an affordable cost. BCtA is a global initiative that encourages companies to fight poverty through inclusive business models. It is supported by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) and other international organisations.AccuHealth\u2019s inclusive business model aims to provide patients diagnosed with non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and their families with a better quality of life by combining an evidence-based telehealth monitoring service with big data, predictive modelling and data-mining. It allows hospitals and clinics to improve bed rotation, optimise patient control and increase the geographical coverage of specialists. At the same time, it allows insurance companies to better manage their clients\u2019 health needs, reducing the incidence of medical emergencies and containing costs. Related: How to leverage low-carbon economies to create prosperity By 2020, AccuHealth aims to serve 200,000 chronically ill patients living at the base of the economic pyramid (BoP) in Chile who rely on the country\u2019s public health system. By that time, Accuhealth aims to extend its operations to 500,000 patients in Mexico and 300,000 in Colombia. In 2016, Chile will also introduce a free, preventative-health service intended to empower 1.6 million BoP patients and their families to better manage their health by 2020.\u201cAccuHealth takes pride in being recognised as an industry leader. Our innovative win-win-win business model provides vital, accessible information to medical teams, reduces costs for health insurers and offers poor patients a better quality of life,\u201d said Xavier Urtubey, AccuHealth\u2019s chief executive officer. \u201cPeople at the BoP are most in need of our proactive, preventative tele-monitoring service and we are pleased to be recognised by the Business Call to Action for this vital work.\u201dHealth expenditures in Chile total $20bn (\u00a313.5bn) or 7.7% of GDP. Demand for quality healthcare has grown quickly among the poorest Chileans as the result of a pandemic in non-communicable diseases (NCDs), particularly those caused by being overweight and obese, which affect 70% of women and more than half of men. Expenses related to NCD complications, such as amputations caused by diabetes and retinopathy blindness, impact household incomes along with a loss of productivity. However, studies have shown that NCD patients who receive early and adequate medical attention can enjoy the same quality of life as healthy people.After a series of pilots, AccuHealth began attending to 2,000 NCD patients served by the national health insurance programme (FONASA) who were grappling with diabetes and hypertension \u2013 more than 40% of them were low-income patients. At its launch, FONASA\u2019s director projected that if the programme succeeded, it would be expanded to the rest of the public sector\u2019s NCD population. Positive results have lead AccuHealth\u2019s management to propose an expansion plan both within Chile and to Colombia and Mexico. Related: New report highlights how business can support sustainable development goals AccuHealth is also launching a free preventive service, which leverages tele-monitoring technology to involve patients\u2019 family and friends support networks while establishing a healthcare focal point to support the entire network efforts.AccuHealth\u2019s remote monitoring is based on medical evidence and patients\u2019 active involvement: it anticipates disease-related events and treats them according to each patient\u2019s unique health profile, diagnosis and environment, promoting a better quality of life. This model focuses on transferring disease management to patients and providing 24/7 support in crises.\u201cGood health and wellbeing is vital to the social and economic development of the world\u2019s poorest people and AccuHealth\u2019s inclusive business model is an example of how the private sector can successfully address those needs,\u201d said Sahba Sobhani, BCtA\u2019s acting manager. \u201cWe are pleased to welcome AccuHealth to BCtA and look forward to their continued growth and development impact.\u201dFor further information:Business Call to Action: Jeanne Finestone at jeanne.finestone@undp.orgAccuHealth: Xavier Urtubey at xurtubey@accuhealth.clContent on this page is paid for and provided by Business Call to Action, sponsor of the role of business in development hub", "tags": ["business call to action partner zone"], "title": "Improving lives and livelihoods with better healthcare management in Chile"},{"date": "2015-12-09T04:12:31Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Douglas Tompkins, co-founder of the North Face outdoor company who poured millions into conservation, has died after falling into near-freezing waters during a kayak accident in southern Chile.Tompkins, 72, was taken with acute hypothermia to a hospital in Coyhaique after high winds flipped his adventure kayak during a trip across Lake General Carrera in Patagonia on Tuesday, reports said. He died about six hours after arriving at hospital in the regional capital. Related: Patagonia\u2019s controversial new national park The pioneering clothing and equipment designer, who also co-founded the Esprit apparel brand, had for the last quarter of a century spent millions of dollars financing national parks. He and wife Kristine saved an estimated two million acres of pristine South American ecosystems.In 1989 Tompkins abandoned his wealthy corporate lifestyle and estate in San Francisco as he moved to the wilds of Patagonia. Spending months hiking, kayaking and exploring the southern rainforests, Tompkins adopted the values of the deep ecology movement and commenced a determined conservation battle. Beginning in Chile and then in Argentina, he campaigned with coalitions of environmental activists as he battled to stop developers churning through pristine forests, wetlands and coastal prairies.Tompkins was regularly harassed by the Chilean government and clashed with business interests as he sought to limit what he saw as environmentally destructive industries including salmon farming and logging. However, Sebasti\u00e1n Pin\u00e9ra \u2013 a self-made billionaire and president of Chile from 2010 to 2014 \u2013 followed Tompkins\u2019s example by buying up a huge portion of Chiloe island and turning it into a showcase for environmental conservation. Unlike previous Chilean presidents, Pin\u00e9ra lauded Tompkins for his efforts.In one of his final interviews, published last month in Paula, a Chilean magazine, Tompkins was asked about his legacy. \u201cPeople will walk on these lands,\u201d he said. \u201cDon\u2019t you think that\u2019s more beautiful than a tomb?\u201dDespite powerful opposition he remained determined until the end to turn his land holdings into national parks.\u201cIt is pretty hard for a country to turn down a gift of 300,000 hectares,\u201d he explained in a 2007 interview. \u201cIn Argentina we had a big blow-up over the purchase of conservation lands \u2026 then we said to the ministries and to [then] President [Nestor] Kirchner, \u2018Hey look guys. We are taking land from the private sector \u2013 sometimes buying it from foreigners \u2013 and giving it back to the state.\u2019 That has a tendency to quell a lot of waters.\u201dWhile Tompkins was brutally critical of his home country in many respects, he was a staunch defender of its conservation ethic. \u201cDespite my great disappointment in American foreign policy I am very proud of the American tradition of wild land conservation,\u201d he said. \u201cIt is the best tradition and example of land conservation in the world. It goes back a long way. Every single national park had some component of private philanthropy.\u201d", "tags": ["Conservation", "Environment", "Americas", "Chile", "Argentina"], "title": "Douglas Tompkins, co-founder of North Face, dies after Chile kayak accident"},{"date": "2015-10-05T12:57:23Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Chile will create one of the world\u2019s biggest marine parks around the Pacific waters of Easter Island, president Michelle Bachelet said on Monday.If the island\u2019s indigenous Rapa Nui people approve the plan after a consultation by the mainland government, fishing will be banned from a 631,368 sq km (243,630 sq miles) area \u2013 though still allowed up to 50m out for local fishermen \u2013 in an effort to stem illegal fishing. Joshua S Reichert, lead on environment initiatives at Pew, said: \u201cWorld famous for its Moai statues, Easter Island will now be known as a global leader in ocean conservation. Related: Chile plans world's biggest marine park to protect Easter Island fish stocks \u201cThis announcement is an important step toward establishing the world\u2019s first generation of great parks in the sea.\u201dThe park will rub up against one planned by the British government, encompassing an 834,000 sq km (322,000 sq miles) area around the Pitcairn Islands to the west. Fishermen on Easter Island have complained that illegal industrial fishing trawlers are stealing their tuna, while satellite analysis by NGOs indicated more than two-dozen potential illegal fishing vessels in the area over a year.Richard Branson, the founder of Virgin group, who has spoken out before about ocean conservation, blogged: \u201cThis wonderful action will protect treasures off the shores of this remote island, as well as the brilliant biodiversity that feeds the local Rapa Nui people, and helps them continue their centuries-old cultural traditions.\u201dThe intent to create what would be the world\u2019s third largest marine park was announced at the Our Ocean conference in Valparaiso which is being attended by US secretary of state, John Kerry. US president Barack Obama recorded a video message for the event, in which he declared his \u201cspecial love of the ocean\u201d and announced that the US would create two new protected areas for tidal waters at Lake Michigan and Maryland.President Bachelet also announced the creation of a marine park around two of the so-called Unfortunate Islands off the coast of Chile, San Ambrosio and San F\u00e9lix. Alex Mu\u00f1oz, vice president for the marine NGO, Oceana in Chile, said: \u201cWith the creation of this large marine park, Chile also becomes a world leader in marine conservation.\u201dThe intent to create a marine park around what Bachelet called the \u201ciconic island\u201d of Easter Island would only go ahead if it was supported by the local community following a consultation, she said.Together the two Chilean marine parks would cover an area greater than 1,000,000 sq km, the president said.Last week, New Zealand announced a new ocean sanctuary around the Kermadec islands, which will span 620,000 sq km.", "tags": ["Oceans", "Chile", "Marine life", "Fishing", "Americas", "Wildlife", "Food", "Animals", "World news", "Environment", "Conservation", "Indigenous peoples"], "title": "Chile to create one of world's largest marine parks around Easter Island"},{"date": "2015-10-12T06:58:01Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Glencore has announced plans to sell copper mines in Australia and Chile as the embattled commodity trader and miner seeks to reduce its debts.Asset sales are part of Glencore\u2019s plan to cut $30bn (\u00a320bn) of net debt by a third after a slump in the price of commodities it trades and mines. It has suspended its dividend, raised $2.5bn by selling shares and halted operations at two African mines.Its share price has more than halved this year as a result of the collapse in commodity prices as demand from China falls. Related: Glencore slashes zinc production and jobs The company said it decided to sell the Cobar and Lomas Bayas mines after a number of potential bidders made enquiries. Glencore shares were suspended in Hong Kong before the announcement was made.Glencore said: \u201cThis will allow potential buyers to bid to purchase either one or both of the mines and may or may not result in a sale. Glencore will issue an update only in the event a sale is agreed or disclosure is otherwise required.\u201dCobar, in New South Wales, is an underground mine producing about 1.1m tonnes of copper a year. The open pit Lomas Bayas mine is 80 miles from the Chilean port of Antofagasta and produces low-grade copper ore that is converted to copper cathode.The company, led by chief executive Ivan Glasenberg, is also looking to sell a minority stake in its agricultural business. Last month it sold a Brazilian nickel project. Last week, Glencore prompted the biggest rise in zinc prices for a decade when it announced it would cut its production of the metal by a third.", "tags": ["Glencore", "Mining", "Commodities", "Business", "Chile", "Australian economy"], "title": "Glencore plans copper mine sales to cut debts"},{"date": "2015-11-10T13:20:20Z", "country": "chile", "content": "Wednesday 21 October, 2015We\u2019ve been counting down to today for months. As soon as I heard about a possible tour to Patagonia with the BBC National Orchestra of Wales, I knew it was an opportunity not to be missed, and as the trip was a three-and-a-half-week one, we decided to go en famille. I have two Welsh-speaking daughters aged five and eight, and was excited that they would get the opportunity to meet other children on the other side of the world who also spoke Welsh. Welsh settlers went out to Patagonia 150 years ago on the Mimosa, in search of similarly lush and green lands. The reality was very different, and the first few years were an exercise in survival before they started to build communities and settlements. Today in Patagonia, around 50,000 Patagonians are of Welsh descent, and estimates put the number of Welsh speakers at anything from 1,500 to 5,000.Thursday 22 OctoberIn Buenos Aires our party split. I\u2019m part of a group of about 20 that includes members of the orchestra, BBCNOW staff, the wonderful conductor Grant Llewellyn and my group of four. Everyone else heads down to Trelew and Puerto Madryn, but we fly west to the Andes and drop down late afternoon in a community called Esquel.Friday 23 OctoberA short journey to the small village of Trevelin (Trefelin is Welsh for \u201cmill town\u201d), where we head straight to the old mill so I can meet and play to local schoolchildren. My harp is still in transit with the main orchestra, so I\u2019m lucky to be able to borrow Catrin Heledd Morris\u2019s instrument. She\u2019s the only person in Patagonia with a pedal harp. After lunch we do an amazing session at a special-needs school, and then I work with some local harpists. The majority of the children here have never seen a harp, let alone heard one, and there are no concert harpists in Patagonia, and it is always a pleasure to be able to introduce it to people in the hope that maybe they may want to listen to more of it.Saturday 24 OctoberSaturday begins with a trip on the Patagonia Express La Trochita, an old steam train complete with log burners and wooden seats. I\u2019ve brought a small harp with me and entertain my fellow passengers on the way up the through the mountains with the odd Welsh number. It doesn\u2019t take long to persuade them to have a go.We give a concert in the evening, which is a chance to thank some of the wonderful people who\u2019ve been so welcoming. I also get to work with a superb young string group led by violinist Paz Misurelli. Paz moved here from Buenos Aires and started teaching violin to local students, and has since built a thriving academy, giving opportunities to youngsters and older people who would never have dreamed of being able to play Vivaldi or Piazzolla. I perform some traditional Welsh music, and also some of my usual classical repertoire, such as Parish Alvars and Godefroid\u2019s Carnaval of Venice. There are also performances by young farmers who sing Welsh songs that we all know, and some local tunes accompanied by guitar.Monday 26 OctoberWe say goodbye to Esquel and pile into our little bus for the eight-hour trip east to join the rest of the team in Trelew. Normally on a road trip this long, you would expect to pass through many towns and villages, but here we pass just three small communities, each huddled around a petrol station, and that\u2019s it \u2013 for eight hours. There is just milesof dry grassland as far as the eye can see. My thoughts focus on those Welsh settlers, 150 years ago, who, with all their possessions, crossed this land on foot, following ancient Indian paths, to make it to the mountains.Tuesday 27 OctoberMy girls and I spend the day at the Welsh school in Trelew. Some of the members of the orchestra are visiting too, and chorus manager Osian Rowlands has everyone on their feet immediately, singing. The children know many of the same songs my own kids grew up learning \u2013 it\u2019s a funny experience to be in a small classroom, looking over grassland in South America, singing and enjoying Welsh music. There\u2019s time in the evening for a jam session with the Orquesta Chazarreta, made up of guitars, charangos, violins, pipes and percussion instruments. The music they play is very rhythm-based, with the guitar and charango sections creating rhythmic chords which accompany the more lyrical lines on the violins and pipes. I challenge them to play a Welsh song with me \u2013 Ar Ben Waun Tredegar \u2013 to which they rise very successfully.Wednesday 28 OctoberWe venture to Gaiman, 20kms away, and I spend the morning with young harpists preparing duets for the evening\u2019s concert in the gimnasio municipal, which was a typical \u201cnoson lawen\u201d \u2013 a bit like a variety show. There is singing from the local choir, folk dancing, vocal and instrumental groups, and not forgetting the harp duets.By now, the rest of the orchestra have joined us and we\u2019re preparing for Friday\u2019s gala concert in the Predio Ferial. The building used to be a woollen mill but has been specially converted into a concert hall. It\u2019s also housing a 40-metre plastic replica of the largest ever dinosaur fossil, which was found in Patagonia last year.Friday 30 OctoberNobody knows quite what to expect, or who will come (tickets are free), but as the traffic jams start building half an hour before the concert, we know it\u2019s going be a good crowd. This is the first time a professional international symphony orchestra has played in Patagonia, and it is a fantastic and memorable evening. Our programme ranges from Beethoven to Jurassic Park, from Welsh music to Piazzolla\u2019s Libertango. The entire hall is on their feet. It\u2019s like being at a football match.The Welsh language survives here through music. It is sung at family meals, friendly gatherings and in schools. It goes to prove that music can overcome language and social barriers, and can bring people together from opposite sides of the world. I had never imagined that simply having a singsong could be such an important part of keeping tradition and culture alive, both on a small level around a family living room and on a bigger scale through education and social direction. Wales and Welsh live on here. I hope it continues to do so.Listen to the BBCNOW\u2019s concert from Teatro Colon, Buenos Aires (available until 3 December.)", "tags": ["BBC National Orchestra of Wales", "Classical music", "Music", "Culture", "Argentina", "Wales", "World music"], "title": "Catrin Finch's Patagonia diary: 'Wales survives here through music'"}]