[{"date": "2008-01-21T23:56:41Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "", "tags": ["Monarchy", "UK news", "South Pacific", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Letter: The death of Sir Ed should herald the end of the monarchy in New Zealand"},{"date": "2008-01-21T23:56:41Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "", "tags": ["Monarchy", "UK news", "South Pacific", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Letter: The death of Sir Ed should herald the end of the monarchy in New Zealand"},{"date": "2008-01-14T23:52:10Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The men, both from Sydney, set off in their small fibreglass craft on November 13 in an attempt to become the first Australians to \"cross the ditch\" by kayak. They had hoped to reach New Zealand before Christmas but strong winds and ocean currents forced them to go round in circles, adding an extra 600 miles and 20 days to the journey. As a result, the first Australians to do the crossing in a kayak were a crew of four who did it in the other direction, reaching Sydney on December 30.Encountering swells of more than 30ft, the men described the conditions at sea as \"like being bounced around in a washing machine\". Lack of sleep also took its toll and towards the end of the trip they were reduced to eating only once a day.A final effort aided by good weather conditions got them to New Zealand where they were applauded by other kayakers and given a Maori welcome as they stepped ashore.\"We're so, so happy. It's really required every single bit of motivation, brain power and willpower to make it happen,\" said Castrission.Both men paid tribute to another Australian kayaker Andrew McCauley who died during a solo attempt at the same crossing last year.", "tags": ["World news", "Australia news", "South Pacific", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Kayakers reach New Zealand"},{"date": "2008-07-24T06:17:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The New Zealand provincial newspaper, the Daily Chronicle, which serves the Horowhenua-Kapiti area north of Wellington, will soon be unable to live up to its title. It is to publish only two days a week, and will be given away free. Its owners, APN - a division of Tony O'Reilly's company, Independent News & Media - said a loss of advertising revenue had contributed to the decision to downsize. (Via New Zealand Herald/NZPA)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "New Zealand", "World news", "Anthony O'Reilly", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand daily cuts publication"},{"date": "2008-07-24T06:17:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The New Zealand provincial newspaper, the Daily Chronicle, which serves the Horowhenua-Kapiti area north of Wellington, will soon be unable to live up to its title. It is to publish only two days a week, and will be given away free. Its owners, APN - a division of Tony O'Reilly's company, Independent News & Media - said a loss of advertising revenue had contributed to the decision to downsize. (Via New Zealand Herald/NZPA)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "New Zealand", "World news", "Anthony O'Reilly", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand daily cuts publication"},{"date": "2008-09-17T14:58:11Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Two New Zealand editors accused of being in contempt of court for publishing information obtained by police surveillance intercepts have defended their actions at a high court hearing in Wellington. Dominion Post editor Tim Pankhurst and Fairfax group executive editor Paul Thompson both denied knowing that they were prohibited from disclosing the communications (Via New Zealand Herald/NZPA) ", "tags": ["Media"], "title": "New Zealand editors fight contempt case"},{"date": "2008-07-24T06:17:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The New Zealand provincial newspaper, the Daily Chronicle, which serves the Horowhenua-Kapiti area north of Wellington, will soon be unable to live up to its title. It is to publish only two days a week, and will be given away free. Its owners, APN - a division of Tony O'Reilly's company, Independent News & Media - said a loss of advertising revenue had contributed to the decision to downsize. (Via New Zealand Herald/NZPA)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "New Zealand", "World news", "Anthony O'Reilly", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand daily cuts publication"},{"date": "2008-09-17T14:58:11Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Two New Zealand editors accused of being in contempt of court for publishing information obtained by police surveillance intercepts have defended their actions at a high court hearing in Wellington. Dominion Post editor Tim Pankhurst and Fairfax group executive editor Paul Thompson both denied knowing that they were prohibited from disclosing the communications (Via New Zealand Herald/NZPA) ", "tags": ["Media"], "title": "New Zealand editors fight contempt case"},{"date": "2008-09-01T11:22:14Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A man has been charged with sexually assaulting two British women on holiday in New Zealand.The women, believed to be in their teens, told police they had been subjected to a two-hour sex attack after a man broke into their campervan. Police said today a 29-year-old local man had handed himself in and was later charged with three counts of sexual violation and two of kidnap. The attack happened in the early hours of Friday shortly after the pair returned home after a night out at a bar in Tokomaru Bay on the north coast of the country's North Island, police said.Detective Sergeant Kevin Ford of Gisborne police said the victims had tried to ward off the attack by talking to the man about themselves and their families. \"They did all the right things in terms of trying to personalise the situation by talking to him about who they were and who he was.\" But the man had overpowered both of them and subjected them to a series of sexual assaults over two hours before leaving the campervan. \"It was a horrible ordeal that these two girls went through, not only because of what happened but also due to the prolonged nature of the attack,\" Det Sgt Ford said. Speaking to New Zealand's TV3 television channel, the women said they were determined to continue their holiday. One said: \"He's not going to spoil it for us. He'd be winning.\" In January, Scottish backpacker Karen Aim was murdered as she made her way back from a night out with friends in the North Island resort town of Taupo. But Det Sgt Ford insisted New Zealand was a \"very safe place\" for tourists to visit, adding: \"You can never get away from the fact there will be the odd, isolated incident.\"", "tags": ["UK news", "New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Man charged with sexually assaulting British women in New Zealand"},{"date": "2008-07-24T06:17:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The New Zealand provincial newspaper, the Daily Chronicle, which serves the Horowhenua-Kapiti area north of Wellington, will soon be unable to live up to its title. It is to publish only two days a week, and will be given away free. Its owners, APN - a division of Tony O'Reilly's company, Independent News & Media - said a loss of advertising revenue had contributed to the decision to downsize. (Via New Zealand Herald/NZPA)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "New Zealand", "World news", "Anthony O'Reilly", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand daily cuts publication"},{"date": "2008-09-17T14:58:11Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Two New Zealand editors accused of being in contempt of court for publishing information obtained by police surveillance intercepts have defended their actions at a high court hearing in Wellington. Dominion Post editor Tim Pankhurst and Fairfax group executive editor Paul Thompson both denied knowing that they were prohibited from disclosing the communications (Via New Zealand Herald/NZPA) ", "tags": ["Media"], "title": "New Zealand editors fight contempt case"},{"date": "2008-09-01T11:22:14Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A man has been charged with sexually assaulting two British women on holiday in New Zealand.The women, believed to be in their teens, told police they had been subjected to a two-hour sex attack after a man broke into their campervan. Police said today a 29-year-old local man had handed himself in and was later charged with three counts of sexual violation and two of kidnap. The attack happened in the early hours of Friday shortly after the pair returned home after a night out at a bar in Tokomaru Bay on the north coast of the country's North Island, police said.Detective Sergeant Kevin Ford of Gisborne police said the victims had tried to ward off the attack by talking to the man about themselves and their families. \"They did all the right things in terms of trying to personalise the situation by talking to him about who they were and who he was.\" But the man had overpowered both of them and subjected them to a series of sexual assaults over two hours before leaving the campervan. \"It was a horrible ordeal that these two girls went through, not only because of what happened but also due to the prolonged nature of the attack,\" Det Sgt Ford said. Speaking to New Zealand's TV3 television channel, the women said they were determined to continue their holiday. One said: \"He's not going to spoil it for us. He'd be winning.\" In January, Scottish backpacker Karen Aim was murdered as she made her way back from a night out with friends in the North Island resort town of Taupo. But Det Sgt Ford insisted New Zealand was a \"very safe place\" for tourists to visit, adding: \"You can never get away from the fact there will be the odd, isolated incident.\"", "tags": ["UK news", "New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Man charged with sexually assaulting British women in New Zealand"},{"date": "2008-07-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand has long had a record of being ahead of the political game. It was the first country in the world to accept women's right to vote, in 1893. In the 1930s, it emerged as a pioneer of the modern welfare state. Fifty years later, in the 1980s, it was the first state to declare itself nuclear-free. Less creditably, during the same decade, New Zealand became host to the first social democratic government to embrace a free-market programme of wholesale privatisation, liberalisation and deregulation.Named after New Zealand Labour's then finance minister, \"Rogernomics\" was all the rage on the global new right for a time - and laid the ground for neoliberal social democratic governments like Tony Blair's - until it finally imploded amidst a litany of social and economic failures: stagnation, unemployment, bankruptcies, crime and rampant inequality. Two decades on, another New Zealand government, this time a more progressive Labour coalition headed by Helen Clark, is again at the forefront of political change - leading the revival of public ownership.On Tuesday, Clark's government renationalised the country's railways and ferry services, privatised in the early 90s and subsequently run down and asset-stripped by the Australian owners. Launching the new, publicly owned KiwiRail, finance minister Michael Cullen declared that privatisation had \"been a painful lesson for New Zealand\". Nor is this the first renationalisation by the Clark government, which took over Air New Zealand after it nearly collapsed in 2001 and has also built up a successful state-owned retail bank - named Kiwibank, needless to say.And unlike Gordon Brown's government, which strained every nerve to avoid nationalising Northern Rock to avoid seeming \"old Labour\", Clark has championed the takeover of rail as exactly what is needed to build a modern, environmentally sustainable transport network. Against a background of global warming and rising fuel prices, she argues, rail is a \"central part of 21st-century economic infrastructure\". Given Britain's similarly disastrous experience with rail privatisation, you might think that taking a leaf out New Zealand's book would be just the kind of popular policy to help dig Brown's government out of its hole. Despite the modest improvements achieved by putting the lethal Railtrack out of its misery, Britain's railway system remains a byword for bewildering fragmentation, unreliability, overcrowding, delays and exorbitant cost - which has only now completed a high-speed link to the Channel tunnel, 15 years after its state-owned French counterpart. Fleeced by the private train companies and rolling stock contractors (some of them pocketing 30% rates of return), it is now the most expensive, opaque and inefficient rail system in Europe. As the Campaign for Better Transport reported yesterday, walk-on fares are on average nearly five times those booked in advance - and all ticket prices are set to spiral in the next few years. Meanwhile, renationalisation is strongly supported by the public and is in fact official Labour party policy.But far from planning to end what has been a disastrous experiment, the rail minister, Tom Harris, last month insisted that if the Tories hadn't privatised the railways, New Labour would have sold them off when it came to power in 1997. In a surreal aside that will baffle most UK train passengers, he insisted that \"the private railway has provided a level of investment, innovation, imagination that wouldn't have happened if BR had stayed as it was\".This is nonsense. Investment in the railways comes from farepayers and government subsidy, now around three times the level before privatisation (\u00a32bn a year goes to the train operating companies alone), while the leakage of cash from the industry to private investors and lenders is estimated at \u00a3800m a year. The rise in passenger numbers is simply the product of economic growth, and the case for a reintegrated, publicly owned rail system - at the heart of a national investment programme to encourage more people to move off road and air travel on to rail - is overwhelming. It has the added advantage that most services can be taken back at no cost as franchises expire.But the government is still in the grip of an ideology that sees privatisation as the only way to reform the health service, and nationalisation as a throwback to be avoided at all costs. As global economic conditions increasingly undermine the credibility of free-market economics, however, real life is pointing in another direction. The revival of public ownership in countries as diverse as New Zealand and Venezuela reflects a wider disillusionment with the neoliberal experience of the past decade.As the writer and Work Foundation chief executive Will Hutton recently argued in a BBC programme on nationalisation, the takeover of Northern Rock, Railtrack and Metronet has begun to force a mainstream reappraisal of what had become a political taboo - just as academic research has been rehabilitating the productivity and costs record of Britain's postwar nationalised industries.But it's also clear that, if there is going to be an effective new role for public enterprise and intervention, it will have to be about more than bailing out the failures of the private sector in traditional industries, and engage with the cutting edge of the economy. In Britain, the credit crisis has exposed the dangers of the reliance on finance, the rundown of manufacturing, and the chronically low rate of investment in the economy. The case for a national fibre-optic network, for example, giving universal fast broadband access to the home is a powerful one, both on economic and social grounds - countries such as South Korea are far ahead of Britain. But the private sector won't deliver the necessary multibillion pound long-term investment. A publicly owned network, on the other hand, could do - perhaps funded by service providers as part of a universal service obligation, as the Communication Workers Union argues.What is certain is that the Brown government's kneejerk resistance to public intervention and ownership will have to end if it is to have a hope of riding out the crisis and dealing with the new economic reality. By making a stand for progressive common sense, New Zealand has at least helped break the spell that privatisation is somehow the natural order of things in the modern world.s.milne@theguardian.com", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Transport", "UK news", "Transport policy", "Economic policy", "Politics", "Public services policy", "Society", "Privatisation", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Seumas Milne: New Zealand is in tune with the times - Britain's lagging"},{"date": "2008-07-24T06:17:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The New Zealand provincial newspaper, the Daily Chronicle, which serves the Horowhenua-Kapiti area north of Wellington, will soon be unable to live up to its title. It is to publish only two days a week, and will be given away free. Its owners, APN - a division of Tony O'Reilly's company, Independent News & Media - said a loss of advertising revenue had contributed to the decision to downsize. (Via New Zealand Herald/NZPA)", "tags": ["Newspapers & magazines", "Media", "New Zealand", "World news", "Anthony O'Reilly", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand daily cuts publication"},{"date": "2008-09-17T14:58:11Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Two New Zealand editors accused of being in contempt of court for publishing information obtained by police surveillance intercepts have defended their actions at a high court hearing in Wellington. Dominion Post editor Tim Pankhurst and Fairfax group executive editor Paul Thompson both denied knowing that they were prohibited from disclosing the communications (Via New Zealand Herald/NZPA) ", "tags": ["Media"], "title": "New Zealand editors fight contempt case"},{"date": "2008-09-01T11:22:14Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A man has been charged with sexually assaulting two British women on holiday in New Zealand.The women, believed to be in their teens, told police they had been subjected to a two-hour sex attack after a man broke into their campervan. Police said today a 29-year-old local man had handed himself in and was later charged with three counts of sexual violation and two of kidnap. The attack happened in the early hours of Friday shortly after the pair returned home after a night out at a bar in Tokomaru Bay on the north coast of the country's North Island, police said.Detective Sergeant Kevin Ford of Gisborne police said the victims had tried to ward off the attack by talking to the man about themselves and their families. \"They did all the right things in terms of trying to personalise the situation by talking to him about who they were and who he was.\" But the man had overpowered both of them and subjected them to a series of sexual assaults over two hours before leaving the campervan. \"It was a horrible ordeal that these two girls went through, not only because of what happened but also due to the prolonged nature of the attack,\" Det Sgt Ford said. Speaking to New Zealand's TV3 television channel, the women said they were determined to continue their holiday. One said: \"He's not going to spoil it for us. He'd be winning.\" In January, Scottish backpacker Karen Aim was murdered as she made her way back from a night out with friends in the North Island resort town of Taupo. But Det Sgt Ford insisted New Zealand was a \"very safe place\" for tourists to visit, adding: \"You can never get away from the fact there will be the odd, isolated incident.\"", "tags": ["UK news", "New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Man charged with sexually assaulting British women in New Zealand"},{"date": "2008-07-02T23:01:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand has long had a record of being ahead of the political game. It was the first country in the world to accept women's right to vote, in 1893. In the 1930s, it emerged as a pioneer of the modern welfare state. Fifty years later, in the 1980s, it was the first state to declare itself nuclear-free. Less creditably, during the same decade, New Zealand became host to the first social democratic government to embrace a free-market programme of wholesale privatisation, liberalisation and deregulation.Named after New Zealand Labour's then finance minister, \"Rogernomics\" was all the rage on the global new right for a time - and laid the ground for neoliberal social democratic governments like Tony Blair's - until it finally imploded amidst a litany of social and economic failures: stagnation, unemployment, bankruptcies, crime and rampant inequality. Two decades on, another New Zealand government, this time a more progressive Labour coalition headed by Helen Clark, is again at the forefront of political change - leading the revival of public ownership.On Tuesday, Clark's government renationalised the country's railways and ferry services, privatised in the early 90s and subsequently run down and asset-stripped by the Australian owners. Launching the new, publicly owned KiwiRail, finance minister Michael Cullen declared that privatisation had \"been a painful lesson for New Zealand\". Nor is this the first renationalisation by the Clark government, which took over Air New Zealand after it nearly collapsed in 2001 and has also built up a successful state-owned retail bank - named Kiwibank, needless to say.And unlike Gordon Brown's government, which strained every nerve to avoid nationalising Northern Rock to avoid seeming \"old Labour\", Clark has championed the takeover of rail as exactly what is needed to build a modern, environmentally sustainable transport network. Against a background of global warming and rising fuel prices, she argues, rail is a \"central part of 21st-century economic infrastructure\". Given Britain's similarly disastrous experience with rail privatisation, you might think that taking a leaf out New Zealand's book would be just the kind of popular policy to help dig Brown's government out of its hole. Despite the modest improvements achieved by putting the lethal Railtrack out of its misery, Britain's railway system remains a byword for bewildering fragmentation, unreliability, overcrowding, delays and exorbitant cost - which has only now completed a high-speed link to the Channel tunnel, 15 years after its state-owned French counterpart. Fleeced by the private train companies and rolling stock contractors (some of them pocketing 30% rates of return), it is now the most expensive, opaque and inefficient rail system in Europe. As the Campaign for Better Transport reported yesterday, walk-on fares are on average nearly five times those booked in advance - and all ticket prices are set to spiral in the next few years. Meanwhile, renationalisation is strongly supported by the public and is in fact official Labour party policy.But far from planning to end what has been a disastrous experiment, the rail minister, Tom Harris, last month insisted that if the Tories hadn't privatised the railways, New Labour would have sold them off when it came to power in 1997. In a surreal aside that will baffle most UK train passengers, he insisted that \"the private railway has provided a level of investment, innovation, imagination that wouldn't have happened if BR had stayed as it was\".This is nonsense. Investment in the railways comes from farepayers and government subsidy, now around three times the level before privatisation (\u00a32bn a year goes to the train operating companies alone), while the leakage of cash from the industry to private investors and lenders is estimated at \u00a3800m a year. The rise in passenger numbers is simply the product of economic growth, and the case for a reintegrated, publicly owned rail system - at the heart of a national investment programme to encourage more people to move off road and air travel on to rail - is overwhelming. It has the added advantage that most services can be taken back at no cost as franchises expire.But the government is still in the grip of an ideology that sees privatisation as the only way to reform the health service, and nationalisation as a throwback to be avoided at all costs. As global economic conditions increasingly undermine the credibility of free-market economics, however, real life is pointing in another direction. The revival of public ownership in countries as diverse as New Zealand and Venezuela reflects a wider disillusionment with the neoliberal experience of the past decade.As the writer and Work Foundation chief executive Will Hutton recently argued in a BBC programme on nationalisation, the takeover of Northern Rock, Railtrack and Metronet has begun to force a mainstream reappraisal of what had become a political taboo - just as academic research has been rehabilitating the productivity and costs record of Britain's postwar nationalised industries.But it's also clear that, if there is going to be an effective new role for public enterprise and intervention, it will have to be about more than bailing out the failures of the private sector in traditional industries, and engage with the cutting edge of the economy. In Britain, the credit crisis has exposed the dangers of the reliance on finance, the rundown of manufacturing, and the chronically low rate of investment in the economy. The case for a national fibre-optic network, for example, giving universal fast broadband access to the home is a powerful one, both on economic and social grounds - countries such as South Korea are far ahead of Britain. But the private sector won't deliver the necessary multibillion pound long-term investment. A publicly owned network, on the other hand, could do - perhaps funded by service providers as part of a universal service obligation, as the Communication Workers Union argues.What is certain is that the Brown government's kneejerk resistance to public intervention and ownership will have to end if it is to have a hope of riding out the crisis and dealing with the new economic reality. By making a stand for progressive common sense, New Zealand has at least helped break the spell that privatisation is somehow the natural order of things in the modern world.s.milne@theguardian.com", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Transport", "UK news", "Transport policy", "Economic policy", "Politics", "Public services policy", "Society", "Privatisation", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Seumas Milne: New Zealand is in tune with the times - Britain's lagging"},{"date": "2008-09-05T06:14:48Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The New Zealand tourist board is aiming to go one better than Australia, which famously ruffled British sensibilities with its \"Where the bloody hell are you?\" ads, and entice Brits with a new TV campaign.Tourism New Zealand's \u00a33m ad campaign taps casual Antipodean vernacular using the line \"What do you say UK?\" and features testimonial-style ads from British people of all ages who have had a fantastic time holidaying in \"the youngest country on earth\".A total of 22 British holiday-makers feature in a series of eight TV commercials, created by NZ ad agency Assignment and rolled out in the UK by WPP-owned JWT, that will dovetail with Tourism New Zealand's existing \"100% Pure\" campaign.Tourism New Zealand is hoping that the classic tactic of peer recommendation might entice more Brits to take the plunge and travel to Lord of the Rings country.Filming of the \"What do you say UK?\" ads will continue throughout the New Zealand summer.The ad campaign, which breaks on Sunday, is the largest that Tourism New Zealand has ever launched in the UK, with an annual budget 75% above what it spent last year.Tourism New Zealand's 100% Pure campaign will run in cinemas and on digital underground escalator panels.The UK is New Zealand's second largest tourist market - behind Australia - with more than 290,000 visitors in the year to the end of June.However, according to reports in New Zealand visitor numbers are down around 3.5% year on year, prompting an unusually UK-specific advertising push.\"[New Zealand's] dream destination status is a double-edged sword for the country,\" admitted Gregg Anderson, the Tourism New Zealand regional manager for the UK and Europe. \"The issue is that we are seen as an aspirational holiday, which means people will hold off travelling to NZ because they want to make it as great a trip as possible,\" Anderson said.Rocketing oil prices have also put significant pressure on the cost of long-distance flights, while the credit crunch has seen many belt-tightening UK consumers look to take holidays closer to home.\u00b7 To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 7278 2332.\u00b7 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["Advertising", "New Zealand holidays", "Media", "Travel"], "title": "New Zealand tourist board aims to outdo Australian rival in UK"},{"date": "2008-11-08T12:53:29Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The New Zealand prime minister, Helen Clark, conceded defeat in the general election today, paving the way for the country's first conservative government in almost a decade.Clark, who told a crowd of supporters \"tonight is not our night\", also said she would stand down as leader of the Labour party.The National party's John Key will become New Zealand's 38th prime minister, ending nine years of rule by Clark.The multimillionaire former foreign currency trader told supporters that New Zealanders had \"voted in their hundreds of thousands for change\", but warned of tough times ahead because of the global economic downturn. Clark, who had been seeking a historic fourth term, appeared to have suffered a crushing loss with more than 90% of the vote counted.As expected, National will have to rely on small allied parties to form a majority in the 122-seat parliament.But Key, 47, will not need the support of the indigenous Maori party, which won five seats but will not hold the balance of power.Key campaigned on a platform of change, invoking the mantra of US president-elect Barack Obama, but also blamed Clark's Labour government for letting the economy fall into recession even before the global financial crisis hit.Clark was also damaged by a series of scandals this year, including fallout from fraud investigations into the party of the former foreign minister Winston Peters. His New Zealand First party appeared to have lost all seven of its seats in parliament, ending Peters' 30-year career as an MP.Key may yet invite the Maori party to join his government to strengthen its majority, something the party leader, Tariana Turia, said would be considered.Clark, 58, became leader of the Labour party in 1993 and was elected as prime minister in 1999.\u00b7 This article was amended on Monday November 10 2008. Helen Clark became prime minister of New Zealand in 1999, not 1998 as we originally said and there are 122, not 123, seats in the New Zealand parliament. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand opposition wins election"},{"date": "2008-11-08T12:53:29Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The New Zealand prime minister, Helen Clark, conceded defeat in the general election today, paving the way for the country's first conservative government in almost a decade.Clark, who told a crowd of supporters \"tonight is not our night\", also said she would stand down as leader of the Labour party.The National party's John Key will become New Zealand's 38th prime minister, ending nine years of rule by Clark.The multimillionaire former foreign currency trader told supporters that New Zealanders had \"voted in their hundreds of thousands for change\", but warned of tough times ahead because of the global economic downturn. Clark, who had been seeking a historic fourth term, appeared to have suffered a crushing loss with more than 90% of the vote counted.As expected, National will have to rely on small allied parties to form a majority in the 122-seat parliament.But Key, 47, will not need the support of the indigenous Maori party, which won five seats but will not hold the balance of power.Key campaigned on a platform of change, invoking the mantra of US president-elect Barack Obama, but also blamed Clark's Labour government for letting the economy fall into recession even before the global financial crisis hit.Clark was also damaged by a series of scandals this year, including fallout from fraud investigations into the party of the former foreign minister Winston Peters. His New Zealand First party appeared to have lost all seven of its seats in parliament, ending Peters' 30-year career as an MP.Key may yet invite the Maori party to join his government to strengthen its majority, something the party leader, Tariana Turia, said would be considered.Clark, 58, became leader of the Labour party in 1993 and was elected as prime minister in 1999.\u00b7 This article was amended on Monday November 10 2008. Helen Clark became prime minister of New Zealand in 1999, not 1998 as we originally said and there are 122, not 123, seats in the New Zealand parliament. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand opposition wins election"},{"date": "2008-11-09T00:01:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "After a week in which the world's focus was on political change in America, New Zealanders have voted for their first conservative government in almost a decade, ending the tenure of one of the world's longest-serving elected female leaders.Conceding defeat, Prime Minister Helen Clark told her supporters: 'Tonight is not our night.'The country's new prime minister will be John Key, a 47-year-old multimillionaire former currency trader and leader of the National party. Key had campaigned on a theme of change, promising to foster a new 'politics of aspiration'. 'In their hundreds and thousands across the country they have voted for change,' Key told supporters in Auckland. 'Today New Zealanders have voted for action, for a safer, more prosperous and more ambitious New Zealand.' Record numbers of people voted in the election, which polls had predicted would spell the end of Labour's nine-year rule.Clark, a 58-year-old former academic and avid wilderness trekker with a serious, even dour, demeanour, has led the country since 1999. She said she would stand down by the end of the year as Labour leader, a post she has held since 1993. Clark said: 'If I couldn't lead the party to victory, then it is time to go.'Clark won re-election in her district and is expected to stay in parliament for the near future. Key campaigned on a platform of change, but also blamed Clark's Labour government for letting the economy fall into recession even before the global financial crisis hit.The indigenous Maori party, led by Tariana Turia, added another seat to the four it has held since 2005 but fell short of winning its target of all seven Maori seats. Key may invite the Maori party to join his government to strengthen its majority, something Turia has said would be considered.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Voters end Labour's rule in New Zealand"},{"date": "2008-11-08T12:53:29Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The New Zealand prime minister, Helen Clark, conceded defeat in the general election today, paving the way for the country's first conservative government in almost a decade.Clark, who told a crowd of supporters \"tonight is not our night\", also said she would stand down as leader of the Labour party.The National party's John Key will become New Zealand's 38th prime minister, ending nine years of rule by Clark.The multimillionaire former foreign currency trader told supporters that New Zealanders had \"voted in their hundreds of thousands for change\", but warned of tough times ahead because of the global economic downturn. Clark, who had been seeking a historic fourth term, appeared to have suffered a crushing loss with more than 90% of the vote counted.As expected, National will have to rely on small allied parties to form a majority in the 122-seat parliament.But Key, 47, will not need the support of the indigenous Maori party, which won five seats but will not hold the balance of power.Key campaigned on a platform of change, invoking the mantra of US president-elect Barack Obama, but also blamed Clark's Labour government for letting the economy fall into recession even before the global financial crisis hit.Clark was also damaged by a series of scandals this year, including fallout from fraud investigations into the party of the former foreign minister Winston Peters. His New Zealand First party appeared to have lost all seven of its seats in parliament, ending Peters' 30-year career as an MP.Key may yet invite the Maori party to join his government to strengthen its majority, something the party leader, Tariana Turia, said would be considered.Clark, 58, became leader of the Labour party in 1993 and was elected as prime minister in 1999.\u00b7 This article was amended on Monday November 10 2008. Helen Clark became prime minister of New Zealand in 1999, not 1998 as we originally said and there are 122, not 123, seats in the New Zealand parliament. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand opposition wins election"},{"date": "2008-11-09T00:01:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "After a week in which the world's focus was on political change in America, New Zealanders have voted for their first conservative government in almost a decade, ending the tenure of one of the world's longest-serving elected female leaders.Conceding defeat, Prime Minister Helen Clark told her supporters: 'Tonight is not our night.'The country's new prime minister will be John Key, a 47-year-old multimillionaire former currency trader and leader of the National party. Key had campaigned on a theme of change, promising to foster a new 'politics of aspiration'. 'In their hundreds and thousands across the country they have voted for change,' Key told supporters in Auckland. 'Today New Zealanders have voted for action, for a safer, more prosperous and more ambitious New Zealand.' Record numbers of people voted in the election, which polls had predicted would spell the end of Labour's nine-year rule.Clark, a 58-year-old former academic and avid wilderness trekker with a serious, even dour, demeanour, has led the country since 1999. She said she would stand down by the end of the year as Labour leader, a post she has held since 1993. Clark said: 'If I couldn't lead the party to victory, then it is time to go.'Clark won re-election in her district and is expected to stay in parliament for the near future. Key campaigned on a platform of change, but also blamed Clark's Labour government for letting the economy fall into recession even before the global financial crisis hit.The indigenous Maori party, led by Tariana Turia, added another seat to the four it has held since 2005 but fell short of winning its target of all seven Maori seats. Key may invite the Maori party to join his government to strengthen its majority, something Turia has said would be considered.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Voters end Labour's rule in New Zealand"},{"date": "2008-10-13T13:21:59Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Cushchine Cottage, KaikouraPosted by kevincoleCushchine Cottage is a small, family-friendly, beautiful, self-catering rental set within an animal farm park. It's an ideal base for all of Kaikoura's attractions (about a mile from the town centre) and includes free access to the Farm Park, and you can help out with their early morning feeding.The cottage has two bedrooms (sleeps up to seven), an equipped kitchen, lounge with wood burner, sofas and TV, free use of a gas barbecue and fabulous views of Mt Fyffe. Towels and bedding are included, and it only costs NZ$100-180 (\u00a335-63) a night (depends on numbers and time of year).We spent two nights in a more expensive motel, before staying an extra night in the rental cottage. We enjoyed it so much, we chose cottages for the rest of our NZ trip!Ask them about a lovely walk to a nearby river, less than a mile away, with two huge natural swimming pools - it's a local secret!\u00b7 12 Kowhai Ford Road; +64 3 319 5033; www.cushchinecottage.co.nzWally's Backpackers, NapierPosted by hcacThis place was hard to find, at least late at night, but it is a clean, stylish and a welcoming hostel with very reasonable rates. Since they seem to screen his guests a bit, it's also quiet and better for the more mature budget traveller which is exactly what I needed. I can't thank them enough for a real bed, comforter, and my two best nights of sleep in weeks.\u00b7 7 Cathedral Lane, Napier; +64 6 833 7930; www.wallysbackpackers.co.nz/Frauenreisehaus women's hostel, ChristchurchPosted by bronsterThis is a friendly, relaxed and comfortable hostel exclusively for women. From the swinging chairs outside in the garden to the multitude of kitchen gadgets (and free coffee, tea and hot chocolate), this is a place to enjoy.\u00b7 272 Barbadoes Street, Christchurch; +64 3 3662585Kaikoura Food Company and Fudge Factory, KaikouraPosted by hcacDespite a sort of funny name, this place surprised me. Out of all the food I've eaten in New Zealand over a two month period, only this one has struck me as a place where they care about the food they make and its presentation and I made sure to let them know. I had their eggs benedict for a brunch time offering and it was outstanding. Two perfectly poached eggs on grilled ciabatta bread with wilted spinach and hollandaise.\u00b7 94 Beach Road, Kaikoura; +64 3 319 7160Fidel's Caf\u00e9, WellingtonPosted by explorer82It may be hidden up the far end of Cuba Street but don't let that put you off. Walk that little bit further because this place has some fantastic coffee and food, especially their iced chocolates and savoury muffins. It has a cool kitsch interior as well as outdoor seating so is a great place to hang out and relax. Check out the local clothing stores on the way down Cuba Street too, especially Frutti and Carly Harris.\u00b7 234 Cuba Street, Wellington; +64 4 801 6868; www.fidelscafe.comC'est la vie (Au Bout du Monde), AkaroaPosted by EledhwenThis quirky little restaurant in the centre of Akaroa is justly recommended in guidebooks. It has precisely two sittings of dinner a day - 6pm and 8.30pm, and woe betide you if you arrive early, you'll have to wait - the menu is written on a blackboard outside the door, and the walls are covered in thanks from satisfied customers. There isn't much room, so book in advance (however rumours of having to book six months in advance are exaggerated). Food is French-influenced but with local produce - the smoked salmon is divine. Prices are equivalent to bigger city restaurants (mains in the NZ$30-35 (\u00a310.50-12) range) but it's well worth it!\u00b7 33 Rue Lavaud, Akaroa; +64 3 304 7314Amisfield Winery, Central OtagoPosted by RogerNBCentral Otago has more than its fair share of wineries where you can enjoy tastings and/or a great meal among some of New Zealand's finest scenery.One of my favourites is the Amisfield Winery, which is halfway between Queenstown and Arrowtown on the shores of Lake Hayes. It's a fantastic place for a relaxed lunch or dinner with a great outdoor terrace (weather permitting). If they've got any left, try their rose but I'm afraid I may have drunk it all on my last visit.\u00b7 10 Lake Hayes Road, RD 1, Queenstown; +64 3 442 0556; www.amisfield.co.nzHuka Jet, TaupoPosted by kamaThe Huka Jet is a 30-minute high-speed jet boating experience that shows you the spectacular Huka Falls and whizzes you past cliffs at 80km per hour. It does a 360 degree spin, and, at times, you get so close to the cliff walls that you can almost feel them graze your ears!Afterwards, lunch at the Huka Prawn Park right next to the Huka Jet is delicious.\u00b7 Wairakei Park, Taupo; +64 7 374 8572; www.hukafallsjet.com/page/5-HomeDoubtful SoundPosted by simonplattMore remote, much bigger and far less crowded than the more well-known Milford Sound, Doubtful Sound is one of those rare places that justifies the word \"awesome\".Book an overnight tour on a three-masted boat and discover a place that is equal part-myth and geology. You can launch a kayak off the boat and explore one of the Sound's many creeks up close, as the cliffs tower above you and the water flows like molten glass beneath your oars.Then it's back on board for a hot shower, a glass of wine and the camaraderie of people who've shared something quite spellbinding.\u00b7 Corner of Town Centre & Mokonui Streets, Te Anau; +64 3 249 7416; www.realjourneys.co.nz/Main/Doubtful/Kayak to Rangitoto IslandPosted by cparkyDon't just admire the stunning Rangitoto in the middle of the harbour - paddle there! A guided round trip takes six hours including a climb to the summit for great views of the city and harbour. For extra credibility try the evening option. It was amazing paddling back across the harbour in the dark, just a row of little lights bobbing across the silent water with the city around us. Fantastic.\u00b7 12 Tamaki Drive, Okahu Bay, Auckland; +64 9 529 2230; www.fergskayaks.co.nzThe Tongariro CrossingPosted by nilpferdThe crossing is a day-trip across the extinct volcano of Mt. Tongariro. It requires some effort, but the rewards are worth it once you reach the moon-landscape and startling colours of the upper crater. To the south lies the still active cone Ngauruhoe, and to the north lake Taupo, which is a caldera resulting from one of the largest ever supervolcanic eruptions. The descent through tussock and native bush rounds off the trip nicely.\u00b7 www.tongarirocrossing.org.nzDrive the Milford Road from Te AnauPosted by PlisskenThe plane flight in from Queenstown is spectacular, but the drive from Te Anau is easily its equal. The books say allow two hours for the 120km drive but to be honest, give yourself three and enjoy the spectacular journey. The best place to view keas (alpine parrots) is at the entrance to the Homer Tunnel.Te Ngaere Bay, NorthlandPosted by explorer82When heading north out of Kerikeri most people will turn off to visit or camp at Matauri Bay. This place is fantastic for swimming, fishing, walking and diving amongst other activities. But make sure you follow the road around to the next bay for a visit. Te Ngaere Bay is a quieter and more secluded area which has lots to offer. There's easy access for boats so it's a great place to go fishing, kids will enjoy the rock pools for exploring and the beach is perfect for swimming. Allow a full day to properly enjoy the surroundings.GisbornePosted by oceaniadawnGisborne is on the east coast of the North Island and is a place few tourists venture to. I love it because the coastline is so beautiful.Ignore the main beach in town. Instead head north through the township and stop at Wainui beach or go over the hill to Makorori (where the surfers go).Both beaches are beautiful and are sandfly-free (really!). There are some fantastic restaurants in Gisborne, and one of the best bookshops in NZ (Muirs). The whole East Cape is beautiful, and worth a visit if you have the time.\u00b7 gisbornenz.com/", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Cultural trips", "Hotels", "Travel", "Food and drink", "Beach holidays", "Adventure travel"], "title": "Insider tips to New Zealand"},{"date": "2009-03-20T11:57:59Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A hatchling of a rare reptile with lineage dating back to the dinosaur age has been found in the wild on the New Zealand mainland for the first time in about 200 years, a wildlife official said yesterday.The baby tuatara was discovered by staff during routine maintenance work at the Karori Wildlife Sanctuary in the capital, Wellington, said conservation manager Raewyn Empson.\"We are all absolutely thrilled with this discovery,\" added Empson. \"It means we have successfully re-established a breeding population back on the mainland, which is a massive breakthrough for New Zealand conservation.\"Tuatara, which measure up to 80cm (32in) when fully grown, are the last descendants of a lizard-like reptile species that walked the Earth with the dinosaurs 225 million years ago, zoologists say.There are estimated to be about 50,000 of them living in the wild on 32 small offshore islands cleared of predators, but this is the first time a hatchling has been seen on the mainland in about 200 years.The New Zealand natives were nearly extinct on the country's three main islands by the late 1700s due to the introduction of predators such as rats.Empson said the hatchling is thought to be about one month old and likely came from an egg laid about 16 months ago. Two nests of eggs the size of ping pong balls were unearthed in the sanctuary last year and tuatara were expected to hatch around this time.\"He is unlikely to be the only baby to have hatched this season, but seeing him was an incredible fluke,\" she said.The youngster faces a tough journey to maturity despite being in the 250 hectare (620-acre) sanctuary and protected by a predator-proof fence. It will have to run from the cannibalistic adult tuatara, and would make a tasty snack for birds of prey, Empson said.\"Like all the wildlife living here, he'll just have to take his chances,\" Empson said.\"They've been extinct on the mainland for a long time,\" said Lindsay Hazley, tuatara curator at the Southland Museum and Art Gallery on South Island. He added that \"you can breed tuatara by eliminating risk, but to have results like this among many natural predators (like native birds) is a positive sign.\"About 200 tuatara have been released since 2005 into the Karori Sanctuary, which was established to breed native birds, insects and other creatures.Tuatara have unique characteristics, such as two rows of top teeth closing over one row at the bottom and a parietal eye, a dot on the top of the skull that is believed to be light-sensitive and is sometimes referred to as the animal's third eye.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Animals", "World news", "New Zealand", "Environment", "Science", "Dinosaurs", "Evolution", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Rare reptile tuatara hatchling spotted in New Zealand"},{"date": "2009-05-04T19:48:15Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "British consumers are creating record demand for quality New Zealand wine, retailers report, as a result of an unprecedented harvest.With the largest ever volumes available to UK retailers at substantially lower prices, the greater value for money of New Zealand wines has created a stir in the market. In contrast the strength of the euro has made traditionally favourite wines from France, Italy, Spain and Germany more expensive.New figures from researchers AC Nielsen show that New Zealand wines are selling more than the market average \u2013 an exception to the decline most countries are facing during the harsh economic climate. While UK volume growth of New Zealand wines over the last year was already strong at 11.5%, in the last 12 weeks sales have rocketed by 42%, the data shows.An example is New Zealand sauvignon blanc. It has become Tesco's bestselling wine with sales in the last fortnight up 370% compared with the same period last year.Tesco wine category manager Andrew Carpenter said: \"New Zealand sauvignon blanc is more accessible that ever before and is currently out performing long established favourites such as French chablis and Australian chardonnay.The development of New Zealand's wine production from its early days in the 1970s has gathered at an astonishing rate. The number of wineries has rapidly increased and in 2008 the country crushed 285,000 tonnes of grapes \u2013 up 39% on 2007. Quality is also increasing as vines mature and winemaking methods are refined.", "tags": ["Wine", "Food & drink industry", "Economics", "Business", "Life and style", "New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand wine outshines EU favourites"},{"date": "2009-05-04T19:48:15Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "British consumers are creating record demand for quality New Zealand wine, retailers report, as a result of an unprecedented harvest.With the largest ever volumes available to UK retailers at substantially lower prices, the greater value for money of New Zealand wines has created a stir in the market. In contrast the strength of the euro has made traditionally favourite wines from France, Italy, Spain and Germany more expensive.New figures from researchers AC Nielsen show that New Zealand wines are selling more than the market average \u2013 an exception to the decline most countries are facing during the harsh economic climate. While UK volume growth of New Zealand wines over the last year was already strong at 11.5%, in the last 12 weeks sales have rocketed by 42%, the data shows.An example is New Zealand sauvignon blanc. It has become Tesco's bestselling wine with sales in the last fortnight up 370% compared with the same period last year.Tesco wine category manager Andrew Carpenter said: \"New Zealand sauvignon blanc is more accessible that ever before and is currently out performing long established favourites such as French chablis and Australian chardonnay.The development of New Zealand's wine production from its early days in the 1970s has gathered at an astonishing rate. The number of wineries has rapidly increased and in 2008 the country crushed 285,000 tonnes of grapes \u2013 up 39% on 2007. Quality is also increasing as vines mature and winemaking methods are refined.", "tags": ["Wine", "Food & drink industry", "Economics", "Business", "Life and style", "New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand wine outshines EU favourites"},{"date": "2009-05-21T09:55:27Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "There used to be a British bank that liked to say \"yes\" \u2013 but a bank in New Zealand has gone a step further in responding to a couple's plea for an overdraft.It mistakenly deposited NZ$10m (\u00a33.85m) \u2013 1,000 times the requested amount \u2013 into their account.And the temptation seems to have been too much. After withdrawing some of the money the couple disappeared from a service station they ran in Rotorua, about 150 miles south of Auckland.Media in the country suggested they may have fled to Korea or China, and police have asked Interpol for help.The bank, Westpac, which has reportedly recovered NZ$4m, said it was \"pursuing vigorous criminal and civil action to recover the sum of money stolen\". It refused to confirm the exact amount involved.The New Zealand Herald reported a bank spokesman as saying human error was responsible for the mistake and that the bank was reviewing its procedures. The paper named the couple as Leo Gao and his girlfriend Cara Young.A neighbour said the service station was open on 7 May, but the next day it was closed and a notice said it was in receivership.New Zealand's banking ombudsman told the Daily Post in Rotorua that it was a criminal offence to spend money mistakenly put into bank accounts if the holders knew it was not their own.Claire Matthews, a lecturer in banking at Massey University, told Newstalk ZB in Auckland: \"They've taken funds they're not entitled to, that are not theirs. They've effectively, I guess, become thieves.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand couple go on run after \u00a33.8m bank error"},{"date": "2009-05-04T19:48:15Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "British consumers are creating record demand for quality New Zealand wine, retailers report, as a result of an unprecedented harvest.With the largest ever volumes available to UK retailers at substantially lower prices, the greater value for money of New Zealand wines has created a stir in the market. In contrast the strength of the euro has made traditionally favourite wines from France, Italy, Spain and Germany more expensive.New figures from researchers AC Nielsen show that New Zealand wines are selling more than the market average \u2013 an exception to the decline most countries are facing during the harsh economic climate. While UK volume growth of New Zealand wines over the last year was already strong at 11.5%, in the last 12 weeks sales have rocketed by 42%, the data shows.An example is New Zealand sauvignon blanc. It has become Tesco's bestselling wine with sales in the last fortnight up 370% compared with the same period last year.Tesco wine category manager Andrew Carpenter said: \"New Zealand sauvignon blanc is more accessible that ever before and is currently out performing long established favourites such as French chablis and Australian chardonnay.The development of New Zealand's wine production from its early days in the 1970s has gathered at an astonishing rate. The number of wineries has rapidly increased and in 2008 the country crushed 285,000 tonnes of grapes \u2013 up 39% on 2007. Quality is also increasing as vines mature and winemaking methods are refined.", "tags": ["Wine", "Food & drink industry", "Economics", "Business", "Life and style", "New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand wine outshines EU favourites"},{"date": "2009-05-21T09:55:27Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "There used to be a British bank that liked to say \"yes\" \u2013 but a bank in New Zealand has gone a step further in responding to a couple's plea for an overdraft.It mistakenly deposited NZ$10m (\u00a33.85m) \u2013 1,000 times the requested amount \u2013 into their account.And the temptation seems to have been too much. After withdrawing some of the money the couple disappeared from a service station they ran in Rotorua, about 150 miles south of Auckland.Media in the country suggested they may have fled to Korea or China, and police have asked Interpol for help.The bank, Westpac, which has reportedly recovered NZ$4m, said it was \"pursuing vigorous criminal and civil action to recover the sum of money stolen\". It refused to confirm the exact amount involved.The New Zealand Herald reported a bank spokesman as saying human error was responsible for the mistake and that the bank was reviewing its procedures. The paper named the couple as Leo Gao and his girlfriend Cara Young.A neighbour said the service station was open on 7 May, but the next day it was closed and a notice said it was in receivership.New Zealand's banking ombudsman told the Daily Post in Rotorua that it was a criminal offence to spend money mistakenly put into bank accounts if the holders knew it was not their own.Claire Matthews, a lecturer in banking at Massey University, told Newstalk ZB in Auckland: \"They've taken funds they're not entitled to, that are not theirs. They've effectively, I guess, become thieves.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand couple go on run after \u00a33.8m bank error"},{"date": "2009-04-22T23:01:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Magnificent landscape. Decent people. Good food. It's just a pity about the daft flag and cringe-making anthem. And the name. New Zealand. To be christened in honour of a damp province at the bottom of Holland. The shame of it. Little wonder so many kiwis (ambitiously, we name ourselves after nocturnal, flightless birds) now prefer to call their home Aotearoa - a Maori word for \"land of the long white cloud\".But a fresh etymological row has shaken this Pacific paradise. The two main land masses, it's emerged, have no formal names. Don Grant, chairman of the New Zealand Geographic Board, says that \"North Island and South Island are actually not official names under our legislation, despite their common long-term usage\". He has launched a consultation to consider formalising alternative Maori names or even adopting new English ones.The most commonly used Maori names are Te Ika a Maui for the North Island and Te Wai Pounamu for the South Island. Te Ika-a-Maui means \"the fish of Maui\" (in a particularly successful fishing expedition, the puckish hero of Maori mythology hooked a big one, which transmogrified into an island). Te Wai Pounamu means \"the waters of greenstone\" (the island has lots of water and the precious stone pounamu).Leaving to one side the important debate in New Zealand about restoring Maori placenames - and let's not be distracted by the atypically tricky North Island landmark Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateaturipukakapikimaungahoronukupokaiwhenuakitanatahu (\"the summit of the hill, where Tamatea, the man with the big knees, who slid down, climbed up and swallowed mountains, and is known as the Land Eater, played his flute to his loved one\") - the opportunity to rename the islands has prompted a veritable trickle of suggestions. One New Zealand newspaper, hilariously, suggested the islands be renamed \"fush and chups\" or \"Kiri and Te Kanawa\". To which might be added bach and crib (beach-house designations), or Hokey and Pokey, or jandals and gumboots. But the truth is that New Zealanders are unlikely to abandon the perfectly serviceable, if unadventurous, designations North and South Island.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "New Zealand holidays", "World news", "Travel", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Toby Manhire on what to call New Zealand's North and South Islands"},{"date": "2009-05-04T19:48:15Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "British consumers are creating record demand for quality New Zealand wine, retailers report, as a result of an unprecedented harvest.With the largest ever volumes available to UK retailers at substantially lower prices, the greater value for money of New Zealand wines has created a stir in the market. In contrast the strength of the euro has made traditionally favourite wines from France, Italy, Spain and Germany more expensive.New figures from researchers AC Nielsen show that New Zealand wines are selling more than the market average \u2013 an exception to the decline most countries are facing during the harsh economic climate. While UK volume growth of New Zealand wines over the last year was already strong at 11.5%, in the last 12 weeks sales have rocketed by 42%, the data shows.An example is New Zealand sauvignon blanc. It has become Tesco's bestselling wine with sales in the last fortnight up 370% compared with the same period last year.Tesco wine category manager Andrew Carpenter said: \"New Zealand sauvignon blanc is more accessible that ever before and is currently out performing long established favourites such as French chablis and Australian chardonnay.The development of New Zealand's wine production from its early days in the 1970s has gathered at an astonishing rate. The number of wineries has rapidly increased and in 2008 the country crushed 285,000 tonnes of grapes \u2013 up 39% on 2007. Quality is also increasing as vines mature and winemaking methods are refined.", "tags": ["Wine", "Food & drink industry", "Economics", "Business", "Life and style", "New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand wine outshines EU favourites"},{"date": "2009-05-21T09:55:27Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "There used to be a British bank that liked to say \"yes\" \u2013 but a bank in New Zealand has gone a step further in responding to a couple's plea for an overdraft.It mistakenly deposited NZ$10m (\u00a33.85m) \u2013 1,000 times the requested amount \u2013 into their account.And the temptation seems to have been too much. After withdrawing some of the money the couple disappeared from a service station they ran in Rotorua, about 150 miles south of Auckland.Media in the country suggested they may have fled to Korea or China, and police have asked Interpol for help.The bank, Westpac, which has reportedly recovered NZ$4m, said it was \"pursuing vigorous criminal and civil action to recover the sum of money stolen\". It refused to confirm the exact amount involved.The New Zealand Herald reported a bank spokesman as saying human error was responsible for the mistake and that the bank was reviewing its procedures. The paper named the couple as Leo Gao and his girlfriend Cara Young.A neighbour said the service station was open on 7 May, but the next day it was closed and a notice said it was in receivership.New Zealand's banking ombudsman told the Daily Post in Rotorua that it was a criminal offence to spend money mistakenly put into bank accounts if the holders knew it was not their own.Claire Matthews, a lecturer in banking at Massey University, told Newstalk ZB in Auckland: \"They've taken funds they're not entitled to, that are not theirs. They've effectively, I guess, become thieves.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand couple go on run after \u00a33.8m bank error"},{"date": "2009-04-22T23:01:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Magnificent landscape. Decent people. Good food. It's just a pity about the daft flag and cringe-making anthem. And the name. New Zealand. To be christened in honour of a damp province at the bottom of Holland. The shame of it. Little wonder so many kiwis (ambitiously, we name ourselves after nocturnal, flightless birds) now prefer to call their home Aotearoa - a Maori word for \"land of the long white cloud\".But a fresh etymological row has shaken this Pacific paradise. The two main land masses, it's emerged, have no formal names. Don Grant, chairman of the New Zealand Geographic Board, says that \"North Island and South Island are actually not official names under our legislation, despite their common long-term usage\". He has launched a consultation to consider formalising alternative Maori names or even adopting new English ones.The most commonly used Maori names are Te Ika a Maui for the North Island and Te Wai Pounamu for the South Island. Te Ika-a-Maui means \"the fish of Maui\" (in a particularly successful fishing expedition, the puckish hero of Maori mythology hooked a big one, which transmogrified into an island). Te Wai Pounamu means \"the waters of greenstone\" (the island has lots of water and the precious stone pounamu).Leaving to one side the important debate in New Zealand about restoring Maori placenames - and let's not be distracted by the atypically tricky North Island landmark Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateaturipukakapikimaungahoronukupokaiwhenuakitanatahu (\"the summit of the hill, where Tamatea, the man with the big knees, who slid down, climbed up and swallowed mountains, and is known as the Land Eater, played his flute to his loved one\") - the opportunity to rename the islands has prompted a veritable trickle of suggestions. One New Zealand newspaper, hilariously, suggested the islands be renamed \"fush and chups\" or \"Kiri and Te Kanawa\". To which might be added bach and crib (beach-house designations), or Hokey and Pokey, or jandals and gumboots. But the truth is that New Zealanders are unlikely to abandon the perfectly serviceable, if unadventurous, designations North and South Island.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "New Zealand holidays", "World news", "Travel", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Toby Manhire on what to call New Zealand's North and South Islands"},{"date": "2009-05-22T09:18:58Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Many parents of toddlers would probably admit, if guiltily, to enjoying a profound sense of relief when their children finally learn to play on their own.But those extra minutes in bed can come at a cost. In the case of the parents of Pipi Quinlan, the price of allowing their three-year-old free rein in the house before breakfast could have been \u00a38,000 after she sat down at the computer and purchased a full-size mechanical digger online.Pipi, from Stanmore Bay, north of Auckland in New Zealand, opened an internet browser and found the TradeMe auction site her mother had logged on to the day before to look for toy excavators.\"The first I knew of it was when I came down and opened up the computer,\" Pipi's mother, Sarah, told the Rodney Times. \"I saw an email from TradeMe saying I had won an auction and another from the seller saying something like 'I think you'll love this digger'.\"She added that she had made auction bids on several toy sets and assumed she had bought a toy digger.\"It wasn't until I went back and reread the emails that I saw $20,000 \u2013 and got the shock of my life.\"She immediately called the auction site and the seller to explain what happened.TradeMe reimbursed the seller's costs for the auction and the Kobelco digger was relisted. The computer is now kept out of Pipi's reach.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand toddler buys \u00a38,000 digger online"},{"date": "2009-07-22T12:36:04Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "As countries with strong national identities, it can safely be said that Australia and New Zealand are worlds apart. However, a strong earthquake in the region has brought the fierce rivals closer \u2013 30cm to be precise.The 7.8-magnitude quake appears to have jolted the South Island and moved it towards Australia, the New Zealand Herald reported.Global positioning systems showed that Te Anau, a town in the remote Fiordland region, was now 10cm closer to Australia, it said, while the South Island's south-western tip, Puysegur Point, was 30cm (11.8ins) closer.Ken Gledhill, director of the research organisation GNS Science GeoNet, told TVNZ that the changes showed the immensity of the forces involved.\"New Zealand has been very fortunate. This earthquake anywhere else would have caused huge damage,\" he said.\"It's taken us closer to Australia. The country is deforming all the time because of being on the plate boundary, but this has done it in a few seconds, rather than waiting hundreds of years.\"Although the earthquake was New Zealand's biggest in 78 years, it caused only slight damage to buildings and property when it struck Fiordland, west of Invercargill, New Zealand's southernmost and westernmost city, last Thursday.The mayor of Invercargill, Tim Shadbolt, told Radio New Zealand News that he welcomed the fact that parts of the country were now closer to Australia.\"I'm absolutely delighted. I built an international airport in Invercargill because we're the closest city in New Zealand to Australia and it will become more and more realistic the closer we get,\" he said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Australia news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Australia weather", "South Australia"], "title": "Earthquake brings New Zealand closer to Australia"},{"date": "2009-07-22T12:36:04Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "As countries with strong national identities, it can safely be said that Australia and New Zealand are worlds apart. However, a strong earthquake in the region has brought the fierce rivals closer \u2013 30cm to be precise.The 7.8-magnitude quake appears to have jolted the South Island and moved it towards Australia, the New Zealand Herald reported.Global positioning systems showed that Te Anau, a town in the remote Fiordland region, was now 10cm closer to Australia, it said, while the South Island's south-western tip, Puysegur Point, was 30cm (11.8ins) closer.Ken Gledhill, director of the research organisation GNS Science GeoNet, told TVNZ that the changes showed the immensity of the forces involved.\"New Zealand has been very fortunate. This earthquake anywhere else would have caused huge damage,\" he said.\"It's taken us closer to Australia. The country is deforming all the time because of being on the plate boundary, but this has done it in a few seconds, rather than waiting hundreds of years.\"Although the earthquake was New Zealand's biggest in 78 years, it caused only slight damage to buildings and property when it struck Fiordland, west of Invercargill, New Zealand's southernmost and westernmost city, last Thursday.The mayor of Invercargill, Tim Shadbolt, told Radio New Zealand News that he welcomed the fact that parts of the country were now closer to Australia.\"I'm absolutely delighted. I built an international airport in Invercargill because we're the closest city in New Zealand to Australia and it will become more and more realistic the closer we get,\" he said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Australia news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Australia weather", "South Australia"], "title": "Earthquake brings New Zealand closer to Australia"},{"date": "2009-09-17T00:41:53Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A three-year-old girl and two women from the UK were killed in a car crash in New Zealand yesterday.The accident happened at around 6.20pm local time (7.20am BST) when their car crashed into a power pole in New Brighton, a coastal suburb of Christchurch on New Zealand's south island.Two women, 60 and 68, were killed in the crash alongside the toddler. The male driver, who is in his 60s, is in hospital with non-life threatening injuries, local police said last night.It is believed one of the women died at the scene while the girl and the other woman died in hospital.Detective Sergeant Andrew Fabish, of New Brighton police, said all those travelling in the car had recently arrived as visitors from the UK. \"Fatigue is likely to be a factor,\" he said.Next of kin have been informed.New Brighton is a popular tourist destination thanks to its bird life and long sandy beachfront.Maggie Leak, from New Zealand police, told the BBC last night that conditions were clear when the crash happened.\"It's just a suburban locality and it would have been a beautiful evening in Christchurch last night. It's spring here and it's really still light at that time. It was a beautiful still, clear evening,\" she said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "UK news", "Asia Pacific", "Christchurch"], "title": "Girl aged three among three Britons killed in New Zealand car crash"},{"date": "2009-07-22T12:36:04Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "As countries with strong national identities, it can safely be said that Australia and New Zealand are worlds apart. However, a strong earthquake in the region has brought the fierce rivals closer \u2013 30cm to be precise.The 7.8-magnitude quake appears to have jolted the South Island and moved it towards Australia, the New Zealand Herald reported.Global positioning systems showed that Te Anau, a town in the remote Fiordland region, was now 10cm closer to Australia, it said, while the South Island's south-western tip, Puysegur Point, was 30cm (11.8ins) closer.Ken Gledhill, director of the research organisation GNS Science GeoNet, told TVNZ that the changes showed the immensity of the forces involved.\"New Zealand has been very fortunate. This earthquake anywhere else would have caused huge damage,\" he said.\"It's taken us closer to Australia. The country is deforming all the time because of being on the plate boundary, but this has done it in a few seconds, rather than waiting hundreds of years.\"Although the earthquake was New Zealand's biggest in 78 years, it caused only slight damage to buildings and property when it struck Fiordland, west of Invercargill, New Zealand's southernmost and westernmost city, last Thursday.The mayor of Invercargill, Tim Shadbolt, told Radio New Zealand News that he welcomed the fact that parts of the country were now closer to Australia.\"I'm absolutely delighted. I built an international airport in Invercargill because we're the closest city in New Zealand to Australia and it will become more and more realistic the closer we get,\" he said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Australia news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Australia weather", "South Australia"], "title": "Earthquake brings New Zealand closer to Australia"},{"date": "2009-09-17T00:41:53Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A three-year-old girl and two women from the UK were killed in a car crash in New Zealand yesterday.The accident happened at around 6.20pm local time (7.20am BST) when their car crashed into a power pole in New Brighton, a coastal suburb of Christchurch on New Zealand's south island.Two women, 60 and 68, were killed in the crash alongside the toddler. The male driver, who is in his 60s, is in hospital with non-life threatening injuries, local police said last night.It is believed one of the women died at the scene while the girl and the other woman died in hospital.Detective Sergeant Andrew Fabish, of New Brighton police, said all those travelling in the car had recently arrived as visitors from the UK. \"Fatigue is likely to be a factor,\" he said.Next of kin have been informed.New Brighton is a popular tourist destination thanks to its bird life and long sandy beachfront.Maggie Leak, from New Zealand police, told the BBC last night that conditions were clear when the crash happened.\"It's just a suburban locality and it would have been a beautiful evening in Christchurch last night. It's spring here and it's really still light at that time. It was a beautiful still, clear evening,\" she said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "UK news", "Asia Pacific", "Christchurch"], "title": "Girl aged three among three Britons killed in New Zealand car crash"},{"date": "2009-09-08T08:00:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "It was a warm, sunny day, so after a quick lunch we drove to one of Auckland's regional parks. We passed through suburbs with spring blossoms: white magnolias and pink-flowered cherry trees.Duder Regional Park is on a peninsula with high cliffs. The original farmhouse, not part of the park, is on flat land by the coast at the base of the peninsula. We walked up a gentle track past fenced gullies with remnants of native forest through bright green fields. The rolling, sheep-grazed hills reminded us of England.A ewe, hugely swollen on each side, watched as we entered a field where lambing was in progress. One ewe had a tiny lamb suckling, wagging its tail vigorously. On the ground nearby lay another lamb. Its umbilical cord had been cut by the mother. The lamb was still covered by yellow brown foetal membranes though its face had been licked clean. It lay there twitching, ignored by its mother.Should we do something to help or would helping a sickly lamb allow an adverse genetic trait to spread and weaken the flock? Not knowing either the answer or what we could do, we walked on past small, sleeping lambs and others, alert and watching our every move. One even tried to adopt us.It was a pleasant walk to the end of the peninsula where earthworks marked the site of an abandoned Maori pa, a native New Zealand fort, rather like iron age hill forts in Britain. After inspecting the pa and admiring the island-covered sea and wide blue sky, we set off back the way we came.The mother now had a third lamb, which she was licking clean as it searched for a teat. The second lamb, which we had thought near to death, had been cleaned and was walking around confidently. The mothers of all placental mammals must have the instinct to cut the umbilical cord and to clean their newly born, and the newly born need to know instinctively where to find the life-giving teats.Today we are far removed from many of our basic instincts. We readily intervene to save the individual to the possible detriment of the wellbeing of the species. The regional parks provide an opportunity to experience something of rural life, though on our drive home I wondered how many visitors realise that the white fluffy lambs they see are the source of meat in the supermarket and on their dinner plate.", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "Lamb"], "title": "New Zealand: what shall we do with the helpless lamb?"},{"date": "2009-07-22T12:36:04Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "As countries with strong national identities, it can safely be said that Australia and New Zealand are worlds apart. However, a strong earthquake in the region has brought the fierce rivals closer \u2013 30cm to be precise.The 7.8-magnitude quake appears to have jolted the South Island and moved it towards Australia, the New Zealand Herald reported.Global positioning systems showed that Te Anau, a town in the remote Fiordland region, was now 10cm closer to Australia, it said, while the South Island's south-western tip, Puysegur Point, was 30cm (11.8ins) closer.Ken Gledhill, director of the research organisation GNS Science GeoNet, told TVNZ that the changes showed the immensity of the forces involved.\"New Zealand has been very fortunate. This earthquake anywhere else would have caused huge damage,\" he said.\"It's taken us closer to Australia. The country is deforming all the time because of being on the plate boundary, but this has done it in a few seconds, rather than waiting hundreds of years.\"Although the earthquake was New Zealand's biggest in 78 years, it caused only slight damage to buildings and property when it struck Fiordland, west of Invercargill, New Zealand's southernmost and westernmost city, last Thursday.The mayor of Invercargill, Tim Shadbolt, told Radio New Zealand News that he welcomed the fact that parts of the country were now closer to Australia.\"I'm absolutely delighted. I built an international airport in Invercargill because we're the closest city in New Zealand to Australia and it will become more and more realistic the closer we get,\" he said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Australia news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Australia weather", "South Australia"], "title": "Earthquake brings New Zealand closer to Australia"},{"date": "2009-09-17T00:41:53Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A three-year-old girl and two women from the UK were killed in a car crash in New Zealand yesterday.The accident happened at around 6.20pm local time (7.20am BST) when their car crashed into a power pole in New Brighton, a coastal suburb of Christchurch on New Zealand's south island.Two women, 60 and 68, were killed in the crash alongside the toddler. The male driver, who is in his 60s, is in hospital with non-life threatening injuries, local police said last night.It is believed one of the women died at the scene while the girl and the other woman died in hospital.Detective Sergeant Andrew Fabish, of New Brighton police, said all those travelling in the car had recently arrived as visitors from the UK. \"Fatigue is likely to be a factor,\" he said.Next of kin have been informed.New Brighton is a popular tourist destination thanks to its bird life and long sandy beachfront.Maggie Leak, from New Zealand police, told the BBC last night that conditions were clear when the crash happened.\"It's just a suburban locality and it would have been a beautiful evening in Christchurch last night. It's spring here and it's really still light at that time. It was a beautiful still, clear evening,\" she said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "UK news", "Asia Pacific", "Christchurch"], "title": "Girl aged three among three Britons killed in New Zealand car crash"},{"date": "2009-09-08T08:00:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "It was a warm, sunny day, so after a quick lunch we drove to one of Auckland's regional parks. We passed through suburbs with spring blossoms: white magnolias and pink-flowered cherry trees.Duder Regional Park is on a peninsula with high cliffs. The original farmhouse, not part of the park, is on flat land by the coast at the base of the peninsula. We walked up a gentle track past fenced gullies with remnants of native forest through bright green fields. The rolling, sheep-grazed hills reminded us of England.A ewe, hugely swollen on each side, watched as we entered a field where lambing was in progress. One ewe had a tiny lamb suckling, wagging its tail vigorously. On the ground nearby lay another lamb. Its umbilical cord had been cut by the mother. The lamb was still covered by yellow brown foetal membranes though its face had been licked clean. It lay there twitching, ignored by its mother.Should we do something to help or would helping a sickly lamb allow an adverse genetic trait to spread and weaken the flock? Not knowing either the answer or what we could do, we walked on past small, sleeping lambs and others, alert and watching our every move. One even tried to adopt us.It was a pleasant walk to the end of the peninsula where earthworks marked the site of an abandoned Maori pa, a native New Zealand fort, rather like iron age hill forts in Britain. After inspecting the pa and admiring the island-covered sea and wide blue sky, we set off back the way we came.The mother now had a third lamb, which she was licking clean as it searched for a teat. The second lamb, which we had thought near to death, had been cleaned and was walking around confidently. The mothers of all placental mammals must have the instinct to cut the umbilical cord and to clean their newly born, and the newly born need to know instinctively where to find the life-giving teats.Today we are far removed from many of our basic instincts. We readily intervene to save the individual to the possible detriment of the wellbeing of the species. The regional parks provide an opportunity to experience something of rural life, though on our drive home I wondered how many visitors realise that the white fluffy lambs they see are the source of meat in the supermarket and on their dinner plate.", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "Lamb"], "title": "New Zealand: what shall we do with the helpless lamb?"},{"date": "2009-08-24T15:46:14Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The father of a British law graduate killed riverboarding in New Zealand has said he hopes his daughter's death will change the way extreme sports are run.Emily Jordan, 21, of Trimpley, Worcestershire, drowned in the Kawarau river gorge on New Zealand's South Island in April 2008.Today the company that organised the trip pleaded guilty to two charges relating to her death. The sport involves riding a body board on rapids.Black Sheep Adventures Ltd, trading as Mad Dog River Boarding, and Brad McLeod, the company director, had previously both denied three charges of failing to ensure the safety of their customers. All charges against McLeod and one against Black Sheep Adventures were dropped, with the company pleading guilty to the remaining two.Queenstown district court heard that guides from Mad Dog River Boarding did not carry ropes and that the company's safety plan fell short of national standards.Emily was trapped underwater for 20 minutes until another boat carrying ropes arrived and freed her body on 29 April 2008.Emily's father, Chris, went to New Zealand for the court hearing. He told Radio New Zealand he wanted to cut the number of deaths from such activities.\"To just reduce the horrendous deaths that occur in some of these extreme sports would be my primary aim, my primary reason for coming over [from Britain] this week,\" he said. He added that he hoped to \"see some changes taking place with regard to the way river boarding in particular was run \u2013 and to some other extreme sports in general\".Black Sheep Adventures will be sentenced under New Zealand's health and safety laws tomorrow.", "tags": ["UK news", "New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Firm admits charges in New Zealand riverboarding death"},{"date": "2009-07-22T12:36:04Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "As countries with strong national identities, it can safely be said that Australia and New Zealand are worlds apart. However, a strong earthquake in the region has brought the fierce rivals closer \u2013 30cm to be precise.The 7.8-magnitude quake appears to have jolted the South Island and moved it towards Australia, the New Zealand Herald reported.Global positioning systems showed that Te Anau, a town in the remote Fiordland region, was now 10cm closer to Australia, it said, while the South Island's south-western tip, Puysegur Point, was 30cm (11.8ins) closer.Ken Gledhill, director of the research organisation GNS Science GeoNet, told TVNZ that the changes showed the immensity of the forces involved.\"New Zealand has been very fortunate. This earthquake anywhere else would have caused huge damage,\" he said.\"It's taken us closer to Australia. The country is deforming all the time because of being on the plate boundary, but this has done it in a few seconds, rather than waiting hundreds of years.\"Although the earthquake was New Zealand's biggest in 78 years, it caused only slight damage to buildings and property when it struck Fiordland, west of Invercargill, New Zealand's southernmost and westernmost city, last Thursday.The mayor of Invercargill, Tim Shadbolt, told Radio New Zealand News that he welcomed the fact that parts of the country were now closer to Australia.\"I'm absolutely delighted. I built an international airport in Invercargill because we're the closest city in New Zealand to Australia and it will become more and more realistic the closer we get,\" he said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Australia news", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "Environment", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Australia weather", "South Australia"], "title": "Earthquake brings New Zealand closer to Australia"},{"date": "2009-09-17T00:41:53Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A three-year-old girl and two women from the UK were killed in a car crash in New Zealand yesterday.The accident happened at around 6.20pm local time (7.20am BST) when their car crashed into a power pole in New Brighton, a coastal suburb of Christchurch on New Zealand's south island.Two women, 60 and 68, were killed in the crash alongside the toddler. The male driver, who is in his 60s, is in hospital with non-life threatening injuries, local police said last night.It is believed one of the women died at the scene while the girl and the other woman died in hospital.Detective Sergeant Andrew Fabish, of New Brighton police, said all those travelling in the car had recently arrived as visitors from the UK. \"Fatigue is likely to be a factor,\" he said.Next of kin have been informed.New Brighton is a popular tourist destination thanks to its bird life and long sandy beachfront.Maggie Leak, from New Zealand police, told the BBC last night that conditions were clear when the crash happened.\"It's just a suburban locality and it would have been a beautiful evening in Christchurch last night. It's spring here and it's really still light at that time. It was a beautiful still, clear evening,\" she said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "UK news", "Asia Pacific", "Christchurch"], "title": "Girl aged three among three Britons killed in New Zealand car crash"},{"date": "2009-09-08T08:00:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "It was a warm, sunny day, so after a quick lunch we drove to one of Auckland's regional parks. We passed through suburbs with spring blossoms: white magnolias and pink-flowered cherry trees.Duder Regional Park is on a peninsula with high cliffs. The original farmhouse, not part of the park, is on flat land by the coast at the base of the peninsula. We walked up a gentle track past fenced gullies with remnants of native forest through bright green fields. The rolling, sheep-grazed hills reminded us of England.A ewe, hugely swollen on each side, watched as we entered a field where lambing was in progress. One ewe had a tiny lamb suckling, wagging its tail vigorously. On the ground nearby lay another lamb. Its umbilical cord had been cut by the mother. The lamb was still covered by yellow brown foetal membranes though its face had been licked clean. It lay there twitching, ignored by its mother.Should we do something to help or would helping a sickly lamb allow an adverse genetic trait to spread and weaken the flock? Not knowing either the answer or what we could do, we walked on past small, sleeping lambs and others, alert and watching our every move. One even tried to adopt us.It was a pleasant walk to the end of the peninsula where earthworks marked the site of an abandoned Maori pa, a native New Zealand fort, rather like iron age hill forts in Britain. After inspecting the pa and admiring the island-covered sea and wide blue sky, we set off back the way we came.The mother now had a third lamb, which she was licking clean as it searched for a teat. The second lamb, which we had thought near to death, had been cleaned and was walking around confidently. The mothers of all placental mammals must have the instinct to cut the umbilical cord and to clean their newly born, and the newly born need to know instinctively where to find the life-giving teats.Today we are far removed from many of our basic instincts. We readily intervene to save the individual to the possible detriment of the wellbeing of the species. The regional parks provide an opportunity to experience something of rural life, though on our drive home I wondered how many visitors realise that the white fluffy lambs they see are the source of meat in the supermarket and on their dinner plate.", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "Lamb"], "title": "New Zealand: what shall we do with the helpless lamb?"},{"date": "2009-08-24T15:46:14Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The father of a British law graduate killed riverboarding in New Zealand has said he hopes his daughter's death will change the way extreme sports are run.Emily Jordan, 21, of Trimpley, Worcestershire, drowned in the Kawarau river gorge on New Zealand's South Island in April 2008.Today the company that organised the trip pleaded guilty to two charges relating to her death. The sport involves riding a body board on rapids.Black Sheep Adventures Ltd, trading as Mad Dog River Boarding, and Brad McLeod, the company director, had previously both denied three charges of failing to ensure the safety of their customers. All charges against McLeod and one against Black Sheep Adventures were dropped, with the company pleading guilty to the remaining two.Queenstown district court heard that guides from Mad Dog River Boarding did not carry ropes and that the company's safety plan fell short of national standards.Emily was trapped underwater for 20 minutes until another boat carrying ropes arrived and freed her body on 29 April 2008.Emily's father, Chris, went to New Zealand for the court hearing. He told Radio New Zealand he wanted to cut the number of deaths from such activities.\"To just reduce the horrendous deaths that occur in some of these extreme sports would be my primary aim, my primary reason for coming over [from Britain] this week,\" he said. He added that he hoped to \"see some changes taking place with regard to the way river boarding in particular was run \u2013 and to some other extreme sports in general\".Black Sheep Adventures will be sentenced under New Zealand's health and safety laws tomorrow.", "tags": ["UK news", "New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Firm admits charges in New Zealand riverboarding death"},{"date": "2009-08-25T10:23:59Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A New Zealand extreme sports company must pay \u00a333,500 to the family of a British girl killed while riverboarding.Emily Jordan, 21, from Trimpley, Worcestershire, drowned after becoming trapped underneath a rock in the Kawarau river gorge on New Zealand's South Island in April 2008.Black Sheep Adventures, trading as Mad Dog River Boarding, pleaded guilty to two charges of negligence in Queenstown district court yesterday. Today the court ordered the firm to pay a fine of NZ$66,000 (\u00a327,665) and pay NZ$80,000 (\u00a333,533) to Emily's family.Brent Stanaway, prosecuting, told Queenstown district court that the company's guides carried no rescue ropes and its safety plan failed to meet industry standards.Emily was trapped under water for 20 minutes until guides from another river boarding company used their own ropes to free her body on 29 April 2008. The sport involves riding a body board down rapids.The Maritime Safety Authority, responsible for overseeing water sports safety standards in New Zealand, said the court ruling was a wake-up call for whitewater tourism operators.\"In this case, there was a wide gap between the normal accepted industrywide standards of safety practised by other white water operators and those used by Mad Dog,\" said authority spokesman Steve van der Splinter.Emily's father Chris travelled from Britain for the hearing. He told Radio New Zealand he wanted the conviction to change the way extreme sports are run.\"To just reduce the horrendous deaths that occur in some of these extreme sports would be my primary aim, my primary reason for coming over this week,\" he said.He added that \"what's really come home to me [is] how preventable this death was\".Black Sheep Adventures and company director Brad McLeod had both denied three charges of failing to ensure the safety of their customers. All charges against McLeod and one against Black Sheep Adventures were later dropped, with the company pleading guilty to the remaining two.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Water sports holidays", "UK news", "Travel", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand court orders watersports firm to pay British girl's family \u00a333,500"},{"date": "2009-12-14T14:42:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Royal officials today insisted that Prince William's first official overseas tour, to New Zealand next month, was not an attempt to head off growing republican feeling in the country.The 27-year-old prince will open New Zealand's supreme court building in Wellington on 18 January during a five-day trip which will also include an unofficial visit to Australia.Royal officials denied suggestions over the weekend that the invitation meant the prince was supplanting his father in the line of succession. A senior official said: \"It is inevitable as he gets older that the Queen will ask him to represent her. Her Majesty sees it as an opportunity for her grandsons to learn the ropes.\"The first half of the visit is at the invitation of New Zealand's government, whose prime minister, John Key, has said he sees the country becoming a republic within a decade as inevitable. The second half of the trip, to Sydney and Melbourne in Australia, is being made at the prince's own request. Whether he will meet the Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, is still being considered in Canberra.Palace sources expect the prince's first official visit to generate crowds. Although he visited New Zealand during the British and Irish Lions' rugby tour there in 2005, he has not been to Australia since he accompanied his parents on their tour in 1983. Prince Charles himself last visited the region in 2005.Officials at Clarence House said the prince's grandmother, who is also New Zealand's head of state, passed on the invitation for an official visit. \"The Queen of New Zealand graciously passed on the invitation to him. I am not getting into the political whys and wherefores,\" an official said. \"This is not about Prince William getting enmeshed in politics; it is about him going to open the supreme court building.\"We are planning for crowds, we would be stupid not to \u2013 there is going to be a lot of interest. I don't think it would be appropriate for us to comment on the actions or intentions of groups within the country.\"The itinerary includes a trip across Auckland harbour in a yacht with the New Zealand crew preparing for the Americas Cup, a visit to a nature reserve to see a real kiwi \u2013 a bird not a person \u2013 and a tour of a children's hospital. Key is holding a barbecue in the prince's honour. In Australia, there will be visits to see the governor general and state governors in New South Wales and Victoria, a meeting with Australian troops and a visit to an oceanographic survey ship in Sydney harbour.Clarence House staff said the prince would be taking a week of his annual RAF leave to undertake the visit, before starting the following week training as a helicopter search and rescue pilot. The New Zealand government is paying for its part of the trip and the Queen is underwriting the cost of the second half.A palace official said: \"Prince William is looking forward to this immensely. He has been ticking off the days. He has heard his brother going on about his gap year [in Australia] for six years and it will be a fantastic opportunity for him.\"", "tags": ["Prince William", "Monarchy", "New Zealand", "Australia news", "UK news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Prince William New Zealand visit 'not political'"},{"date": "2009-12-14T14:42:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Royal officials today insisted that Prince William's first official overseas tour, to New Zealand next month, was not an attempt to head off growing republican feeling in the country.The 27-year-old prince will open New Zealand's supreme court building in Wellington on 18 January during a five-day trip which will also include an unofficial visit to Australia.Royal officials denied suggestions over the weekend that the invitation meant the prince was supplanting his father in the line of succession. A senior official said: \"It is inevitable as he gets older that the Queen will ask him to represent her. Her Majesty sees it as an opportunity for her grandsons to learn the ropes.\"The first half of the visit is at the invitation of New Zealand's government, whose prime minister, John Key, has said he sees the country becoming a republic within a decade as inevitable. The second half of the trip, to Sydney and Melbourne in Australia, is being made at the prince's own request. Whether he will meet the Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, is still being considered in Canberra.Palace sources expect the prince's first official visit to generate crowds. Although he visited New Zealand during the British and Irish Lions' rugby tour there in 2005, he has not been to Australia since he accompanied his parents on their tour in 1983. Prince Charles himself last visited the region in 2005.Officials at Clarence House said the prince's grandmother, who is also New Zealand's head of state, passed on the invitation for an official visit. \"The Queen of New Zealand graciously passed on the invitation to him. I am not getting into the political whys and wherefores,\" an official said. \"This is not about Prince William getting enmeshed in politics; it is about him going to open the supreme court building.\"We are planning for crowds, we would be stupid not to \u2013 there is going to be a lot of interest. I don't think it would be appropriate for us to comment on the actions or intentions of groups within the country.\"The itinerary includes a trip across Auckland harbour in a yacht with the New Zealand crew preparing for the Americas Cup, a visit to a nature reserve to see a real kiwi \u2013 a bird not a person \u2013 and a tour of a children's hospital. Key is holding a barbecue in the prince's honour. In Australia, there will be visits to see the governor general and state governors in New South Wales and Victoria, a meeting with Australian troops and a visit to an oceanographic survey ship in Sydney harbour.Clarence House staff said the prince would be taking a week of his annual RAF leave to undertake the visit, before starting the following week training as a helicopter search and rescue pilot. The New Zealand government is paying for its part of the trip and the Queen is underwriting the cost of the second half.A palace official said: \"Prince William is looking forward to this immensely. He has been ticking off the days. He has heard his brother going on about his gap year [in Australia] for six years and it will be a fantastic opportunity for him.\"", "tags": ["Prince William", "Monarchy", "New Zealand", "Australia news", "UK news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Prince William New Zealand visit 'not political'"},{"date": "2009-11-11T11:39:05Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "We like a good cheese story on Word of Mouth \u2013 let's face it, who doesn't? So it was with some amusement that we came across a press release from the New Zealand police this morning (via Cold Mud and Stuff.co.nz) with news of a cheese heist that took place yesterday evening (our time, 7.30am 11 November New Zealand time), somewhere in the vicinity of Kakariki (presumably named after the species of native parrot) near Halcombe, Manawatu.A 23-year-old woman and 21-year-old man were charged in the morning \"following the recovery of cheese believed stolen from a train en route to Auckland\". Straight from the police briefing:Boxes of 20 kilo blocks of cheese were recovered and it was later confirmed that five containers of a train en route to Auckland, that passed through the area in the early hours of the morning, had been broken into.Radio New Zealand have spoken to the police officer involved, who said that, as the car was followed, boxes containing 20 1kg blocks of the cheese were thrown on to the road. A more ambitious attempt, it has to be said, than the Bristol man who attempted to smuggle six blocks of cheese from Aldi a couple of months ago.As the rest of the police report indicates, there is a more serious side to the story which shouldn't be trivialised, involving the possession of drugs, but that aside, a story like this makes it difficult to suppress a smile. You can't help but imagine the car chase along the state highway, past the wool scouring plants, the bemused cows chewing cud in roadside fields, the farmers stopped in their tracks, a clapped out car spluttering along the road intermittently disgorging blocks of cheese from the windows with rail workers and New Zealand's finest in hot pursuit. How quickly would Nick Park and Aardman Animations be able to turn this round for Christmas I wonder?The most crucial piece of information, the one that Word of Mouthers will of course be waiting on, what kind of cheese was it? Well, put it this way, Wallace wouldn't put down his copy of Ay Up! magazine for as much as a sniff - the cheese was a vacuum-packed cheddar, destined for export. Which leaves me with one final thought \u2013 if only the good people of Cheddar had thought to protect their cheese with a designation of origin, perhaps this ugly business could have been avoided.", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Scam and cheese in New Zealand"},{"date": "2009-12-14T14:42:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Royal officials today insisted that Prince William's first official overseas tour, to New Zealand next month, was not an attempt to head off growing republican feeling in the country.The 27-year-old prince will open New Zealand's supreme court building in Wellington on 18 January during a five-day trip which will also include an unofficial visit to Australia.Royal officials denied suggestions over the weekend that the invitation meant the prince was supplanting his father in the line of succession. A senior official said: \"It is inevitable as he gets older that the Queen will ask him to represent her. Her Majesty sees it as an opportunity for her grandsons to learn the ropes.\"The first half of the visit is at the invitation of New Zealand's government, whose prime minister, John Key, has said he sees the country becoming a republic within a decade as inevitable. The second half of the trip, to Sydney and Melbourne in Australia, is being made at the prince's own request. Whether he will meet the Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, is still being considered in Canberra.Palace sources expect the prince's first official visit to generate crowds. Although he visited New Zealand during the British and Irish Lions' rugby tour there in 2005, he has not been to Australia since he accompanied his parents on their tour in 1983. Prince Charles himself last visited the region in 2005.Officials at Clarence House said the prince's grandmother, who is also New Zealand's head of state, passed on the invitation for an official visit. \"The Queen of New Zealand graciously passed on the invitation to him. I am not getting into the political whys and wherefores,\" an official said. \"This is not about Prince William getting enmeshed in politics; it is about him going to open the supreme court building.\"We are planning for crowds, we would be stupid not to \u2013 there is going to be a lot of interest. I don't think it would be appropriate for us to comment on the actions or intentions of groups within the country.\"The itinerary includes a trip across Auckland harbour in a yacht with the New Zealand crew preparing for the Americas Cup, a visit to a nature reserve to see a real kiwi \u2013 a bird not a person \u2013 and a tour of a children's hospital. Key is holding a barbecue in the prince's honour. In Australia, there will be visits to see the governor general and state governors in New South Wales and Victoria, a meeting with Australian troops and a visit to an oceanographic survey ship in Sydney harbour.Clarence House staff said the prince would be taking a week of his annual RAF leave to undertake the visit, before starting the following week training as a helicopter search and rescue pilot. The New Zealand government is paying for its part of the trip and the Queen is underwriting the cost of the second half.A palace official said: \"Prince William is looking forward to this immensely. He has been ticking off the days. He has heard his brother going on about his gap year [in Australia] for six years and it will be a fantastic opportunity for him.\"", "tags": ["Prince William", "Monarchy", "New Zealand", "Australia news", "UK news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Prince William New Zealand visit 'not political'"},{"date": "2009-11-11T11:39:05Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "We like a good cheese story on Word of Mouth \u2013 let's face it, who doesn't? So it was with some amusement that we came across a press release from the New Zealand police this morning (via Cold Mud and Stuff.co.nz) with news of a cheese heist that took place yesterday evening (our time, 7.30am 11 November New Zealand time), somewhere in the vicinity of Kakariki (presumably named after the species of native parrot) near Halcombe, Manawatu.A 23-year-old woman and 21-year-old man were charged in the morning \"following the recovery of cheese believed stolen from a train en route to Auckland\". Straight from the police briefing:Boxes of 20 kilo blocks of cheese were recovered and it was later confirmed that five containers of a train en route to Auckland, that passed through the area in the early hours of the morning, had been broken into.Radio New Zealand have spoken to the police officer involved, who said that, as the car was followed, boxes containing 20 1kg blocks of the cheese were thrown on to the road. A more ambitious attempt, it has to be said, than the Bristol man who attempted to smuggle six blocks of cheese from Aldi a couple of months ago.As the rest of the police report indicates, there is a more serious side to the story which shouldn't be trivialised, involving the possession of drugs, but that aside, a story like this makes it difficult to suppress a smile. You can't help but imagine the car chase along the state highway, past the wool scouring plants, the bemused cows chewing cud in roadside fields, the farmers stopped in their tracks, a clapped out car spluttering along the road intermittently disgorging blocks of cheese from the windows with rail workers and New Zealand's finest in hot pursuit. How quickly would Nick Park and Aardman Animations be able to turn this round for Christmas I wonder?The most crucial piece of information, the one that Word of Mouthers will of course be waiting on, what kind of cheese was it? Well, put it this way, Wallace wouldn't put down his copy of Ay Up! magazine for as much as a sniff - the cheese was a vacuum-packed cheddar, destined for export. Which leaves me with one final thought \u2013 if only the good people of Cheddar had thought to protect their cheese with a designation of origin, perhaps this ugly business could have been avoided.", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Scam and cheese in New Zealand"},{"date": "2009-10-24T23:06:48Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "If you can picture yourself sitting in a hillside vineyard on New Year's Eve with a good bottle of local wine, the sun setting over the east coast, the soundtrack provided by the likes of LCD Soundsystem, 2ManyDJs and Editors, get over to the three-day Rhythm and Vines festival in Gisborne, the first city in the world to see the sun rise each new year.\u2022 One-day passes costs from NZ$60 (\u00a327), three-day passes from NZ$135. The event takes place at the Waiohika Estate, Gisborne, 29-31 December; rhythmandvines.co.nzNamed after Sir Edmund Hillary, the first climber to conquer Everest, and opening on the second anniversary of his death (11 January 2010), this 70km, four-day walking trail covers some of the most spectacular bush and beach terrain on Auckland's west coast, including the Waitakere Ranges and Anawhata beach, a place Hillary called \"the most beautiful on earth\".\u2022 newzealand.com/travelFor those who want environmental kicks with luxury on the side, try this five-star 100-room eco-hotel, built from sustainable materials and enveloped by rainforest, just minutes from the Fox and Franz Joseph glaciers on the west coast of the South Island.\u202200 64 3 357 1919; scenichotelgroup.co.nz; doubles from NZ$520If your pockets aren't deep enough for five-star eco-hotels, why not bring your room to the view? Wild camping is illegal in most parts of the UK but is famously commonplace in NZ. All you need is a tent or a campervan for a front seat in some of the world's most scenic vantage points. The Eastland region of the North Island is wonderfully remote, as is the Southern Scenic Route at the tip of the South Island.\u2022 For information on best practice when wild camping, see camping.org.nz. For the Southern Scenic Route, see southernscenicroute.co.nz. For campervan rentals from NZ$50 a day visit maui-rentals.com The New Zealand tourist board is turning the concept of the \"Big Five\" upside down by developing its own \"Small Five\" list. This aims to promote awareness and conservation of five of its smallest and most endangered indigenous creatures: the kiwi, the Hector's dolphin, the yellow-eyed penguin, the tuatara (like a lizard) and the kea (a kind of parrot). If you've ever wanted to go kiwi-spotting on Stewart Island, or swim with the Hector's dolphin in Porpoise Bay, this may be your very last chance.\u2022 Discover the World (01737 218800; discover-the-world.co.uk) offers an 18-night \"Small Five\" self-drive holiday from \u00a32,228Forget forking out all your spending money on a posh spa. Head to Hot Water Beach on the north-eastern tip of the North Island's Coromandel Peninsula and dig your own spa pool for free. The beach gets its name from the hot springs that filter up through the sand, and for two hours either side of low tide it is possible to dig a hole to form a pool whose water can reach a steamy 75C. No spade? No worries: there is spade hire in summer for NZ$5.\u2022 thecoromandel.com", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Festivals", "Walking holidays", "Hotels", "Camping holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "New Zealand: activity holidays"},{"date": "2009-12-14T14:42:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Royal officials today insisted that Prince William's first official overseas tour, to New Zealand next month, was not an attempt to head off growing republican feeling in the country.The 27-year-old prince will open New Zealand's supreme court building in Wellington on 18 January during a five-day trip which will also include an unofficial visit to Australia.Royal officials denied suggestions over the weekend that the invitation meant the prince was supplanting his father in the line of succession. A senior official said: \"It is inevitable as he gets older that the Queen will ask him to represent her. Her Majesty sees it as an opportunity for her grandsons to learn the ropes.\"The first half of the visit is at the invitation of New Zealand's government, whose prime minister, John Key, has said he sees the country becoming a republic within a decade as inevitable. The second half of the trip, to Sydney and Melbourne in Australia, is being made at the prince's own request. Whether he will meet the Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, is still being considered in Canberra.Palace sources expect the prince's first official visit to generate crowds. Although he visited New Zealand during the British and Irish Lions' rugby tour there in 2005, he has not been to Australia since he accompanied his parents on their tour in 1983. Prince Charles himself last visited the region in 2005.Officials at Clarence House said the prince's grandmother, who is also New Zealand's head of state, passed on the invitation for an official visit. \"The Queen of New Zealand graciously passed on the invitation to him. I am not getting into the political whys and wherefores,\" an official said. \"This is not about Prince William getting enmeshed in politics; it is about him going to open the supreme court building.\"We are planning for crowds, we would be stupid not to \u2013 there is going to be a lot of interest. I don't think it would be appropriate for us to comment on the actions or intentions of groups within the country.\"The itinerary includes a trip across Auckland harbour in a yacht with the New Zealand crew preparing for the Americas Cup, a visit to a nature reserve to see a real kiwi \u2013 a bird not a person \u2013 and a tour of a children's hospital. Key is holding a barbecue in the prince's honour. In Australia, there will be visits to see the governor general and state governors in New South Wales and Victoria, a meeting with Australian troops and a visit to an oceanographic survey ship in Sydney harbour.Clarence House staff said the prince would be taking a week of his annual RAF leave to undertake the visit, before starting the following week training as a helicopter search and rescue pilot. The New Zealand government is paying for its part of the trip and the Queen is underwriting the cost of the second half.A palace official said: \"Prince William is looking forward to this immensely. He has been ticking off the days. He has heard his brother going on about his gap year [in Australia] for six years and it will be a fantastic opportunity for him.\"", "tags": ["Prince William", "Monarchy", "New Zealand", "Australia news", "UK news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Prince William New Zealand visit 'not political'"},{"date": "2009-11-11T11:39:05Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "We like a good cheese story on Word of Mouth \u2013 let's face it, who doesn't? So it was with some amusement that we came across a press release from the New Zealand police this morning (via Cold Mud and Stuff.co.nz) with news of a cheese heist that took place yesterday evening (our time, 7.30am 11 November New Zealand time), somewhere in the vicinity of Kakariki (presumably named after the species of native parrot) near Halcombe, Manawatu.A 23-year-old woman and 21-year-old man were charged in the morning \"following the recovery of cheese believed stolen from a train en route to Auckland\". Straight from the police briefing:Boxes of 20 kilo blocks of cheese were recovered and it was later confirmed that five containers of a train en route to Auckland, that passed through the area in the early hours of the morning, had been broken into.Radio New Zealand have spoken to the police officer involved, who said that, as the car was followed, boxes containing 20 1kg blocks of the cheese were thrown on to the road. A more ambitious attempt, it has to be said, than the Bristol man who attempted to smuggle six blocks of cheese from Aldi a couple of months ago.As the rest of the police report indicates, there is a more serious side to the story which shouldn't be trivialised, involving the possession of drugs, but that aside, a story like this makes it difficult to suppress a smile. You can't help but imagine the car chase along the state highway, past the wool scouring plants, the bemused cows chewing cud in roadside fields, the farmers stopped in their tracks, a clapped out car spluttering along the road intermittently disgorging blocks of cheese from the windows with rail workers and New Zealand's finest in hot pursuit. How quickly would Nick Park and Aardman Animations be able to turn this round for Christmas I wonder?The most crucial piece of information, the one that Word of Mouthers will of course be waiting on, what kind of cheese was it? Well, put it this way, Wallace wouldn't put down his copy of Ay Up! magazine for as much as a sniff - the cheese was a vacuum-packed cheddar, destined for export. Which leaves me with one final thought \u2013 if only the good people of Cheddar had thought to protect their cheese with a designation of origin, perhaps this ugly business could have been avoided.", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Scam and cheese in New Zealand"},{"date": "2009-10-24T23:06:48Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "If you can picture yourself sitting in a hillside vineyard on New Year's Eve with a good bottle of local wine, the sun setting over the east coast, the soundtrack provided by the likes of LCD Soundsystem, 2ManyDJs and Editors, get over to the three-day Rhythm and Vines festival in Gisborne, the first city in the world to see the sun rise each new year.\u2022 One-day passes costs from NZ$60 (\u00a327), three-day passes from NZ$135. The event takes place at the Waiohika Estate, Gisborne, 29-31 December; rhythmandvines.co.nzNamed after Sir Edmund Hillary, the first climber to conquer Everest, and opening on the second anniversary of his death (11 January 2010), this 70km, four-day walking trail covers some of the most spectacular bush and beach terrain on Auckland's west coast, including the Waitakere Ranges and Anawhata beach, a place Hillary called \"the most beautiful on earth\".\u2022 newzealand.com/travelFor those who want environmental kicks with luxury on the side, try this five-star 100-room eco-hotel, built from sustainable materials and enveloped by rainforest, just minutes from the Fox and Franz Joseph glaciers on the west coast of the South Island.\u202200 64 3 357 1919; scenichotelgroup.co.nz; doubles from NZ$520If your pockets aren't deep enough for five-star eco-hotels, why not bring your room to the view? Wild camping is illegal in most parts of the UK but is famously commonplace in NZ. All you need is a tent or a campervan for a front seat in some of the world's most scenic vantage points. The Eastland region of the North Island is wonderfully remote, as is the Southern Scenic Route at the tip of the South Island.\u2022 For information on best practice when wild camping, see camping.org.nz. For the Southern Scenic Route, see southernscenicroute.co.nz. For campervan rentals from NZ$50 a day visit maui-rentals.com The New Zealand tourist board is turning the concept of the \"Big Five\" upside down by developing its own \"Small Five\" list. This aims to promote awareness and conservation of five of its smallest and most endangered indigenous creatures: the kiwi, the Hector's dolphin, the yellow-eyed penguin, the tuatara (like a lizard) and the kea (a kind of parrot). If you've ever wanted to go kiwi-spotting on Stewart Island, or swim with the Hector's dolphin in Porpoise Bay, this may be your very last chance.\u2022 Discover the World (01737 218800; discover-the-world.co.uk) offers an 18-night \"Small Five\" self-drive holiday from \u00a32,228Forget forking out all your spending money on a posh spa. Head to Hot Water Beach on the north-eastern tip of the North Island's Coromandel Peninsula and dig your own spa pool for free. The beach gets its name from the hot springs that filter up through the sand, and for two hours either side of low tide it is possible to dig a hole to form a pool whose water can reach a steamy 75C. No spade? No worries: there is spade hire in summer for NZ$5.\u2022 thecoromandel.com", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Festivals", "Walking holidays", "Hotels", "Camping holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "New Zealand: activity holidays"},{"date": "2009-12-17T10:44:29Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A New Zealand church has sparked outrage by erecting a billboard depicting Mary and Joseph lying semi-nude beneath the sheets.In an unorthodox take on the Christmas tale, the billboard depicts a forlorn Joseph and Mary looking to the sky with a caption which reads: \"Poor Joseph. God is a hard act to follow.\"The St Matthew-in-the-City church said it wanted to inspire people to talk about the Christmas story.But within five hours of the billboard going up in downtown Auckland a man was standing on his car roof painting over the raunchy image.Archdeacon Glynn Cardy said the church meant to challenge a fundamentalist interpretation of Christ's birth.\"What we're trying to do is to get people to think more about what Christmas is all about. Is it about a spiritual male God sending down sperm so a child would be born, or is it about the power of love in our midst as seen in Jesus?\"Cardy said one person had threatened to tear down the billboard but that of the 20 odd emails and phone calls he had received \"about 50% said they loved it, and about 50% said it was terribly offensive\".The Catholic church joined those on the attack, accusing the Anglican church of disrespect.\"It's flying in the face of our 2,000-year-old beliefs,\" a Catholic church spokesman, Lyndsay Freer, said.The conservative Family First organisation said the Anglican church could debate the Bible story away from the public eye. \"To confront children and families with the concept as a street billboard is completely irresponsible and unnecessary,\" Family First's national director, Bob McCoskrie, said.A complaint has been lodged with New Zealand's advertising watchdog, the Advertising Authority, but Cardy was unrepentant.\"I don't see why one person's protest should deny other people the enjoyment of the billboard.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Religion", "Anglicanism", "Catholicism", "World news", "Christmas", "Life and style", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Semi-nude Mary and Joseph spark outrage in New Zealand"},{"date": "2009-12-14T14:42:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Royal officials today insisted that Prince William's first official overseas tour, to New Zealand next month, was not an attempt to head off growing republican feeling in the country.The 27-year-old prince will open New Zealand's supreme court building in Wellington on 18 January during a five-day trip which will also include an unofficial visit to Australia.Royal officials denied suggestions over the weekend that the invitation meant the prince was supplanting his father in the line of succession. A senior official said: \"It is inevitable as he gets older that the Queen will ask him to represent her. Her Majesty sees it as an opportunity for her grandsons to learn the ropes.\"The first half of the visit is at the invitation of New Zealand's government, whose prime minister, John Key, has said he sees the country becoming a republic within a decade as inevitable. The second half of the trip, to Sydney and Melbourne in Australia, is being made at the prince's own request. Whether he will meet the Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, is still being considered in Canberra.Palace sources expect the prince's first official visit to generate crowds. Although he visited New Zealand during the British and Irish Lions' rugby tour there in 2005, he has not been to Australia since he accompanied his parents on their tour in 1983. Prince Charles himself last visited the region in 2005.Officials at Clarence House said the prince's grandmother, who is also New Zealand's head of state, passed on the invitation for an official visit. \"The Queen of New Zealand graciously passed on the invitation to him. I am not getting into the political whys and wherefores,\" an official said. \"This is not about Prince William getting enmeshed in politics; it is about him going to open the supreme court building.\"We are planning for crowds, we would be stupid not to \u2013 there is going to be a lot of interest. I don't think it would be appropriate for us to comment on the actions or intentions of groups within the country.\"The itinerary includes a trip across Auckland harbour in a yacht with the New Zealand crew preparing for the Americas Cup, a visit to a nature reserve to see a real kiwi \u2013 a bird not a person \u2013 and a tour of a children's hospital. Key is holding a barbecue in the prince's honour. In Australia, there will be visits to see the governor general and state governors in New South Wales and Victoria, a meeting with Australian troops and a visit to an oceanographic survey ship in Sydney harbour.Clarence House staff said the prince would be taking a week of his annual RAF leave to undertake the visit, before starting the following week training as a helicopter search and rescue pilot. The New Zealand government is paying for its part of the trip and the Queen is underwriting the cost of the second half.A palace official said: \"Prince William is looking forward to this immensely. He has been ticking off the days. He has heard his brother going on about his gap year [in Australia] for six years and it will be a fantastic opportunity for him.\"", "tags": ["Prince William", "Monarchy", "New Zealand", "Australia news", "UK news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Prince William New Zealand visit 'not political'"},{"date": "2009-11-11T11:39:05Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "We like a good cheese story on Word of Mouth \u2013 let's face it, who doesn't? So it was with some amusement that we came across a press release from the New Zealand police this morning (via Cold Mud and Stuff.co.nz) with news of a cheese heist that took place yesterday evening (our time, 7.30am 11 November New Zealand time), somewhere in the vicinity of Kakariki (presumably named after the species of native parrot) near Halcombe, Manawatu.A 23-year-old woman and 21-year-old man were charged in the morning \"following the recovery of cheese believed stolen from a train en route to Auckland\". Straight from the police briefing:Boxes of 20 kilo blocks of cheese were recovered and it was later confirmed that five containers of a train en route to Auckland, that passed through the area in the early hours of the morning, had been broken into.Radio New Zealand have spoken to the police officer involved, who said that, as the car was followed, boxes containing 20 1kg blocks of the cheese were thrown on to the road. A more ambitious attempt, it has to be said, than the Bristol man who attempted to smuggle six blocks of cheese from Aldi a couple of months ago.As the rest of the police report indicates, there is a more serious side to the story which shouldn't be trivialised, involving the possession of drugs, but that aside, a story like this makes it difficult to suppress a smile. You can't help but imagine the car chase along the state highway, past the wool scouring plants, the bemused cows chewing cud in roadside fields, the farmers stopped in their tracks, a clapped out car spluttering along the road intermittently disgorging blocks of cheese from the windows with rail workers and New Zealand's finest in hot pursuit. How quickly would Nick Park and Aardman Animations be able to turn this round for Christmas I wonder?The most crucial piece of information, the one that Word of Mouthers will of course be waiting on, what kind of cheese was it? Well, put it this way, Wallace wouldn't put down his copy of Ay Up! magazine for as much as a sniff - the cheese was a vacuum-packed cheddar, destined for export. Which leaves me with one final thought \u2013 if only the good people of Cheddar had thought to protect their cheese with a designation of origin, perhaps this ugly business could have been avoided.", "tags": ["Food & drink", "Life and style", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Scam and cheese in New Zealand"},{"date": "2009-10-24T23:06:48Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "If you can picture yourself sitting in a hillside vineyard on New Year's Eve with a good bottle of local wine, the sun setting over the east coast, the soundtrack provided by the likes of LCD Soundsystem, 2ManyDJs and Editors, get over to the three-day Rhythm and Vines festival in Gisborne, the first city in the world to see the sun rise each new year.\u2022 One-day passes costs from NZ$60 (\u00a327), three-day passes from NZ$135. The event takes place at the Waiohika Estate, Gisborne, 29-31 December; rhythmandvines.co.nzNamed after Sir Edmund Hillary, the first climber to conquer Everest, and opening on the second anniversary of his death (11 January 2010), this 70km, four-day walking trail covers some of the most spectacular bush and beach terrain on Auckland's west coast, including the Waitakere Ranges and Anawhata beach, a place Hillary called \"the most beautiful on earth\".\u2022 newzealand.com/travelFor those who want environmental kicks with luxury on the side, try this five-star 100-room eco-hotel, built from sustainable materials and enveloped by rainforest, just minutes from the Fox and Franz Joseph glaciers on the west coast of the South Island.\u202200 64 3 357 1919; scenichotelgroup.co.nz; doubles from NZ$520If your pockets aren't deep enough for five-star eco-hotels, why not bring your room to the view? Wild camping is illegal in most parts of the UK but is famously commonplace in NZ. All you need is a tent or a campervan for a front seat in some of the world's most scenic vantage points. The Eastland region of the North Island is wonderfully remote, as is the Southern Scenic Route at the tip of the South Island.\u2022 For information on best practice when wild camping, see camping.org.nz. For the Southern Scenic Route, see southernscenicroute.co.nz. For campervan rentals from NZ$50 a day visit maui-rentals.com The New Zealand tourist board is turning the concept of the \"Big Five\" upside down by developing its own \"Small Five\" list. This aims to promote awareness and conservation of five of its smallest and most endangered indigenous creatures: the kiwi, the Hector's dolphin, the yellow-eyed penguin, the tuatara (like a lizard) and the kea (a kind of parrot). If you've ever wanted to go kiwi-spotting on Stewart Island, or swim with the Hector's dolphin in Porpoise Bay, this may be your very last chance.\u2022 Discover the World (01737 218800; discover-the-world.co.uk) offers an 18-night \"Small Five\" self-drive holiday from \u00a32,228Forget forking out all your spending money on a posh spa. Head to Hot Water Beach on the north-eastern tip of the North Island's Coromandel Peninsula and dig your own spa pool for free. The beach gets its name from the hot springs that filter up through the sand, and for two hours either side of low tide it is possible to dig a hole to form a pool whose water can reach a steamy 75C. No spade? No worries: there is spade hire in summer for NZ$5.\u2022 thecoromandel.com", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Festivals", "Walking holidays", "Hotels", "Camping holidays", "Wildlife holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "New Zealand: activity holidays"},{"date": "2009-12-17T10:44:29Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A New Zealand church has sparked outrage by erecting a billboard depicting Mary and Joseph lying semi-nude beneath the sheets.In an unorthodox take on the Christmas tale, the billboard depicts a forlorn Joseph and Mary looking to the sky with a caption which reads: \"Poor Joseph. God is a hard act to follow.\"The St Matthew-in-the-City church said it wanted to inspire people to talk about the Christmas story.But within five hours of the billboard going up in downtown Auckland a man was standing on his car roof painting over the raunchy image.Archdeacon Glynn Cardy said the church meant to challenge a fundamentalist interpretation of Christ's birth.\"What we're trying to do is to get people to think more about what Christmas is all about. Is it about a spiritual male God sending down sperm so a child would be born, or is it about the power of love in our midst as seen in Jesus?\"Cardy said one person had threatened to tear down the billboard but that of the 20 odd emails and phone calls he had received \"about 50% said they loved it, and about 50% said it was terribly offensive\".The Catholic church joined those on the attack, accusing the Anglican church of disrespect.\"It's flying in the face of our 2,000-year-old beliefs,\" a Catholic church spokesman, Lyndsay Freer, said.The conservative Family First organisation said the Anglican church could debate the Bible story away from the public eye. \"To confront children and families with the concept as a street billboard is completely irresponsible and unnecessary,\" Family First's national director, Bob McCoskrie, said.A complaint has been lodged with New Zealand's advertising watchdog, the Advertising Authority, but Cardy was unrepentant.\"I don't see why one person's protest should deny other people the enjoyment of the billboard.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Religion", "Anglicanism", "Catholicism", "World news", "Christmas", "Life and style", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Semi-nude Mary and Joseph spark outrage in New Zealand"},{"date": "2009-11-21T21:24:51Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "MILS MULIAINA FULL-BACK \u2013 7Showed astonishingly silky footwork and some delightfully deft handling of the kind too rarely seen on modern rugby fields. ZAC GUILDFORD WING \u2013 5Saw a lot less of the ball than Sivivatu as he was keener to stick to his touchline. On the odd occasion he did stray in field he cut his way through England with ease.CONRAD SMITH CENTRE \u2013 4A sloppy display. He spilled simple passes to cut short attacking moves, and fumbled high balls.MA'A NONU CENTRE \u2013 8Majestic, in stark contrast to his partner in the centre. Used his sneaky sleights of hand to spark attacks and his brute power to boss the midfield.SITIVENI SIVIVATU WING \u2013 7Outstanding, especially on the frequent occasions when he came infield. His footwork made him all but impossible to bring down cleanly.DAN CARTER FLY-HALF \u2013 7Missed two simple kicks that would have put his side out of reach before half-time, but made up for it with his all-round game.JIMMY COWAN SCRUM-HALF \u2013 6Looked like an utter liability when his temper got him into trouble time and again. Proved his worth by starting, and finishing, New Zealand's try.TONY WOODCOCK PROP \u2013 8Rock solid. His absence had explained New Zealand's troubles against Italy. The best loosehead in the game.ANDREW HORE HOOKER \u2013 6Not the safest thrower at the line-out, but was in the thick of the action at the breakdown. Seemed to get right up Dylan Hartley's nose.OWEN FRANKS PROP \u2013 7Out-classed England in the scrum. Faded when Johnson brought on Thompson and Wilson and was quickly hauled off. Still, a real find for his side.BRAD THORN LOCK \u2013 6Out-classed by Borthwick in the line-out, but not to the extent where it made enough difference to the result. A solid contribution elsewhere.TOM DONNELLY LOCK \u2013 6Conspicuous in the loose, where he was never far away from the action. Effective as a ball carrier, but not nearly so self-assured in the line-out.ADAM THOMSON FLANKER \u2013 7Must have been taking lessons in the art of back-row play from McCaw. Excellent at the breakdown, where he made an utter nuisance of himself.RICHIE McCAW FLANKER, capt \u2013 9Every bit as excellent as his reputation. Popped up in running play with the odd crucial pass, not least in the build-up to Cowan's try, and successfully sweet-talked the referee.KIERAN READ No8 \u2013 6Neither as dashing or dominant as his two colleagues in the back-row, but worked cunningly as a blocker and fought for the hard yards too.REPLACEMENTSJohn Afoa (Franks 62) 7; Anthony Boric (Donnelly 61) 6; Jerome Kaino (Adam Thomson 61) 6; Andy Ellis (Jimmy Cowan 71) 6", "tags": ["Autumn internationals", "England rugby union team", "New Zealand rugby union team"], "title": "England 6-19 New Zealand: How the visitors rated"},{"date": "2010-01-25T12:27:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A New Zealand tour operator has admitted hiring Europeans and Israelis to dress up in traditional Maori costumes, poke out their tongues and simulate a haka, or indigenous dance, to lure tourists from cruise ships.The Discovery Heritage Group director, Terina Puriri, who has Maori, German and English ancestry, dismissed outrage over the impostors, claiming she was making a positive contribution to the community as Maori were unwilling to promote their own heritage.\"Some of our Maori are too slack to promote themselves. Some of our Maori are too lazy to get out of bed to do that,\" Puriri said.\"They don't turn up and it's a known thing for Tauranga Maori to do that,\" she said.Puriri said the foreign performers who worked for her had learnt Maori customs and some of the local language, and had helped build a village on the outskirts of Tauranga, a port city on the east coast of the North Island, where the cruise ships docked.\"None of my team are backpackers or full-blood Maori. But the tourists love us purely because we are proud of our culture and we look beautiful.\"She said the critics were merely \"splitting hairs\".But Maori elder Iria Whiu said Puriri's comments were \"highly insulting\".Details of the performers emerged after it was revealed that tourists were being charged $NZ5 (\u00a32.20) by Auckland-born John Kairau to have their photo taken with a \"Maori in traditional dress\" \u2013 using their own camera.Puriri's company, which had contracts with some cruise ships to provide cultural liaison and perform on board, was now banned from the ports.The port's commercial manager, Graeme Marshall, said the performers were removed because they had false ID.\"The representation of who came through the gate into the port did not match up with their identification,\" he said.Kairau, who drew a Maori design, normally etched into the skin by tattoo, on to his face with a marker pen, had also been asked to leave the wharf.Puriri's performers now wait for potential customers outside the gates.\"They don't want culture on their port,\" she said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Race issues", "New Zealand holidays", "World news", "Travel", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand tour operator uses fake Maori performers"},{"date": "2010-01-25T12:27:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A New Zealand tour operator has admitted hiring Europeans and Israelis to dress up in traditional Maori costumes, poke out their tongues and simulate a haka, or indigenous dance, to lure tourists from cruise ships.The Discovery Heritage Group director, Terina Puriri, who has Maori, German and English ancestry, dismissed outrage over the impostors, claiming she was making a positive contribution to the community as Maori were unwilling to promote their own heritage.\"Some of our Maori are too slack to promote themselves. Some of our Maori are too lazy to get out of bed to do that,\" Puriri said.\"They don't turn up and it's a known thing for Tauranga Maori to do that,\" she said.Puriri said the foreign performers who worked for her had learnt Maori customs and some of the local language, and had helped build a village on the outskirts of Tauranga, a port city on the east coast of the North Island, where the cruise ships docked.\"None of my team are backpackers or full-blood Maori. But the tourists love us purely because we are proud of our culture and we look beautiful.\"She said the critics were merely \"splitting hairs\".But Maori elder Iria Whiu said Puriri's comments were \"highly insulting\".Details of the performers emerged after it was revealed that tourists were being charged $NZ5 (\u00a32.20) by Auckland-born John Kairau to have their photo taken with a \"Maori in traditional dress\" \u2013 using their own camera.Puriri's company, which had contracts with some cruise ships to provide cultural liaison and perform on board, was now banned from the ports.The port's commercial manager, Graeme Marshall, said the performers were removed because they had false ID.\"The representation of who came through the gate into the port did not match up with their identification,\" he said.Kairau, who drew a Maori design, normally etched into the skin by tattoo, on to his face with a marker pen, had also been asked to leave the wharf.Puriri's performers now wait for potential customers outside the gates.\"They don't want culture on their port,\" she said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Race issues", "New Zealand holidays", "World news", "Travel", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand tour operator uses fake Maori performers"},{"date": "2010-01-22T00:05:25Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "In the end the lure of celebrity proved just too much. The arrival of the diffident 27-year-old Old Etonian, who might conceivably one day become their monarch, provoked sneers in Australia before he touched down on Tuesday. But by last night he had been transformed from Willy the Wombat into \u2013 acccording to the tabloid Herald Sun \u2013 a Dinkum Aussie Larrikin. You could go a long way through the Outback to find someone less like a larrikin (which usually translates as a bit of a hoodlum), but that's what the presence of royalty can do for you.Many thousands turned out to see the prince here in Australia and in New Zealand earlier in the week. Outside the new supreme court building in Wellington, which William had been sent to open on behalf of his grandmother, people greeted him with cheers and worried about the effect of the sun on his bald spot. Maoris beamed with pleasure that the grandson of the Great White Heron had come amongst them.In Sydney, Aborigines who spend their lives crammed into a dismal slum area called the Block came out in their thousands to welcome a young man as different from them as it is possible to imagine. William's gay fanbase turned out in \"I Love Willy\" T-shirts.And he did not disappoint. Like his mother before him, William hugged babies in hospital wards and spontaneously put his arms around elderly Aboriginal ladies. He listened gravely to survivors of last February's devastating Victoria bushfires. He joshed the parachute squaddies of the 3rd battalion Royal Australian Regiment on their firing range, where his shooting proficiency provoked genuine admiration.So, as he and his advisers flew back home last night \u2013 business class on a scheduled flight, not by private jet like some royals \u2013 they will undoubtedly feel buoyed up by success. They may even have been chortling gently that the pro-republican Melbourne Age noted yesterday, under the headline \"All-round Good Egg William Snares Many with his Charm Offensive\", that the prince \"may have done more to set back the republican cause than anything since the 1999 referendum\" \u2013 which, of course, the republicans narrowly lost.That is good news indeed for Buckingham Palace and, across the road, Clarence House, home of William's father Prince Charles. Because William is the best hope they have.Things are looking bleak for the monarchy right now. There isn't much stardust around for the foreseeable future: the Queen is approaching her mid-80s and, with no sign of ill health, may be good for another decade or (if she has inherited her mother's longevity) two. Her famously grumpy heir, Charles, is now 61; he will already be an old man when he inherits. So it is to the next generation the family must turn, even though William, already approaching his 30s, will probably be middle-aged by the time he is crowned.All the more reason, therefore, to pay attention to the prince's progress as he finally, by taking on grown-up engagements of this sort, begins to take the burden off the oldsters. This week was the first time that he has undertaken an official overseas tour (at least so far as the New Zealand leg of the trip was concerned) and, as fate would have it, it was to two countries that have been murmuring for years about dispensing with the monarch and having their own home-grown head of state.No wonder then that accompany- ing the prince was a small, elite team whose job it was to keep him from gaffes and pitfalls. Major Jamie Lowther-Pinkerton, the leathery, hatchet-faced former SAS man who is the prince's private secretary, was to be seen alongside him, glowering as he was handed yet another bouquet of flowers to carry (the flowers having been thrust at the prince during his walkabouts). Beside him, equally discreet, was Sir David Manning, the former diplomat whose career peaked as Tony Blair's foreign affairs adviser and then ambassador to the US during the period after the Iraq war. A small grey figure, he could be seen standing slightly apart from the crowd, quizzically viewing the prince, with whom he has a part-time advisory role. If every would-be monarch needs a mentor, Manning, who spent 36 years at the Foreign Office, fills that role.There were also three security police, a young press officer and a secretarial assistant, but this was not all: watching beadily from the public seats as William opened the New Zealand supreme court was none other than Christopher Geidt, the Queen's private secretary. Clearly uncomfortable at being spotted, he protested that he had only dropped by because he happened to be in Wellington: \"I am just on holiday and it was suggested I might like to look in.\"What all these helpers, official or otherwise, will have reported back to senior royals was how well William did. He was charming, empathetic, approachable and informal. He smiled and told jokes, he listened seriously and engaged with what people told him, he was clearly moved by the victims of the bushfires and he asked serious questions, beyond the \"Do you come here often?\" that so many of the royals use as a substitute for conversation.He also wore informal clothes \u2013 Asics trainers and cords and open-necked shirts \u2013 some of them the same two days running. In short, how unlike the life of his own dear father, who needs a valet on tours and has been known to change suits several times a day.William even mingled with the press, albeit briefly, in a bar by Auckland harbour. I'd like to tell you what he said but, of course, it was all off the record, though he clearly knew the tabloid correspondents well and enjoyed the game of evading their attentions. Not surprisingly, they like him very much. It would be difficult not to.And the stardust rubbed off. Here's Ali Williams, towering All Blacks skunk-haired lock forward: \"He's got to do what he's got to do \u2013 he's only human, isn't he?\" And another Ali: Aunty Ali Golding, a 67-year-old Aboriginal woman from the Block who has met the Queen and Princess Anne and showed William photographs to prove it. \"You look as though you have met more of my family than I have,\" he told her. She said afterwards: \"I think he's excellent in his mannerisms \u2013 a real human being. His spirit was really down-to-earth. He's got the character and spirit of his mother and as long as he exists, she will. I think he would be a most excellent king.\"And here is a middle-aged, unshaven chap in vest and shorts, living in a cabin in the outback village of Flowerdale after his house burned down in last year's disastrous bushfire, who said to me: \"Look at that \u2013 he shook my hand!\"As William flies back, perhaps he will reflect that the royal duty that he speaks about will involve encounters and lobbying and receptions and barbecues and walkabouts and meetings with politicians and governors and prime ministers for the rest of his life. It is part of what monarchs do and always have done.What he will also know is that he will have to endure puerile analysis of everything he does. This week, there was the intense textual analysis that went on among the tabloids about whether he had really said he gets \"the piss\" taken out of him about his taste in music (he had, the BBC tape picked up as much) and whether anyone would be shocked or outraged by such an expression in this day and age. Or the picture of him emerging from the gents' toilet at the army range that the Melbourne Age saw fit to print yesterday with the caption: \"Royal flush . . . even royalty has to go.\"Then, of course, there will be the endless speculation about if and when he will marry his girlfriend Kate Middleton. \"Wait and see,\" he said airily this week, a remark sufficiently ambiguous to prompt more exegesis.So what have we learned of Prince William? Well, his taste in music, that gets the aforementioned piss taken out of him, turns out to include Linkin Park and Kanye West; that he believes he has no taste in clothes, though Harry's is worse; that he is a good shot and bad at table tennis (and even worse at Wii tennis); that he can keep a straight bat at cricket. And that his bald spot \u2013 the subject of much Australian mirth and New Zealand concern \u2013 is growing fast.We have learned, too, that the public is interested in him and that royalty can still produce fawning. \"God bless you William,\" the Aborigines cried as they queued up to have their photographs taken with him. (\"Course you can, my loves,\" he told them and, lapsing into the demotic, \"No worries.\")A palace aide said last night: \"I would not like to say whether we achieved the objective of giving him the chance of getting to know the people of these countries, but he has been incredibly gratified by the welcome he has received. It was a very successful tour and he enjoyed every moment.\"Does this turn back the long-term republican tide in Australia and New Zealand? Of course not: even though the impetus is currently lacking, a majority of both populations seems to want republicanism and Australian prime minister Kevin Rudd's spokeswoman this week suggested that, if Rudd's Labour government is re-elected later this year, it will initiate a debate \"in due season\".The fact is that celebrity and the royal touch will not sway everyone. As Professor George Williams of New South Wales University and the national committee of the Australian republican movement wrote this week in the Sydney Morning Herald: \"Having Prince William as our future king represents a failure, not on his part, but of ourselves.\"", "tags": ["Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "How Prince William won over Australia and New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-01-25T12:27:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A New Zealand tour operator has admitted hiring Europeans and Israelis to dress up in traditional Maori costumes, poke out their tongues and simulate a haka, or indigenous dance, to lure tourists from cruise ships.The Discovery Heritage Group director, Terina Puriri, who has Maori, German and English ancestry, dismissed outrage over the impostors, claiming she was making a positive contribution to the community as Maori were unwilling to promote their own heritage.\"Some of our Maori are too slack to promote themselves. Some of our Maori are too lazy to get out of bed to do that,\" Puriri said.\"They don't turn up and it's a known thing for Tauranga Maori to do that,\" she said.Puriri said the foreign performers who worked for her had learnt Maori customs and some of the local language, and had helped build a village on the outskirts of Tauranga, a port city on the east coast of the North Island, where the cruise ships docked.\"None of my team are backpackers or full-blood Maori. But the tourists love us purely because we are proud of our culture and we look beautiful.\"She said the critics were merely \"splitting hairs\".But Maori elder Iria Whiu said Puriri's comments were \"highly insulting\".Details of the performers emerged after it was revealed that tourists were being charged $NZ5 (\u00a32.20) by Auckland-born John Kairau to have their photo taken with a \"Maori in traditional dress\" \u2013 using their own camera.Puriri's company, which had contracts with some cruise ships to provide cultural liaison and perform on board, was now banned from the ports.The port's commercial manager, Graeme Marshall, said the performers were removed because they had false ID.\"The representation of who came through the gate into the port did not match up with their identification,\" he said.Kairau, who drew a Maori design, normally etched into the skin by tattoo, on to his face with a marker pen, had also been asked to leave the wharf.Puriri's performers now wait for potential customers outside the gates.\"They don't want culture on their port,\" she said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Race issues", "New Zealand holidays", "World news", "Travel", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand tour operator uses fake Maori performers"},{"date": "2010-01-22T00:05:25Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "In the end the lure of celebrity proved just too much. The arrival of the diffident 27-year-old Old Etonian, who might conceivably one day become their monarch, provoked sneers in Australia before he touched down on Tuesday. But by last night he had been transformed from Willy the Wombat into \u2013 acccording to the tabloid Herald Sun \u2013 a Dinkum Aussie Larrikin. You could go a long way through the Outback to find someone less like a larrikin (which usually translates as a bit of a hoodlum), but that's what the presence of royalty can do for you.Many thousands turned out to see the prince here in Australia and in New Zealand earlier in the week. Outside the new supreme court building in Wellington, which William had been sent to open on behalf of his grandmother, people greeted him with cheers and worried about the effect of the sun on his bald spot. Maoris beamed with pleasure that the grandson of the Great White Heron had come amongst them.In Sydney, Aborigines who spend their lives crammed into a dismal slum area called the Block came out in their thousands to welcome a young man as different from them as it is possible to imagine. William's gay fanbase turned out in \"I Love Willy\" T-shirts.And he did not disappoint. Like his mother before him, William hugged babies in hospital wards and spontaneously put his arms around elderly Aboriginal ladies. He listened gravely to survivors of last February's devastating Victoria bushfires. He joshed the parachute squaddies of the 3rd battalion Royal Australian Regiment on their firing range, where his shooting proficiency provoked genuine admiration.So, as he and his advisers flew back home last night \u2013 business class on a scheduled flight, not by private jet like some royals \u2013 they will undoubtedly feel buoyed up by success. They may even have been chortling gently that the pro-republican Melbourne Age noted yesterday, under the headline \"All-round Good Egg William Snares Many with his Charm Offensive\", that the prince \"may have done more to set back the republican cause than anything since the 1999 referendum\" \u2013 which, of course, the republicans narrowly lost.That is good news indeed for Buckingham Palace and, across the road, Clarence House, home of William's father Prince Charles. Because William is the best hope they have.Things are looking bleak for the monarchy right now. There isn't much stardust around for the foreseeable future: the Queen is approaching her mid-80s and, with no sign of ill health, may be good for another decade or (if she has inherited her mother's longevity) two. Her famously grumpy heir, Charles, is now 61; he will already be an old man when he inherits. So it is to the next generation the family must turn, even though William, already approaching his 30s, will probably be middle-aged by the time he is crowned.All the more reason, therefore, to pay attention to the prince's progress as he finally, by taking on grown-up engagements of this sort, begins to take the burden off the oldsters. This week was the first time that he has undertaken an official overseas tour (at least so far as the New Zealand leg of the trip was concerned) and, as fate would have it, it was to two countries that have been murmuring for years about dispensing with the monarch and having their own home-grown head of state.No wonder then that accompany- ing the prince was a small, elite team whose job it was to keep him from gaffes and pitfalls. Major Jamie Lowther-Pinkerton, the leathery, hatchet-faced former SAS man who is the prince's private secretary, was to be seen alongside him, glowering as he was handed yet another bouquet of flowers to carry (the flowers having been thrust at the prince during his walkabouts). Beside him, equally discreet, was Sir David Manning, the former diplomat whose career peaked as Tony Blair's foreign affairs adviser and then ambassador to the US during the period after the Iraq war. A small grey figure, he could be seen standing slightly apart from the crowd, quizzically viewing the prince, with whom he has a part-time advisory role. If every would-be monarch needs a mentor, Manning, who spent 36 years at the Foreign Office, fills that role.There were also three security police, a young press officer and a secretarial assistant, but this was not all: watching beadily from the public seats as William opened the New Zealand supreme court was none other than Christopher Geidt, the Queen's private secretary. Clearly uncomfortable at being spotted, he protested that he had only dropped by because he happened to be in Wellington: \"I am just on holiday and it was suggested I might like to look in.\"What all these helpers, official or otherwise, will have reported back to senior royals was how well William did. He was charming, empathetic, approachable and informal. He smiled and told jokes, he listened seriously and engaged with what people told him, he was clearly moved by the victims of the bushfires and he asked serious questions, beyond the \"Do you come here often?\" that so many of the royals use as a substitute for conversation.He also wore informal clothes \u2013 Asics trainers and cords and open-necked shirts \u2013 some of them the same two days running. In short, how unlike the life of his own dear father, who needs a valet on tours and has been known to change suits several times a day.William even mingled with the press, albeit briefly, in a bar by Auckland harbour. I'd like to tell you what he said but, of course, it was all off the record, though he clearly knew the tabloid correspondents well and enjoyed the game of evading their attentions. Not surprisingly, they like him very much. It would be difficult not to.And the stardust rubbed off. Here's Ali Williams, towering All Blacks skunk-haired lock forward: \"He's got to do what he's got to do \u2013 he's only human, isn't he?\" And another Ali: Aunty Ali Golding, a 67-year-old Aboriginal woman from the Block who has met the Queen and Princess Anne and showed William photographs to prove it. \"You look as though you have met more of my family than I have,\" he told her. She said afterwards: \"I think he's excellent in his mannerisms \u2013 a real human being. His spirit was really down-to-earth. He's got the character and spirit of his mother and as long as he exists, she will. I think he would be a most excellent king.\"And here is a middle-aged, unshaven chap in vest and shorts, living in a cabin in the outback village of Flowerdale after his house burned down in last year's disastrous bushfire, who said to me: \"Look at that \u2013 he shook my hand!\"As William flies back, perhaps he will reflect that the royal duty that he speaks about will involve encounters and lobbying and receptions and barbecues and walkabouts and meetings with politicians and governors and prime ministers for the rest of his life. It is part of what monarchs do and always have done.What he will also know is that he will have to endure puerile analysis of everything he does. This week, there was the intense textual analysis that went on among the tabloids about whether he had really said he gets \"the piss\" taken out of him about his taste in music (he had, the BBC tape picked up as much) and whether anyone would be shocked or outraged by such an expression in this day and age. Or the picture of him emerging from the gents' toilet at the army range that the Melbourne Age saw fit to print yesterday with the caption: \"Royal flush . . . even royalty has to go.\"Then, of course, there will be the endless speculation about if and when he will marry his girlfriend Kate Middleton. \"Wait and see,\" he said airily this week, a remark sufficiently ambiguous to prompt more exegesis.So what have we learned of Prince William? Well, his taste in music, that gets the aforementioned piss taken out of him, turns out to include Linkin Park and Kanye West; that he believes he has no taste in clothes, though Harry's is worse; that he is a good shot and bad at table tennis (and even worse at Wii tennis); that he can keep a straight bat at cricket. And that his bald spot \u2013 the subject of much Australian mirth and New Zealand concern \u2013 is growing fast.We have learned, too, that the public is interested in him and that royalty can still produce fawning. \"God bless you William,\" the Aborigines cried as they queued up to have their photographs taken with him. (\"Course you can, my loves,\" he told them and, lapsing into the demotic, \"No worries.\")A palace aide said last night: \"I would not like to say whether we achieved the objective of giving him the chance of getting to know the people of these countries, but he has been incredibly gratified by the welcome he has received. It was a very successful tour and he enjoyed every moment.\"Does this turn back the long-term republican tide in Australia and New Zealand? Of course not: even though the impetus is currently lacking, a majority of both populations seems to want republicanism and Australian prime minister Kevin Rudd's spokeswoman this week suggested that, if Rudd's Labour government is re-elected later this year, it will initiate a debate \"in due season\".The fact is that celebrity and the royal touch will not sway everyone. As Professor George Williams of New South Wales University and the national committee of the Australian republican movement wrote this week in the Sydney Morning Herald: \"Having Prince William as our future king represents a failure, not on his part, but of ourselves.\"", "tags": ["Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "How Prince William won over Australia and New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-01-27T10:09:03Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "When it comes to a long-haul flight to New Zealand, the thought of 24 hours in an up-right economy seat is enough to make anyone shudder. But economy-class passengers will soon have the chance to lie flat like their envied fellow travellers in business and first. Air New Zealand has unveiled plans to introduce \"beds\" in economy class, in what it is calling the first major improvement in economy class travel comfort in 20 years.Developed in-house by the airline's designers and engineers, the 22 \"Skycouches\" will take up the first 11 rows in the economy cabin of the carrier's new Boeing 777-300 planes, and will be formed out of three economy seats abreast that fold out to create a lie-flat space (complete with full size pillows) stretching right up to the seats in front. The increased space could also provide a valuable play and sleep area for those travelling with small children. For two adults travelling, purchasing the Skycouch will be based on buying two seats at standard prices with the third seat at approximately half price. Full airfare details will be announced when it goes on sale in late April.\"For those who choose, the days of sitting in economy and yearning to lie down and sleep are gone,\" Chief Executive Officer Rob Fyfe told reporters. \"The dream is now a reality, one that you can even share with a travelling companion \u2013 just keep your clothes on, thanks.\" The first routes to offer travellers the Skycouch will be between Auckland and Los Angeles from December 2010 and Auckland and London from April 2011. All other services will feature the seats by around 2012. The airline's Premium Economy Cabin will also be getting an upgrade and will feature \"Spaceseats,\" set two abreast (it is currently three abreast) and designed so that the centre aisle seats can angle together to allow couples to dine at a shared table.", "tags": ["Travel", "Air transport", "New Zealand holidays"], "title": "Air New Zealand unveils first lie-down economy bed"},{"date": "2010-01-25T12:27:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A New Zealand tour operator has admitted hiring Europeans and Israelis to dress up in traditional Maori costumes, poke out their tongues and simulate a haka, or indigenous dance, to lure tourists from cruise ships.The Discovery Heritage Group director, Terina Puriri, who has Maori, German and English ancestry, dismissed outrage over the impostors, claiming she was making a positive contribution to the community as Maori were unwilling to promote their own heritage.\"Some of our Maori are too slack to promote themselves. Some of our Maori are too lazy to get out of bed to do that,\" Puriri said.\"They don't turn up and it's a known thing for Tauranga Maori to do that,\" she said.Puriri said the foreign performers who worked for her had learnt Maori customs and some of the local language, and had helped build a village on the outskirts of Tauranga, a port city on the east coast of the North Island, where the cruise ships docked.\"None of my team are backpackers or full-blood Maori. But the tourists love us purely because we are proud of our culture and we look beautiful.\"She said the critics were merely \"splitting hairs\".But Maori elder Iria Whiu said Puriri's comments were \"highly insulting\".Details of the performers emerged after it was revealed that tourists were being charged $NZ5 (\u00a32.20) by Auckland-born John Kairau to have their photo taken with a \"Maori in traditional dress\" \u2013 using their own camera.Puriri's company, which had contracts with some cruise ships to provide cultural liaison and perform on board, was now banned from the ports.The port's commercial manager, Graeme Marshall, said the performers were removed because they had false ID.\"The representation of who came through the gate into the port did not match up with their identification,\" he said.Kairau, who drew a Maori design, normally etched into the skin by tattoo, on to his face with a marker pen, had also been asked to leave the wharf.Puriri's performers now wait for potential customers outside the gates.\"They don't want culture on their port,\" she said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Race issues", "New Zealand holidays", "World news", "Travel", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand tour operator uses fake Maori performers"},{"date": "2010-01-22T00:05:25Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "In the end the lure of celebrity proved just too much. The arrival of the diffident 27-year-old Old Etonian, who might conceivably one day become their monarch, provoked sneers in Australia before he touched down on Tuesday. But by last night he had been transformed from Willy the Wombat into \u2013 acccording to the tabloid Herald Sun \u2013 a Dinkum Aussie Larrikin. You could go a long way through the Outback to find someone less like a larrikin (which usually translates as a bit of a hoodlum), but that's what the presence of royalty can do for you.Many thousands turned out to see the prince here in Australia and in New Zealand earlier in the week. Outside the new supreme court building in Wellington, which William had been sent to open on behalf of his grandmother, people greeted him with cheers and worried about the effect of the sun on his bald spot. Maoris beamed with pleasure that the grandson of the Great White Heron had come amongst them.In Sydney, Aborigines who spend their lives crammed into a dismal slum area called the Block came out in their thousands to welcome a young man as different from them as it is possible to imagine. William's gay fanbase turned out in \"I Love Willy\" T-shirts.And he did not disappoint. Like his mother before him, William hugged babies in hospital wards and spontaneously put his arms around elderly Aboriginal ladies. He listened gravely to survivors of last February's devastating Victoria bushfires. He joshed the parachute squaddies of the 3rd battalion Royal Australian Regiment on their firing range, where his shooting proficiency provoked genuine admiration.So, as he and his advisers flew back home last night \u2013 business class on a scheduled flight, not by private jet like some royals \u2013 they will undoubtedly feel buoyed up by success. They may even have been chortling gently that the pro-republican Melbourne Age noted yesterday, under the headline \"All-round Good Egg William Snares Many with his Charm Offensive\", that the prince \"may have done more to set back the republican cause than anything since the 1999 referendum\" \u2013 which, of course, the republicans narrowly lost.That is good news indeed for Buckingham Palace and, across the road, Clarence House, home of William's father Prince Charles. Because William is the best hope they have.Things are looking bleak for the monarchy right now. There isn't much stardust around for the foreseeable future: the Queen is approaching her mid-80s and, with no sign of ill health, may be good for another decade or (if she has inherited her mother's longevity) two. Her famously grumpy heir, Charles, is now 61; he will already be an old man when he inherits. So it is to the next generation the family must turn, even though William, already approaching his 30s, will probably be middle-aged by the time he is crowned.All the more reason, therefore, to pay attention to the prince's progress as he finally, by taking on grown-up engagements of this sort, begins to take the burden off the oldsters. This week was the first time that he has undertaken an official overseas tour (at least so far as the New Zealand leg of the trip was concerned) and, as fate would have it, it was to two countries that have been murmuring for years about dispensing with the monarch and having their own home-grown head of state.No wonder then that accompany- ing the prince was a small, elite team whose job it was to keep him from gaffes and pitfalls. Major Jamie Lowther-Pinkerton, the leathery, hatchet-faced former SAS man who is the prince's private secretary, was to be seen alongside him, glowering as he was handed yet another bouquet of flowers to carry (the flowers having been thrust at the prince during his walkabouts). Beside him, equally discreet, was Sir David Manning, the former diplomat whose career peaked as Tony Blair's foreign affairs adviser and then ambassador to the US during the period after the Iraq war. A small grey figure, he could be seen standing slightly apart from the crowd, quizzically viewing the prince, with whom he has a part-time advisory role. If every would-be monarch needs a mentor, Manning, who spent 36 years at the Foreign Office, fills that role.There were also three security police, a young press officer and a secretarial assistant, but this was not all: watching beadily from the public seats as William opened the New Zealand supreme court was none other than Christopher Geidt, the Queen's private secretary. Clearly uncomfortable at being spotted, he protested that he had only dropped by because he happened to be in Wellington: \"I am just on holiday and it was suggested I might like to look in.\"What all these helpers, official or otherwise, will have reported back to senior royals was how well William did. He was charming, empathetic, approachable and informal. He smiled and told jokes, he listened seriously and engaged with what people told him, he was clearly moved by the victims of the bushfires and he asked serious questions, beyond the \"Do you come here often?\" that so many of the royals use as a substitute for conversation.He also wore informal clothes \u2013 Asics trainers and cords and open-necked shirts \u2013 some of them the same two days running. In short, how unlike the life of his own dear father, who needs a valet on tours and has been known to change suits several times a day.William even mingled with the press, albeit briefly, in a bar by Auckland harbour. I'd like to tell you what he said but, of course, it was all off the record, though he clearly knew the tabloid correspondents well and enjoyed the game of evading their attentions. Not surprisingly, they like him very much. It would be difficult not to.And the stardust rubbed off. Here's Ali Williams, towering All Blacks skunk-haired lock forward: \"He's got to do what he's got to do \u2013 he's only human, isn't he?\" And another Ali: Aunty Ali Golding, a 67-year-old Aboriginal woman from the Block who has met the Queen and Princess Anne and showed William photographs to prove it. \"You look as though you have met more of my family than I have,\" he told her. She said afterwards: \"I think he's excellent in his mannerisms \u2013 a real human being. His spirit was really down-to-earth. He's got the character and spirit of his mother and as long as he exists, she will. I think he would be a most excellent king.\"And here is a middle-aged, unshaven chap in vest and shorts, living in a cabin in the outback village of Flowerdale after his house burned down in last year's disastrous bushfire, who said to me: \"Look at that \u2013 he shook my hand!\"As William flies back, perhaps he will reflect that the royal duty that he speaks about will involve encounters and lobbying and receptions and barbecues and walkabouts and meetings with politicians and governors and prime ministers for the rest of his life. It is part of what monarchs do and always have done.What he will also know is that he will have to endure puerile analysis of everything he does. This week, there was the intense textual analysis that went on among the tabloids about whether he had really said he gets \"the piss\" taken out of him about his taste in music (he had, the BBC tape picked up as much) and whether anyone would be shocked or outraged by such an expression in this day and age. Or the picture of him emerging from the gents' toilet at the army range that the Melbourne Age saw fit to print yesterday with the caption: \"Royal flush . . . even royalty has to go.\"Then, of course, there will be the endless speculation about if and when he will marry his girlfriend Kate Middleton. \"Wait and see,\" he said airily this week, a remark sufficiently ambiguous to prompt more exegesis.So what have we learned of Prince William? Well, his taste in music, that gets the aforementioned piss taken out of him, turns out to include Linkin Park and Kanye West; that he believes he has no taste in clothes, though Harry's is worse; that he is a good shot and bad at table tennis (and even worse at Wii tennis); that he can keep a straight bat at cricket. And that his bald spot \u2013 the subject of much Australian mirth and New Zealand concern \u2013 is growing fast.We have learned, too, that the public is interested in him and that royalty can still produce fawning. \"God bless you William,\" the Aborigines cried as they queued up to have their photographs taken with him. (\"Course you can, my loves,\" he told them and, lapsing into the demotic, \"No worries.\")A palace aide said last night: \"I would not like to say whether we achieved the objective of giving him the chance of getting to know the people of these countries, but he has been incredibly gratified by the welcome he has received. It was a very successful tour and he enjoyed every moment.\"Does this turn back the long-term republican tide in Australia and New Zealand? Of course not: even though the impetus is currently lacking, a majority of both populations seems to want republicanism and Australian prime minister Kevin Rudd's spokeswoman this week suggested that, if Rudd's Labour government is re-elected later this year, it will initiate a debate \"in due season\".The fact is that celebrity and the royal touch will not sway everyone. As Professor George Williams of New South Wales University and the national committee of the Australian republican movement wrote this week in the Sydney Morning Herald: \"Having Prince William as our future king represents a failure, not on his part, but of ourselves.\"", "tags": ["Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "How Prince William won over Australia and New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-01-27T10:09:03Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "When it comes to a long-haul flight to New Zealand, the thought of 24 hours in an up-right economy seat is enough to make anyone shudder. But economy-class passengers will soon have the chance to lie flat like their envied fellow travellers in business and first. Air New Zealand has unveiled plans to introduce \"beds\" in economy class, in what it is calling the first major improvement in economy class travel comfort in 20 years.Developed in-house by the airline's designers and engineers, the 22 \"Skycouches\" will take up the first 11 rows in the economy cabin of the carrier's new Boeing 777-300 planes, and will be formed out of three economy seats abreast that fold out to create a lie-flat space (complete with full size pillows) stretching right up to the seats in front. The increased space could also provide a valuable play and sleep area for those travelling with small children. For two adults travelling, purchasing the Skycouch will be based on buying two seats at standard prices with the third seat at approximately half price. Full airfare details will be announced when it goes on sale in late April.\"For those who choose, the days of sitting in economy and yearning to lie down and sleep are gone,\" Chief Executive Officer Rob Fyfe told reporters. \"The dream is now a reality, one that you can even share with a travelling companion \u2013 just keep your clothes on, thanks.\" The first routes to offer travellers the Skycouch will be between Auckland and Los Angeles from December 2010 and Auckland and London from April 2011. All other services will feature the seats by around 2012. The airline's Premium Economy Cabin will also be getting an upgrade and will feature \"Spaceseats,\" set two abreast (it is currently three abreast) and designed so that the centre aisle seats can angle together to allow couples to dine at a shared table.", "tags": ["Travel", "Air transport", "New Zealand holidays"], "title": "Air New Zealand unveils first lie-down economy bed"},{"date": "2010-01-18T07:30:36Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "On the second day of Prince William's first official visit overseas, to New Zealand, he finally met a local who didn't want to meet him.In his case it was a drowsy Little Spotted Kiwi, rooted out of its undergrowth habitat and nocturnal routine the previous evening and kept in a box to be introduced to the prince on his visit to the astonishingly beautiful Kapiti Island reserve.The 2,000-acre (800-hectare) island, off the coast of North Island, near Wellington, is fiercely protected, with restricted public access, as the last home of several bird species unique to the country, among them 1,200 Little Spotteds, the flightless blue and green Takahe parrot and the fiercely acquisitive Wekas, small brown birds not averse, like many at tourist destinations, to relieving visitors of anything shiny.The prince's kiwi, about the size of a small chicken, is the smallest of the six sub-\u00adspecies of the bird and it deployed its defences against the unwelcome intrusion of visitors by unleashing a small shower of feathers, a move designed to distract attention.It is a tactic royals could perhaps consider deploying for themselves. As it was, the prince, gingerly holding the kiwi upside down, merely turned to the accompanying flock of press photographers and beamed knowingly: \"At last \u2013 me with a kiwi bird.\" They knew what he meant. Having received its few minutes of fame, the bird was allowed to scuttle back into the bush.Earlier in the day there had been no shortage of human inhabitants eager to meet the prince after he had officially opened the new supreme court building in Wellington \u2013 the ostensible purpose of the whole five-day trip.The 27-year-old prince was standing in for his grandmother for the first time in inaugurating the building, part of the palace's plan that he should take on more public engagements in future, in tandem with his training to be an air sea rescue helicopter pilot.Beadily watching him make his first, assured and competent speech, from the second row in the public seats, was none other than Christopher Geidt, the Queen's private secretary. \"I am just here on holiday and it was suggested I might like to look in,\" Geidt said, somewhat unconvincingly.\"I am not in shorts or anything,\" he added, unnecessarily as he was dressed in a business suit. \"Not even keeping an eye,\" he added, in response to the obvious question.Outside the court a crowd of several thousand had gathered by the time William left the building, with enthusiasts outnumbering protesters against the monarchy many times over. Indeed the few republicans present were also heavily outnumbered by a rival, noisy demonstration by court workers protesting about their working conditions.The prince embarked on a prolonged walkabout, insisting he did not wish to disappoint any of those waiting, and cheerily shook hands, received bouquets of flowers, posed for pictures and engaged small, star-struck infants in conversation as if he had been doing it all his life. There was even a touch of his grandfather: \"What are you doing here, you slackers?\" he called to a group of officer workers, but, lacking Prince Philip's strange ethereal charm, he did it without causing offence.The prince only blanched once, when a mother thrust a spectacularly grubby infant in his direction with the injunction to \"kiss my baby\". \"I'm not allowed \u2013 it's protocol,\" he replied hastily.The crowd all thought the prince was lovely, gorgeous but worried about the lack of sun block on his balding head in the fierce morning sun.William will fly on to Sydney and Melbourne tomorrow for an unofficial visit, albeit one where he will meet the Australian prime minister, Kevin Rudd, in a late-scheduled meeting.", "tags": ["Prince William", "New Zealand", "Monarchy", "UK news", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Prince William meets shy Kiwi on New Zealand visit"},{"date": "2010-09-03T23:21:22Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A powerful 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck New Zealand's South Island last night, causing widespread damage to buildings, although there were few injuries.Christchurch mayor Bob Parker declared a state of emergency four hours after tremors rocked the region, warning that continuing aftershocks could cause masonry to fall from damaged buildings.The quake hit 19 miles west of the city, on the east coast of the island, at 4.35am local time. Residents reported collapsed buildings and bridges, as well as power cuts. Christchurch, which has a population of around 400,000 people, was then rocked with a series of sharp aftershocks.No deaths have been reported so far but doctors at Christchurch Hospital said they had treated two men with serious injuries. One was hit by a falling chimney and was in intensive care, while a second was seriously hurt after being cut by glass, a hospital spokeswoman said. Other minor injuries have also been reported.\"There is considerable damage in the central city,\" police inspector Mike Coleman told New Zealand's National Radio.Police Inspector Alf Stewart told the station that some people had been arrested for looting. \"We have some reports of people smashing [shop] windows and trying to grab some property that is not theirs \u2026 we've got police on the streets and we're dealing with that,\" he said.Colleen Simpson, a Christchurch resident, said panicked neighbours ran into the streets in their pyjamas. She said some buildings had collapsed, there was no power and the mobile telephone network had failed. \"There is a row of shops completely demolished right in front of me,\" she told the Stuff news website.Another person from Christchurch, Kevin O'Hanlon, said the jolt was extremely powerful. \"I was awake to go to work and then just heard this massive noise and 'boom',\" he said. \"It was like the house got hit. It just started shaking. I've never felt anything like it.\"Bruce Russell, 50, said that although he lives in Lyttelton, a port town to the south of Christchurch, which is on firmer volcanic ground, the earthquake had been \"very alarming\".\"We were woken up at 4.30am and it swayed like a ship at sea,\" he said. \"It was very alarming. We have no power, which is a problem across [Christchurch]. We're listening to reports on a wind-up radio. It's still very frightening.\"Russell said he had not experienced an earthquake on this scale before. There have been local reports that some people many have been trapped in damaged houses.Video footage showed some cars crushed by heaps of fallen bricks. Authorities were advising residents to stay inside until given the all-clear.Residents have been asked not to flush toilets because of potential damage to the city's sewerage system which could lead to contamination. Christchurch airport was also closed as a precaution while runways were safety checked.Despite tsunami fears by residents, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said \"no destructive widespread tsunami threat existed, based on historical earthqake and tsunami data\".New Zealand lies above an area of the Earth's crust where two tectonic plates collide and the country records more than 14,000 earthquakes a year \u2013 but only about 150 are usually felt. Schoolchildren in the country regularly undertake earthquake drills.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Christchurch", "Cities"], "title": "Earthquake strikes Christchurch in New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-09-03T23:21:22Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A powerful 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck New Zealand's South Island last night, causing widespread damage to buildings, although there were few injuries.Christchurch mayor Bob Parker declared a state of emergency four hours after tremors rocked the region, warning that continuing aftershocks could cause masonry to fall from damaged buildings.The quake hit 19 miles west of the city, on the east coast of the island, at 4.35am local time. Residents reported collapsed buildings and bridges, as well as power cuts. Christchurch, which has a population of around 400,000 people, was then rocked with a series of sharp aftershocks.No deaths have been reported so far but doctors at Christchurch Hospital said they had treated two men with serious injuries. One was hit by a falling chimney and was in intensive care, while a second was seriously hurt after being cut by glass, a hospital spokeswoman said. Other minor injuries have also been reported.\"There is considerable damage in the central city,\" police inspector Mike Coleman told New Zealand's National Radio.Police Inspector Alf Stewart told the station that some people had been arrested for looting. \"We have some reports of people smashing [shop] windows and trying to grab some property that is not theirs \u2026 we've got police on the streets and we're dealing with that,\" he said.Colleen Simpson, a Christchurch resident, said panicked neighbours ran into the streets in their pyjamas. She said some buildings had collapsed, there was no power and the mobile telephone network had failed. \"There is a row of shops completely demolished right in front of me,\" she told the Stuff news website.Another person from Christchurch, Kevin O'Hanlon, said the jolt was extremely powerful. \"I was awake to go to work and then just heard this massive noise and 'boom',\" he said. \"It was like the house got hit. It just started shaking. I've never felt anything like it.\"Bruce Russell, 50, said that although he lives in Lyttelton, a port town to the south of Christchurch, which is on firmer volcanic ground, the earthquake had been \"very alarming\".\"We were woken up at 4.30am and it swayed like a ship at sea,\" he said. \"It was very alarming. We have no power, which is a problem across [Christchurch]. We're listening to reports on a wind-up radio. It's still very frightening.\"Russell said he had not experienced an earthquake on this scale before. There have been local reports that some people many have been trapped in damaged houses.Video footage showed some cars crushed by heaps of fallen bricks. Authorities were advising residents to stay inside until given the all-clear.Residents have been asked not to flush toilets because of potential damage to the city's sewerage system which could lead to contamination. Christchurch airport was also closed as a precaution while runways were safety checked.Despite tsunami fears by residents, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said \"no destructive widespread tsunami threat existed, based on historical earthqake and tsunami data\".New Zealand lies above an area of the Earth's crust where two tectonic plates collide and the country records more than 14,000 earthquakes a year \u2013 but only about 150 are usually felt. Schoolchildren in the country regularly undertake earthquake drills.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Christchurch", "Cities"], "title": "Earthquake strikes Christchurch in New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-09-04T09:30:26Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Nine people, including a British man, have died in a aircraft crash in New Zealand.The aircraft, carrying a party of skydivers and tourists, crashed and burst into flames shortly after takeoff from Fox Glacier airport on the west coast of the South Island, police said today.A police spokesman said five New Zealanders were killed, including the pilot, and individuals from Australia, Ireland, Germany and the UK.\"The embassies of each overseas victim have been informed and relatives are in the process of being advised,\" he said.The Foreign Office said: \"We can confirm that one British national has died. He has been identified and next of kin have been informed.\"New Zealand police said the bodies would remain at the crash site until tomorrow.The dead Irishman was later named locally as Patrick Byrne, 26, from Gorey, County Wexford. He had been in New Zealand on a working visa.Witnesses said the plane was almost totally destroyed in the accident, which happened at 1.15pm local time.A man told the New Zealand Herald: \"It was like a fireball and then there were big puffs of smoke going up. [The plane] was engulfed in flames immediately.\"Fox Glacier is a popular tourist spot in New Zealand's Southern Alps, about 90 miles from Christchurch, which was yesterday hit by an earthquake that damaged buildings and injured at least two people.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Plane crashes", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand plane crash kills nine"},{"date": "2010-09-03T23:21:22Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A powerful 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck New Zealand's South Island last night, causing widespread damage to buildings, although there were few injuries.Christchurch mayor Bob Parker declared a state of emergency four hours after tremors rocked the region, warning that continuing aftershocks could cause masonry to fall from damaged buildings.The quake hit 19 miles west of the city, on the east coast of the island, at 4.35am local time. Residents reported collapsed buildings and bridges, as well as power cuts. Christchurch, which has a population of around 400,000 people, was then rocked with a series of sharp aftershocks.No deaths have been reported so far but doctors at Christchurch Hospital said they had treated two men with serious injuries. One was hit by a falling chimney and was in intensive care, while a second was seriously hurt after being cut by glass, a hospital spokeswoman said. Other minor injuries have also been reported.\"There is considerable damage in the central city,\" police inspector Mike Coleman told New Zealand's National Radio.Police Inspector Alf Stewart told the station that some people had been arrested for looting. \"We have some reports of people smashing [shop] windows and trying to grab some property that is not theirs \u2026 we've got police on the streets and we're dealing with that,\" he said.Colleen Simpson, a Christchurch resident, said panicked neighbours ran into the streets in their pyjamas. She said some buildings had collapsed, there was no power and the mobile telephone network had failed. \"There is a row of shops completely demolished right in front of me,\" she told the Stuff news website.Another person from Christchurch, Kevin O'Hanlon, said the jolt was extremely powerful. \"I was awake to go to work and then just heard this massive noise and 'boom',\" he said. \"It was like the house got hit. It just started shaking. I've never felt anything like it.\"Bruce Russell, 50, said that although he lives in Lyttelton, a port town to the south of Christchurch, which is on firmer volcanic ground, the earthquake had been \"very alarming\".\"We were woken up at 4.30am and it swayed like a ship at sea,\" he said. \"It was very alarming. We have no power, which is a problem across [Christchurch]. We're listening to reports on a wind-up radio. It's still very frightening.\"Russell said he had not experienced an earthquake on this scale before. There have been local reports that some people many have been trapped in damaged houses.Video footage showed some cars crushed by heaps of fallen bricks. Authorities were advising residents to stay inside until given the all-clear.Residents have been asked not to flush toilets because of potential damage to the city's sewerage system which could lead to contamination. Christchurch airport was also closed as a precaution while runways were safety checked.Despite tsunami fears by residents, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said \"no destructive widespread tsunami threat existed, based on historical earthqake and tsunami data\".New Zealand lies above an area of the Earth's crust where two tectonic plates collide and the country records more than 14,000 earthquakes a year \u2013 but only about 150 are usually felt. Schoolchildren in the country regularly undertake earthquake drills.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Christchurch", "Cities"], "title": "Earthquake strikes Christchurch in New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-09-04T09:30:26Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Nine people, including a British man, have died in a aircraft crash in New Zealand.The aircraft, carrying a party of skydivers and tourists, crashed and burst into flames shortly after takeoff from Fox Glacier airport on the west coast of the South Island, police said today.A police spokesman said five New Zealanders were killed, including the pilot, and individuals from Australia, Ireland, Germany and the UK.\"The embassies of each overseas victim have been informed and relatives are in the process of being advised,\" he said.The Foreign Office said: \"We can confirm that one British national has died. He has been identified and next of kin have been informed.\"New Zealand police said the bodies would remain at the crash site until tomorrow.The dead Irishman was later named locally as Patrick Byrne, 26, from Gorey, County Wexford. He had been in New Zealand on a working visa.Witnesses said the plane was almost totally destroyed in the accident, which happened at 1.15pm local time.A man told the New Zealand Herald: \"It was like a fireball and then there were big puffs of smoke going up. [The plane] was engulfed in flames immediately.\"Fox Glacier is a popular tourist spot in New Zealand's Southern Alps, about 90 miles from Christchurch, which was yesterday hit by an earthquake that damaged buildings and injured at least two people.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Plane crashes", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand plane crash kills nine"},{"date": "2010-08-20T23:06:03Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Our dream for New Zealand's South Island was very simple: one campervan, two friends, three weeks, four feet on the dashboard and a cold beer when we pulled up at night.We set off with a monumental greed to experience New Zealand's wild places, to spend as much time as possible in the non-human world, swimming in freezing rivers, getting lost in the acoustics of the rainforest, drinking from streams and camping out under stars. We wanted to swim with dolphins and fur seals, wake to the piping of bellbirds, hear trees sigh and flightless birds shuffle.In elemental form, the route was dolphins \u2013 backcountry \u2013 mountains \u2013 stars \u2013 rainforest. In map terms, the route was Christchurch, Kaikoura and Picton marine reserves, Marlborough Sounds and Abel Tasman, then back down the wild wet west coast to Mount Cook. Ending at Queenstown with a luxury trip walking the Routeburn, and swimming every part of the way.Setting out before Christmas, we stopped first at the dusty seaside town of Kaikoura, a low series of faded pastel buildings, assaulted by a fierce combination of hot sun and icy southerlies.A deep offshore trench there brings whales, seals and birds from the Antarctic, and the town offers truly wild, wild swimming with seals and dolphins \u2013 craft are tightly restricted, and the animals are not fed or induced towards boats. An offshore storm meant boats couldn't take swimmers out during our stay so we watched waves breaking over a hulking grey sperm whale from a plane instead, then took a screaming dip in the sea, the temperature proving that we were not far from the south pole, that we were in the albatross latitudes.Higher up on the southern tip of South Island, locals pointed us to swimming holes whenever asked. Between Marlborough Sounds and Abel Tasman we pulled in at the Trout Hotel before Canvastown, and bumped our way down the Wakamarina track to the Butchers Flat car park, past a sign saying: \"Keep going, it's worth it\", to a series of emerald pools.We spent an afternoon swimming in the deserted gorge, clambering over grey river stones in the cold trout stream, before returning to Pelorus Bridge. Here children hurled themselves into the swimming hole repeatedly, but if you're feeling adventurous you can float down beyond the bridge into the gorge, and around to Totara Flat \u2013 a good 20-minute swim but a five-minute walk back due to the loop in the river.At Abel Tasman we parked at the Old Macdonald Farm holiday park (oldmacs.co.nz) in Marahau, where roses trailed around the van and the day's hikes could be topped and tailed in the on-site swimming holes.After the heat of Abel Tasman, the glory of the west coast was not the glaciers but the weather, and the area was best experienced through fast-moving wipers. We pulled up for the night at Cape Foulwind, which is not whimsically named, and spent a sleepless night in the dark drum of a storm, rain thrumming the roof and the van rocking and swaying. The next morning tidelines were littered with huge, waterlogged trees, washed up by the stormy seas.Then we were in another, golden world \u2013 blinding sun reflected off the Franz Josef glacier, rivers the colour of opals in Haast, the Mackenzie basin, with its scorched cornfields.At Mount John Observatory near Mount Cook, protected from light pollution, we spent an evening gazing through telescopes at belts around Jupiter, the craters of the moon, the galaxy within the Southern Cross (newzealandsky.com/earthandsky).The final stop was the Routeburn (doc.govt.nz), a three-day trek through the soak of a rainforest, and a swim in snowmelt. At night thunder trembled the window of our shelter, with spear grass lit up intermittently by sheet lightning.By now we were drunk on landscapes. River, rock and sky, never wanting to return to the world of the humans.\u2022 For more information on New Zealand and to see more of Kate Rew's videos of her journey, visit the Tourism New Zealand website, newzealand.com/katerewExpedia (0330 123 1235, expedia.co.uk) offers a wide choice of flights and hotels for visitors to New Zealand, including return flights from Gatwick to Auckland from \u00a3924 with Emirates. Maui Motorhomes cost from \u00a388 a day based on a week's hire (maui.co.nz, international toll free: +800 200 80 801). Book before 30 September for 20% discount off the daily rate for a Maui Spirit 4 or Spirit 6 for travel between 1 Oct 2010 and 31 March 2011 (excluding 15 Dec-15 Jan). New bookings only ", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Swimming holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Cetaceans"], "title": "Different strokes \u2013 wild swimming in New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-09-03T23:21:22Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A powerful 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck New Zealand's South Island last night, causing widespread damage to buildings, although there were few injuries.Christchurch mayor Bob Parker declared a state of emergency four hours after tremors rocked the region, warning that continuing aftershocks could cause masonry to fall from damaged buildings.The quake hit 19 miles west of the city, on the east coast of the island, at 4.35am local time. Residents reported collapsed buildings and bridges, as well as power cuts. Christchurch, which has a population of around 400,000 people, was then rocked with a series of sharp aftershocks.No deaths have been reported so far but doctors at Christchurch Hospital said they had treated two men with serious injuries. One was hit by a falling chimney and was in intensive care, while a second was seriously hurt after being cut by glass, a hospital spokeswoman said. Other minor injuries have also been reported.\"There is considerable damage in the central city,\" police inspector Mike Coleman told New Zealand's National Radio.Police Inspector Alf Stewart told the station that some people had been arrested for looting. \"We have some reports of people smashing [shop] windows and trying to grab some property that is not theirs \u2026 we've got police on the streets and we're dealing with that,\" he said.Colleen Simpson, a Christchurch resident, said panicked neighbours ran into the streets in their pyjamas. She said some buildings had collapsed, there was no power and the mobile telephone network had failed. \"There is a row of shops completely demolished right in front of me,\" she told the Stuff news website.Another person from Christchurch, Kevin O'Hanlon, said the jolt was extremely powerful. \"I was awake to go to work and then just heard this massive noise and 'boom',\" he said. \"It was like the house got hit. It just started shaking. I've never felt anything like it.\"Bruce Russell, 50, said that although he lives in Lyttelton, a port town to the south of Christchurch, which is on firmer volcanic ground, the earthquake had been \"very alarming\".\"We were woken up at 4.30am and it swayed like a ship at sea,\" he said. \"It was very alarming. We have no power, which is a problem across [Christchurch]. We're listening to reports on a wind-up radio. It's still very frightening.\"Russell said he had not experienced an earthquake on this scale before. There have been local reports that some people many have been trapped in damaged houses.Video footage showed some cars crushed by heaps of fallen bricks. Authorities were advising residents to stay inside until given the all-clear.Residents have been asked not to flush toilets because of potential damage to the city's sewerage system which could lead to contamination. Christchurch airport was also closed as a precaution while runways were safety checked.Despite tsunami fears by residents, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said \"no destructive widespread tsunami threat existed, based on historical earthqake and tsunami data\".New Zealand lies above an area of the Earth's crust where two tectonic plates collide and the country records more than 14,000 earthquakes a year \u2013 but only about 150 are usually felt. Schoolchildren in the country regularly undertake earthquake drills.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Christchurch", "Cities"], "title": "Earthquake strikes Christchurch in New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-09-04T09:30:26Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Nine people, including a British man, have died in a aircraft crash in New Zealand.The aircraft, carrying a party of skydivers and tourists, crashed and burst into flames shortly after takeoff from Fox Glacier airport on the west coast of the South Island, police said today.A police spokesman said five New Zealanders were killed, including the pilot, and individuals from Australia, Ireland, Germany and the UK.\"The embassies of each overseas victim have been informed and relatives are in the process of being advised,\" he said.The Foreign Office said: \"We can confirm that one British national has died. He has been identified and next of kin have been informed.\"New Zealand police said the bodies would remain at the crash site until tomorrow.The dead Irishman was later named locally as Patrick Byrne, 26, from Gorey, County Wexford. He had been in New Zealand on a working visa.Witnesses said the plane was almost totally destroyed in the accident, which happened at 1.15pm local time.A man told the New Zealand Herald: \"It was like a fireball and then there were big puffs of smoke going up. [The plane] was engulfed in flames immediately.\"Fox Glacier is a popular tourist spot in New Zealand's Southern Alps, about 90 miles from Christchurch, which was yesterday hit by an earthquake that damaged buildings and injured at least two people.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Plane crashes", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand plane crash kills nine"},{"date": "2010-08-20T23:06:03Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Our dream for New Zealand's South Island was very simple: one campervan, two friends, three weeks, four feet on the dashboard and a cold beer when we pulled up at night.We set off with a monumental greed to experience New Zealand's wild places, to spend as much time as possible in the non-human world, swimming in freezing rivers, getting lost in the acoustics of the rainforest, drinking from streams and camping out under stars. We wanted to swim with dolphins and fur seals, wake to the piping of bellbirds, hear trees sigh and flightless birds shuffle.In elemental form, the route was dolphins \u2013 backcountry \u2013 mountains \u2013 stars \u2013 rainforest. In map terms, the route was Christchurch, Kaikoura and Picton marine reserves, Marlborough Sounds and Abel Tasman, then back down the wild wet west coast to Mount Cook. Ending at Queenstown with a luxury trip walking the Routeburn, and swimming every part of the way.Setting out before Christmas, we stopped first at the dusty seaside town of Kaikoura, a low series of faded pastel buildings, assaulted by a fierce combination of hot sun and icy southerlies.A deep offshore trench there brings whales, seals and birds from the Antarctic, and the town offers truly wild, wild swimming with seals and dolphins \u2013 craft are tightly restricted, and the animals are not fed or induced towards boats. An offshore storm meant boats couldn't take swimmers out during our stay so we watched waves breaking over a hulking grey sperm whale from a plane instead, then took a screaming dip in the sea, the temperature proving that we were not far from the south pole, that we were in the albatross latitudes.Higher up on the southern tip of South Island, locals pointed us to swimming holes whenever asked. Between Marlborough Sounds and Abel Tasman we pulled in at the Trout Hotel before Canvastown, and bumped our way down the Wakamarina track to the Butchers Flat car park, past a sign saying: \"Keep going, it's worth it\", to a series of emerald pools.We spent an afternoon swimming in the deserted gorge, clambering over grey river stones in the cold trout stream, before returning to Pelorus Bridge. Here children hurled themselves into the swimming hole repeatedly, but if you're feeling adventurous you can float down beyond the bridge into the gorge, and around to Totara Flat \u2013 a good 20-minute swim but a five-minute walk back due to the loop in the river.At Abel Tasman we parked at the Old Macdonald Farm holiday park (oldmacs.co.nz) in Marahau, where roses trailed around the van and the day's hikes could be topped and tailed in the on-site swimming holes.After the heat of Abel Tasman, the glory of the west coast was not the glaciers but the weather, and the area was best experienced through fast-moving wipers. We pulled up for the night at Cape Foulwind, which is not whimsically named, and spent a sleepless night in the dark drum of a storm, rain thrumming the roof and the van rocking and swaying. The next morning tidelines were littered with huge, waterlogged trees, washed up by the stormy seas.Then we were in another, golden world \u2013 blinding sun reflected off the Franz Josef glacier, rivers the colour of opals in Haast, the Mackenzie basin, with its scorched cornfields.At Mount John Observatory near Mount Cook, protected from light pollution, we spent an evening gazing through telescopes at belts around Jupiter, the craters of the moon, the galaxy within the Southern Cross (newzealandsky.com/earthandsky).The final stop was the Routeburn (doc.govt.nz), a three-day trek through the soak of a rainforest, and a swim in snowmelt. At night thunder trembled the window of our shelter, with spear grass lit up intermittently by sheet lightning.By now we were drunk on landscapes. River, rock and sky, never wanting to return to the world of the humans.\u2022 For more information on New Zealand and to see more of Kate Rew's videos of her journey, visit the Tourism New Zealand website, newzealand.com/katerewExpedia (0330 123 1235, expedia.co.uk) offers a wide choice of flights and hotels for visitors to New Zealand, including return flights from Gatwick to Auckland from \u00a3924 with Emirates. Maui Motorhomes cost from \u00a388 a day based on a week's hire (maui.co.nz, international toll free: +800 200 80 801). Book before 30 September for 20% discount off the daily rate for a Maui Spirit 4 or Spirit 6 for travel between 1 Oct 2010 and 31 March 2011 (excluding 15 Dec-15 Jan). New bookings only ", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Swimming holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Cetaceans"], "title": "Different strokes \u2013 wild swimming in New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-08-02T07:55:09Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Police in the New Zealand city of Gisborne have decided to stop telling the local newspaper about incidents of crime. It is holding back the data so that \"people feel safer\".Instead of listing every incident the police force will \"streamline information\" to provide \"an overview\" of criminal activity.\"Our daily feed of information to the media does not provide the right recipe for the community in terms of important information they need to know,\" said police commander Sam Aberahama. The response from the Gisborne Herald was a sarcastic article mocking the change of policy, Crime, what crime? Editor Jeremy Muir called the unilateral restriction on crime news as straight out of \"the communist manual\".And the country's leading daily newspaper, the New Zealand Herald, was equally dismissive. In an editorial, Keeping mum on crime won't make it stop, it challenged the notion that what the public doesn't know can't hurt them.\"It is wholly misguided,\" said the article. \"People will feel safer in their homes and on the streets once the crime rate is reduced and the police 'clearance' rate of crime improves with more lawbreakers caught and prosecuted... \"Suppressing the information available to the public is the last refuge of policy failure.\"Sources: New Zealand Herald/Gisborne Herald", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand police to restrict reporting of crime news"},{"date": "2010-09-03T23:21:22Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A powerful 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck New Zealand's South Island last night, causing widespread damage to buildings, although there were few injuries.Christchurch mayor Bob Parker declared a state of emergency four hours after tremors rocked the region, warning that continuing aftershocks could cause masonry to fall from damaged buildings.The quake hit 19 miles west of the city, on the east coast of the island, at 4.35am local time. Residents reported collapsed buildings and bridges, as well as power cuts. Christchurch, which has a population of around 400,000 people, was then rocked with a series of sharp aftershocks.No deaths have been reported so far but doctors at Christchurch Hospital said they had treated two men with serious injuries. One was hit by a falling chimney and was in intensive care, while a second was seriously hurt after being cut by glass, a hospital spokeswoman said. Other minor injuries have also been reported.\"There is considerable damage in the central city,\" police inspector Mike Coleman told New Zealand's National Radio.Police Inspector Alf Stewart told the station that some people had been arrested for looting. \"We have some reports of people smashing [shop] windows and trying to grab some property that is not theirs \u2026 we've got police on the streets and we're dealing with that,\" he said.Colleen Simpson, a Christchurch resident, said panicked neighbours ran into the streets in their pyjamas. She said some buildings had collapsed, there was no power and the mobile telephone network had failed. \"There is a row of shops completely demolished right in front of me,\" she told the Stuff news website.Another person from Christchurch, Kevin O'Hanlon, said the jolt was extremely powerful. \"I was awake to go to work and then just heard this massive noise and 'boom',\" he said. \"It was like the house got hit. It just started shaking. I've never felt anything like it.\"Bruce Russell, 50, said that although he lives in Lyttelton, a port town to the south of Christchurch, which is on firmer volcanic ground, the earthquake had been \"very alarming\".\"We were woken up at 4.30am and it swayed like a ship at sea,\" he said. \"It was very alarming. We have no power, which is a problem across [Christchurch]. We're listening to reports on a wind-up radio. It's still very frightening.\"Russell said he had not experienced an earthquake on this scale before. There have been local reports that some people many have been trapped in damaged houses.Video footage showed some cars crushed by heaps of fallen bricks. Authorities were advising residents to stay inside until given the all-clear.Residents have been asked not to flush toilets because of potential damage to the city's sewerage system which could lead to contamination. Christchurch airport was also closed as a precaution while runways were safety checked.Despite tsunami fears by residents, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said \"no destructive widespread tsunami threat existed, based on historical earthqake and tsunami data\".New Zealand lies above an area of the Earth's crust where two tectonic plates collide and the country records more than 14,000 earthquakes a year \u2013 but only about 150 are usually felt. Schoolchildren in the country regularly undertake earthquake drills.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Christchurch", "Cities"], "title": "Earthquake strikes Christchurch in New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-09-04T09:30:26Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Nine people, including a British man, have died in a aircraft crash in New Zealand.The aircraft, carrying a party of skydivers and tourists, crashed and burst into flames shortly after takeoff from Fox Glacier airport on the west coast of the South Island, police said today.A police spokesman said five New Zealanders were killed, including the pilot, and individuals from Australia, Ireland, Germany and the UK.\"The embassies of each overseas victim have been informed and relatives are in the process of being advised,\" he said.The Foreign Office said: \"We can confirm that one British national has died. He has been identified and next of kin have been informed.\"New Zealand police said the bodies would remain at the crash site until tomorrow.The dead Irishman was later named locally as Patrick Byrne, 26, from Gorey, County Wexford. He had been in New Zealand on a working visa.Witnesses said the plane was almost totally destroyed in the accident, which happened at 1.15pm local time.A man told the New Zealand Herald: \"It was like a fireball and then there were big puffs of smoke going up. [The plane] was engulfed in flames immediately.\"Fox Glacier is a popular tourist spot in New Zealand's Southern Alps, about 90 miles from Christchurch, which was yesterday hit by an earthquake that damaged buildings and injured at least two people.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Plane crashes", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand plane crash kills nine"},{"date": "2010-08-20T23:06:03Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Our dream for New Zealand's South Island was very simple: one campervan, two friends, three weeks, four feet on the dashboard and a cold beer when we pulled up at night.We set off with a monumental greed to experience New Zealand's wild places, to spend as much time as possible in the non-human world, swimming in freezing rivers, getting lost in the acoustics of the rainforest, drinking from streams and camping out under stars. We wanted to swim with dolphins and fur seals, wake to the piping of bellbirds, hear trees sigh and flightless birds shuffle.In elemental form, the route was dolphins \u2013 backcountry \u2013 mountains \u2013 stars \u2013 rainforest. In map terms, the route was Christchurch, Kaikoura and Picton marine reserves, Marlborough Sounds and Abel Tasman, then back down the wild wet west coast to Mount Cook. Ending at Queenstown with a luxury trip walking the Routeburn, and swimming every part of the way.Setting out before Christmas, we stopped first at the dusty seaside town of Kaikoura, a low series of faded pastel buildings, assaulted by a fierce combination of hot sun and icy southerlies.A deep offshore trench there brings whales, seals and birds from the Antarctic, and the town offers truly wild, wild swimming with seals and dolphins \u2013 craft are tightly restricted, and the animals are not fed or induced towards boats. An offshore storm meant boats couldn't take swimmers out during our stay so we watched waves breaking over a hulking grey sperm whale from a plane instead, then took a screaming dip in the sea, the temperature proving that we were not far from the south pole, that we were in the albatross latitudes.Higher up on the southern tip of South Island, locals pointed us to swimming holes whenever asked. Between Marlborough Sounds and Abel Tasman we pulled in at the Trout Hotel before Canvastown, and bumped our way down the Wakamarina track to the Butchers Flat car park, past a sign saying: \"Keep going, it's worth it\", to a series of emerald pools.We spent an afternoon swimming in the deserted gorge, clambering over grey river stones in the cold trout stream, before returning to Pelorus Bridge. Here children hurled themselves into the swimming hole repeatedly, but if you're feeling adventurous you can float down beyond the bridge into the gorge, and around to Totara Flat \u2013 a good 20-minute swim but a five-minute walk back due to the loop in the river.At Abel Tasman we parked at the Old Macdonald Farm holiday park (oldmacs.co.nz) in Marahau, where roses trailed around the van and the day's hikes could be topped and tailed in the on-site swimming holes.After the heat of Abel Tasman, the glory of the west coast was not the glaciers but the weather, and the area was best experienced through fast-moving wipers. We pulled up for the night at Cape Foulwind, which is not whimsically named, and spent a sleepless night in the dark drum of a storm, rain thrumming the roof and the van rocking and swaying. The next morning tidelines were littered with huge, waterlogged trees, washed up by the stormy seas.Then we were in another, golden world \u2013 blinding sun reflected off the Franz Josef glacier, rivers the colour of opals in Haast, the Mackenzie basin, with its scorched cornfields.At Mount John Observatory near Mount Cook, protected from light pollution, we spent an evening gazing through telescopes at belts around Jupiter, the craters of the moon, the galaxy within the Southern Cross (newzealandsky.com/earthandsky).The final stop was the Routeburn (doc.govt.nz), a three-day trek through the soak of a rainforest, and a swim in snowmelt. At night thunder trembled the window of our shelter, with spear grass lit up intermittently by sheet lightning.By now we were drunk on landscapes. River, rock and sky, never wanting to return to the world of the humans.\u2022 For more information on New Zealand and to see more of Kate Rew's videos of her journey, visit the Tourism New Zealand website, newzealand.com/katerewExpedia (0330 123 1235, expedia.co.uk) offers a wide choice of flights and hotels for visitors to New Zealand, including return flights from Gatwick to Auckland from \u00a3924 with Emirates. Maui Motorhomes cost from \u00a388 a day based on a week's hire (maui.co.nz, international toll free: +800 200 80 801). Book before 30 September for 20% discount off the daily rate for a Maui Spirit 4 or Spirit 6 for travel between 1 Oct 2010 and 31 March 2011 (excluding 15 Dec-15 Jan). New bookings only ", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Swimming holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Cetaceans"], "title": "Different strokes \u2013 wild swimming in New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-08-02T07:55:09Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Police in the New Zealand city of Gisborne have decided to stop telling the local newspaper about incidents of crime. It is holding back the data so that \"people feel safer\".Instead of listing every incident the police force will \"streamline information\" to provide \"an overview\" of criminal activity.\"Our daily feed of information to the media does not provide the right recipe for the community in terms of important information they need to know,\" said police commander Sam Aberahama. The response from the Gisborne Herald was a sarcastic article mocking the change of policy, Crime, what crime? Editor Jeremy Muir called the unilateral restriction on crime news as straight out of \"the communist manual\".And the country's leading daily newspaper, the New Zealand Herald, was equally dismissive. In an editorial, Keeping mum on crime won't make it stop, it challenged the notion that what the public doesn't know can't hurt them.\"It is wholly misguided,\" said the article. \"People will feel safer in their homes and on the streets once the crime rate is reduced and the police 'clearance' rate of crime improves with more lawbreakers caught and prosecuted... \"Suppressing the information available to the public is the last refuge of policy failure.\"Sources: New Zealand Herald/Gisborne Herald", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand police to restrict reporting of crime news"},{"date": "2010-09-27T16:30:57Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand plans to tighten controls on foreign land purchases amid fears that the Chinese acquisition of local farms may not be in the country's strategic interests.The new rules were announced today after a fierce public backlash against a Hong Kong-listed firm that attempted to buy New Zealand's biggest private dairy farm.Natural Dairy \u2013 previously known as the China Jin Hui Mining Corporation \u2013 offered to pay NZ$1.5bn for farmland, cattle and milk powder production plants, according to the domestic media.This bid for the Crafer family's farms \u2013 now under review \u2013 has stirred up considerable concern in a country that depends on the dairy industry for almost a quarter of its export earnings.New Zealand's farmers warn that state-backed Chinese investors are taking advantage of the economic downturn to buy land cheaply, so that they are in a strong position for a sharp rise in global population and demand for food. China already feeds a fifth of the world's population on less than a tenth of the planet's arable land.The Federated Farmers of New Zealand say planned Chinese purchases of arable land are unfair because foreign firms are forbidden from acquiring similarly large swathes of farmland in China.Under the new rules, the government will introduce extra tests on overseas investment applications for \"sensitive land\". The buy-ups will have to be judged in relation to the nation's economic interests before approval.Finance minister Bill English said the measures aimed to strike a balance. \"It's important that we welcome beneficial foreign investment and recognise the positive contribution it makes to New Zealand through increased jobs, capital and access to export markets,\" English said. \"At the same time, the government recognises there are genuine public concerns about aspects of certain types of overseas investment.\"The measure, which comes into effect at the end of the year, highlights growing anxiety about cross-border land acquisitions. China is not the only country looking to increase its holdings of arable land overseas. Saudi Arabia, Japan and South Korea are among the other nations bidding for farm property in New Zealand, Australia, Ethiopia and elsewhere.Earlier this year, the Observer reported that the total area being bought up by rich nations was more than double the size of the UK. A recent forecast rise in food prices prompted crisis talks at the United Nations and increased speculation in the commodity and land markets.Those involved in the deals accuse critics of racism and hypocrisy \u2013 not least because much of the land, particularly in Australia and New Zealand, was taken from the original inhabitants by white settlers.Bill Ralston, a spokesman for Natural Dairy, said that his firm's bid was being unfairly treated because it was Chinese. \"In the last three years, 13 different applications to acquire land have been approved in New Zealand mainly from Europe, Australia, the US and Russia \u2013 something like $380m of acquisitions, and not a dickey bird!\" he told the local media. \"The sudden prominence of Chinese investments and the paranoia has set in.\"To order Jonathan Watts' eco-travelogue, When A Billion Chinese Jump, for \u00a39.99 (RRP \u00a314.99) call 0330 333 6846 in the UK or visit guardianbooks.co.uk", "tags": ["Food", "Farming", "Environment", "New Zealand", "China", "World news", "Business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand puts squeeze on foreign farmland purchasing"},{"date": "2010-09-03T23:21:22Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A powerful 7.0 magnitude earthquake struck New Zealand's South Island last night, causing widespread damage to buildings, although there were few injuries.Christchurch mayor Bob Parker declared a state of emergency four hours after tremors rocked the region, warning that continuing aftershocks could cause masonry to fall from damaged buildings.The quake hit 19 miles west of the city, on the east coast of the island, at 4.35am local time. Residents reported collapsed buildings and bridges, as well as power cuts. Christchurch, which has a population of around 400,000 people, was then rocked with a series of sharp aftershocks.No deaths have been reported so far but doctors at Christchurch Hospital said they had treated two men with serious injuries. One was hit by a falling chimney and was in intensive care, while a second was seriously hurt after being cut by glass, a hospital spokeswoman said. Other minor injuries have also been reported.\"There is considerable damage in the central city,\" police inspector Mike Coleman told New Zealand's National Radio.Police Inspector Alf Stewart told the station that some people had been arrested for looting. \"We have some reports of people smashing [shop] windows and trying to grab some property that is not theirs \u2026 we've got police on the streets and we're dealing with that,\" he said.Colleen Simpson, a Christchurch resident, said panicked neighbours ran into the streets in their pyjamas. She said some buildings had collapsed, there was no power and the mobile telephone network had failed. \"There is a row of shops completely demolished right in front of me,\" she told the Stuff news website.Another person from Christchurch, Kevin O'Hanlon, said the jolt was extremely powerful. \"I was awake to go to work and then just heard this massive noise and 'boom',\" he said. \"It was like the house got hit. It just started shaking. I've never felt anything like it.\"Bruce Russell, 50, said that although he lives in Lyttelton, a port town to the south of Christchurch, which is on firmer volcanic ground, the earthquake had been \"very alarming\".\"We were woken up at 4.30am and it swayed like a ship at sea,\" he said. \"It was very alarming. We have no power, which is a problem across [Christchurch]. We're listening to reports on a wind-up radio. It's still very frightening.\"Russell said he had not experienced an earthquake on this scale before. There have been local reports that some people many have been trapped in damaged houses.Video footage showed some cars crushed by heaps of fallen bricks. Authorities were advising residents to stay inside until given the all-clear.Residents have been asked not to flush toilets because of potential damage to the city's sewerage system which could lead to contamination. Christchurch airport was also closed as a precaution while runways were safety checked.Despite tsunami fears by residents, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said \"no destructive widespread tsunami threat existed, based on historical earthqake and tsunami data\".New Zealand lies above an area of the Earth's crust where two tectonic plates collide and the country records more than 14,000 earthquakes a year \u2013 but only about 150 are usually felt. Schoolchildren in the country regularly undertake earthquake drills.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Christchurch", "Cities"], "title": "Earthquake strikes Christchurch in New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-09-04T09:30:26Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Nine people, including a British man, have died in a aircraft crash in New Zealand.The aircraft, carrying a party of skydivers and tourists, crashed and burst into flames shortly after takeoff from Fox Glacier airport on the west coast of the South Island, police said today.A police spokesman said five New Zealanders were killed, including the pilot, and individuals from Australia, Ireland, Germany and the UK.\"The embassies of each overseas victim have been informed and relatives are in the process of being advised,\" he said.The Foreign Office said: \"We can confirm that one British national has died. He has been identified and next of kin have been informed.\"New Zealand police said the bodies would remain at the crash site until tomorrow.The dead Irishman was later named locally as Patrick Byrne, 26, from Gorey, County Wexford. He had been in New Zealand on a working visa.Witnesses said the plane was almost totally destroyed in the accident, which happened at 1.15pm local time.A man told the New Zealand Herald: \"It was like a fireball and then there were big puffs of smoke going up. [The plane] was engulfed in flames immediately.\"Fox Glacier is a popular tourist spot in New Zealand's Southern Alps, about 90 miles from Christchurch, which was yesterday hit by an earthquake that damaged buildings and injured at least two people.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Plane crashes", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand plane crash kills nine"},{"date": "2010-08-20T23:06:03Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Our dream for New Zealand's South Island was very simple: one campervan, two friends, three weeks, four feet on the dashboard and a cold beer when we pulled up at night.We set off with a monumental greed to experience New Zealand's wild places, to spend as much time as possible in the non-human world, swimming in freezing rivers, getting lost in the acoustics of the rainforest, drinking from streams and camping out under stars. We wanted to swim with dolphins and fur seals, wake to the piping of bellbirds, hear trees sigh and flightless birds shuffle.In elemental form, the route was dolphins \u2013 backcountry \u2013 mountains \u2013 stars \u2013 rainforest. In map terms, the route was Christchurch, Kaikoura and Picton marine reserves, Marlborough Sounds and Abel Tasman, then back down the wild wet west coast to Mount Cook. Ending at Queenstown with a luxury trip walking the Routeburn, and swimming every part of the way.Setting out before Christmas, we stopped first at the dusty seaside town of Kaikoura, a low series of faded pastel buildings, assaulted by a fierce combination of hot sun and icy southerlies.A deep offshore trench there brings whales, seals and birds from the Antarctic, and the town offers truly wild, wild swimming with seals and dolphins \u2013 craft are tightly restricted, and the animals are not fed or induced towards boats. An offshore storm meant boats couldn't take swimmers out during our stay so we watched waves breaking over a hulking grey sperm whale from a plane instead, then took a screaming dip in the sea, the temperature proving that we were not far from the south pole, that we were in the albatross latitudes.Higher up on the southern tip of South Island, locals pointed us to swimming holes whenever asked. Between Marlborough Sounds and Abel Tasman we pulled in at the Trout Hotel before Canvastown, and bumped our way down the Wakamarina track to the Butchers Flat car park, past a sign saying: \"Keep going, it's worth it\", to a series of emerald pools.We spent an afternoon swimming in the deserted gorge, clambering over grey river stones in the cold trout stream, before returning to Pelorus Bridge. Here children hurled themselves into the swimming hole repeatedly, but if you're feeling adventurous you can float down beyond the bridge into the gorge, and around to Totara Flat \u2013 a good 20-minute swim but a five-minute walk back due to the loop in the river.At Abel Tasman we parked at the Old Macdonald Farm holiday park (oldmacs.co.nz) in Marahau, where roses trailed around the van and the day's hikes could be topped and tailed in the on-site swimming holes.After the heat of Abel Tasman, the glory of the west coast was not the glaciers but the weather, and the area was best experienced through fast-moving wipers. We pulled up for the night at Cape Foulwind, which is not whimsically named, and spent a sleepless night in the dark drum of a storm, rain thrumming the roof and the van rocking and swaying. The next morning tidelines were littered with huge, waterlogged trees, washed up by the stormy seas.Then we were in another, golden world \u2013 blinding sun reflected off the Franz Josef glacier, rivers the colour of opals in Haast, the Mackenzie basin, with its scorched cornfields.At Mount John Observatory near Mount Cook, protected from light pollution, we spent an evening gazing through telescopes at belts around Jupiter, the craters of the moon, the galaxy within the Southern Cross (newzealandsky.com/earthandsky).The final stop was the Routeburn (doc.govt.nz), a three-day trek through the soak of a rainforest, and a swim in snowmelt. At night thunder trembled the window of our shelter, with spear grass lit up intermittently by sheet lightning.By now we were drunk on landscapes. River, rock and sky, never wanting to return to the world of the humans.\u2022 For more information on New Zealand and to see more of Kate Rew's videos of her journey, visit the Tourism New Zealand website, newzealand.com/katerewExpedia (0330 123 1235, expedia.co.uk) offers a wide choice of flights and hotels for visitors to New Zealand, including return flights from Gatwick to Auckland from \u00a3924 with Emirates. Maui Motorhomes cost from \u00a388 a day based on a week's hire (maui.co.nz, international toll free: +800 200 80 801). Book before 30 September for 20% discount off the daily rate for a Maui Spirit 4 or Spirit 6 for travel between 1 Oct 2010 and 31 March 2011 (excluding 15 Dec-15 Jan). New bookings only ", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Swimming holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Cetaceans"], "title": "Different strokes \u2013 wild swimming in New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-08-02T07:55:09Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Police in the New Zealand city of Gisborne have decided to stop telling the local newspaper about incidents of crime. It is holding back the data so that \"people feel safer\".Instead of listing every incident the police force will \"streamline information\" to provide \"an overview\" of criminal activity.\"Our daily feed of information to the media does not provide the right recipe for the community in terms of important information they need to know,\" said police commander Sam Aberahama. The response from the Gisborne Herald was a sarcastic article mocking the change of policy, Crime, what crime? Editor Jeremy Muir called the unilateral restriction on crime news as straight out of \"the communist manual\".And the country's leading daily newspaper, the New Zealand Herald, was equally dismissive. In an editorial, Keeping mum on crime won't make it stop, it challenged the notion that what the public doesn't know can't hurt them.\"It is wholly misguided,\" said the article. \"People will feel safer in their homes and on the streets once the crime rate is reduced and the police 'clearance' rate of crime improves with more lawbreakers caught and prosecuted... \"Suppressing the information available to the public is the last refuge of policy failure.\"Sources: New Zealand Herald/Gisborne Herald", "tags": ["Media", "Press freedom", "New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand police to restrict reporting of crime news"},{"date": "2010-09-27T16:30:57Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand plans to tighten controls on foreign land purchases amid fears that the Chinese acquisition of local farms may not be in the country's strategic interests.The new rules were announced today after a fierce public backlash against a Hong Kong-listed firm that attempted to buy New Zealand's biggest private dairy farm.Natural Dairy \u2013 previously known as the China Jin Hui Mining Corporation \u2013 offered to pay NZ$1.5bn for farmland, cattle and milk powder production plants, according to the domestic media.This bid for the Crafer family's farms \u2013 now under review \u2013 has stirred up considerable concern in a country that depends on the dairy industry for almost a quarter of its export earnings.New Zealand's farmers warn that state-backed Chinese investors are taking advantage of the economic downturn to buy land cheaply, so that they are in a strong position for a sharp rise in global population and demand for food. China already feeds a fifth of the world's population on less than a tenth of the planet's arable land.The Federated Farmers of New Zealand say planned Chinese purchases of arable land are unfair because foreign firms are forbidden from acquiring similarly large swathes of farmland in China.Under the new rules, the government will introduce extra tests on overseas investment applications for \"sensitive land\". The buy-ups will have to be judged in relation to the nation's economic interests before approval.Finance minister Bill English said the measures aimed to strike a balance. \"It's important that we welcome beneficial foreign investment and recognise the positive contribution it makes to New Zealand through increased jobs, capital and access to export markets,\" English said. \"At the same time, the government recognises there are genuine public concerns about aspects of certain types of overseas investment.\"The measure, which comes into effect at the end of the year, highlights growing anxiety about cross-border land acquisitions. China is not the only country looking to increase its holdings of arable land overseas. Saudi Arabia, Japan and South Korea are among the other nations bidding for farm property in New Zealand, Australia, Ethiopia and elsewhere.Earlier this year, the Observer reported that the total area being bought up by rich nations was more than double the size of the UK. A recent forecast rise in food prices prompted crisis talks at the United Nations and increased speculation in the commodity and land markets.Those involved in the deals accuse critics of racism and hypocrisy \u2013 not least because much of the land, particularly in Australia and New Zealand, was taken from the original inhabitants by white settlers.Bill Ralston, a spokesman for Natural Dairy, said that his firm's bid was being unfairly treated because it was Chinese. \"In the last three years, 13 different applications to acquire land have been approved in New Zealand mainly from Europe, Australia, the US and Russia \u2013 something like $380m of acquisitions, and not a dickey bird!\" he told the local media. \"The sudden prominence of Chinese investments and the paranoia has set in.\"To order Jonathan Watts' eco-travelogue, When A Billion Chinese Jump, for \u00a39.99 (RRP \u00a314.99) call 0330 333 6846 in the UK or visit guardianbooks.co.uk", "tags": ["Food", "Farming", "Environment", "New Zealand", "China", "World news", "Business", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand puts squeeze on foreign farmland purchasing"},{"date": "2010-09-04T15:19:16Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand police have imposed an overnight curfew in Christchurch following the powerful 7.1 magnitude earthquake that struck the country's South Island last night.Police said the curfew was intended to protect the city's 400,000 people from falling debris, as the quake caused widespread damage to buildings, although there were few injuries reported.City mayor Bob Parker declared a state of emergency four hours after the quake struck the east coast of the island region at 4.35am, warning that continuing aftershocks could cause masonry to fall from damaged buildings.\"We're all feeling scared, we've just had some significant aftershocks,\" he told TV One News. \"Tonight we're just people in the face of a massive natural disaster, trying to help each other ... and we're grateful we haven't lost a life.\"There were reports of some people trapped inside damaged buildings, although none appeared to be seriously injured.Police Inspector Alf Stewart told New Zealand's National Radio that some people had been arrested for looting. \"We have some reports of people smashing [shop] windows and trying to grab some property that is not theirs \u2026 we've got police on the streets and we're dealing with that,\" he said.Up to 90 extra police officers are flying to Christchurch to help, and troops are likely to join the recovery effort on Monday.The prime minister, John Key, who flew to Christchurch to inspect the damage, said it was \"an absolute miracle\" that no one died in the quake which blocked roads with debris, cut off power across the region and disrupted gas and water supplies.Key said initial assessments suggested it could cost at least 2bn New Zealand dollars (\u00a30.93bn) to repair the damage caused by the quake. Civil defence minister John Carter added there was \"a lot of damage\" to the region's key infrastructure.Christchurch Hospital said it had treated two men with serious injuries and a number of people with minor injuries.One man was hit by a falling chimney and was in a serious condition, while a second was badly cut by glass, a spokeswoman said.Mark O'Connell said his house was full of smashed glass, with food tossed from shelves and sets of drawers, TVs and computers tipped over.\"We were thrown from wall to wall as we tried to escape down the stairs to get to safety,\" he said.State geological agency GNS Science said the epicentre of the quake was 19 miles (30km) west of Christchurch. It reported 29 aftershocks in the 14 hours following the quake, ranging in strength from magnitude 3.7 to 5.4.Sheep farmer Paul Cowie, from the town of Darfield near the quake's epicentre, said his family was knocked to the floor.\"We couldn't stand up, but we had to run across the house to get to the kids ... and they were shaken up,\" he said. The family fled the house and huddled in a car parked in an open field.Emergency shelters have been set up at schools in suburban areas to house those forced out of their homes, a civil defence spokesman said.People in Christchurch's eastern suburbs were told to be ready to evacuate after electricity, gas, sewage and water systems were cut by the quake.Residents have been asked not to flush toilets because of potential damage to the city's sewerage system which could lead to contamination. Christchurch airport was also closed as a precaution while runways were safety checked.Despite tsunami fears by residents, the Pacific Tsunami Warning Centre said \"no destructive widespread tsunami threat existed, based on historical earthquake and tsunami data\".New Zealand lies above an area of the Earth's crust where two tectonic plates collide and the country records more than 14,000 earthquakes a year \u2013 but only about 150 are usually felt. Schoolchildren in the country regularly undertake earthquake drills.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Christchurch"], "title": "New Zealand earthquake: Curfew imposed by Christchurch police"},{"date": "2010-11-22T11:12:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Police in New Zealand have acknowledged for the first time that they were preparing for \"loss of life\", as a borehole into the mine where 29 men are trapped neared completion this morning.Authorities are expected to finish drilling the 15cm-wide shaft into the mine tunnel today, providing a better idea of the air quality inside the area where miners were believed trapped by Friday's blast.Two Britons, Pete Rodger, 40, from Perthshire and Malcolm Campbell, 25, from Fife, are among those trapped in the Pike river mine in Greymouth on the South Island after the explosion, which is believed to have been caused by a methane gas leak.\"We still remain optimistic; we're still keeping an open mind,\" said police superintendent Gary Knowles. \"But we are planning for all outcomes, and as part of this process we're planning for the possible loss of life as a result of what's occurred underground.\"Two workers stumbled out of the Pike river mine within hours of the explosion on Friday, but there has been no contact with the missing 29. A phone line deep inside the mine has rung unanswered for days.The New Zealand Herald reported this morning that 135 metres (443 ft) of the 162-metre (532 ft) tunnel to the mine has been completed, however tests every 30 minutes on accessible areas continued to indicate the air was too toxic for rescuers to enter.The army are at the mine site fitting a robot usually used for bomb disposal with a camera and up to 1.5 miles of fibre optic cable, so it could be sent into the tunnel to check conditions and film the area.The battery-operated robot works only in fresh air, so cannot be sent into the mine until the air clears. Methane and other toxic gases \u2013 some believed to be coming from a smouldering fire deep underground \u2013 have been detected in the network of tunnels that threads through a mountain, and officials fear another explosion could occur if rescuers enter.Checks are also under way to make sure the robot would not cause a spark or anything else that could ignite flammable gases inside.Police have said the miners, aged between 17 and 62, are believed to be about 1.2 miles down the tunnel. Although Knowles said rescuers were preparing for all eventualities, the prime minister, John Key, said there was \"every chance\" the 24 New Zealanders, two Australians, two Britons and one South African were still alive.\"The advice I have is that there is oxygen in the mine and there is every chance that those miners have managed to get to a pocket of that oxygen flow and therefore that they are alive,\" he said.Key added that although these were \"testing and difficult times\", it was imperative the rescue team acted \"in a way that doesn't endanger their [the miners'] lives\".Each miner carried 30 minutes-worth of oxygen, and more fresh air was stored in the mine, along with food and water that could allow several days of survival, officials said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Mining", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand mine rescuers prepare for deaths"},{"date": "2010-11-22T11:12:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Police in New Zealand have acknowledged for the first time that they were preparing for \"loss of life\", as a borehole into the mine where 29 men are trapped neared completion this morning.Authorities are expected to finish drilling the 15cm-wide shaft into the mine tunnel today, providing a better idea of the air quality inside the area where miners were believed trapped by Friday's blast.Two Britons, Pete Rodger, 40, from Perthshire and Malcolm Campbell, 25, from Fife, are among those trapped in the Pike river mine in Greymouth on the South Island after the explosion, which is believed to have been caused by a methane gas leak.\"We still remain optimistic; we're still keeping an open mind,\" said police superintendent Gary Knowles. \"But we are planning for all outcomes, and as part of this process we're planning for the possible loss of life as a result of what's occurred underground.\"Two workers stumbled out of the Pike river mine within hours of the explosion on Friday, but there has been no contact with the missing 29. A phone line deep inside the mine has rung unanswered for days.The New Zealand Herald reported this morning that 135 metres (443 ft) of the 162-metre (532 ft) tunnel to the mine has been completed, however tests every 30 minutes on accessible areas continued to indicate the air was too toxic for rescuers to enter.The army are at the mine site fitting a robot usually used for bomb disposal with a camera and up to 1.5 miles of fibre optic cable, so it could be sent into the tunnel to check conditions and film the area.The battery-operated robot works only in fresh air, so cannot be sent into the mine until the air clears. Methane and other toxic gases \u2013 some believed to be coming from a smouldering fire deep underground \u2013 have been detected in the network of tunnels that threads through a mountain, and officials fear another explosion could occur if rescuers enter.Checks are also under way to make sure the robot would not cause a spark or anything else that could ignite flammable gases inside.Police have said the miners, aged between 17 and 62, are believed to be about 1.2 miles down the tunnel. Although Knowles said rescuers were preparing for all eventualities, the prime minister, John Key, said there was \"every chance\" the 24 New Zealanders, two Australians, two Britons and one South African were still alive.\"The advice I have is that there is oxygen in the mine and there is every chance that those miners have managed to get to a pocket of that oxygen flow and therefore that they are alive,\" he said.Key added that although these were \"testing and difficult times\", it was imperative the rescue team acted \"in a way that doesn't endanger their [the miners'] lives\".Each miner carried 30 minutes-worth of oxygen, and more fresh air was stored in the mine, along with food and water that could allow several days of survival, officials said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Mining", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand mine rescuers prepare for deaths"},{"date": "2010-10-27T09:16:52Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "In The Hobbit, JRR Tolkien's much-loved fantasy tale, a group of adventurers sets out to retrieve a long-lost treasure trove from a cunning dragon. Earlier today, the New Zealand film industry was celebrating the restoration of its own financial fortunes after it was confirmed that the forthcoming big-screen adaptations will be shot in the country after all.Prime Minister John Key emerged from two days of talks with executives from Hollywood studio Warner Bros \u2013 who had flown all the way to Wellington to reassure themselves that a row over pay and conditions with a local union was not a sign that New Zealand was becoming an \"unstable\" location \u2013 to confirm that The Hobbit film would be brought to life in the same location as The Lord of the Rings.\"I am delighted we have achieved this result,\" Key said. \"Making the movies here will not only safeguard work for thousands of New Zealanders, but will also allow us to follow the success of The Lord of the Rings.\"The successful talks followed street protests across New Zealand on Monday by thousands concerned the country could lose out on a production whose predecessors made it seem a viable location for big-budget films. There was no indication of whether ministers had been forced to offer financial incentives to assuage Hollywood fears, though Key had earlier indicated this was unlikely to occur. He did, however, raise the possibility of changing union laws to ensure the row between film-maker Peter Jackson and the New Zealand Actors' Equity union, which almost caused the country to lose the films, was unlikely to be repeated.Economists had said the loss of the production could cost the country's film industry as much as $1.5bn and damage it in the long term, though many felt a move to a new site was unlikely given that sets for key locations such as Hobbiton remained in New Zealand. The union boycott \u2013 backed by bodies across the globe \u2013 was resolved last week, but producers were talking up the possibility of moving the production to the UK, Australia, Canada or eastern Europe as late as Thursday.Jackson will return to direct the new films, with The Office star Martin Freeman set to portray the title character, Bilbo Baggins \u2013 a homely Hobbit who in Tolkien's tale is bamboozled into joining a thrilling adventure by a wizard named Gandalf. Richard Armitage, of BBC TV series Spooks, will play the role of Thorin Oakenshield, the leader of the dwarves.Filming on the two-part adaptation is due to start in February, with releases pencilled in for December 2012 and December 2013.", "tags": ["Lord of the Rings", "Peter Jackson", "Action and adventure", "Science fiction and fantasy", "Film", "Culture", "The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey"], "title": "The Hobbit will stay in New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-11-22T11:12:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Police in New Zealand have acknowledged for the first time that they were preparing for \"loss of life\", as a borehole into the mine where 29 men are trapped neared completion this morning.Authorities are expected to finish drilling the 15cm-wide shaft into the mine tunnel today, providing a better idea of the air quality inside the area where miners were believed trapped by Friday's blast.Two Britons, Pete Rodger, 40, from Perthshire and Malcolm Campbell, 25, from Fife, are among those trapped in the Pike river mine in Greymouth on the South Island after the explosion, which is believed to have been caused by a methane gas leak.\"We still remain optimistic; we're still keeping an open mind,\" said police superintendent Gary Knowles. \"But we are planning for all outcomes, and as part of this process we're planning for the possible loss of life as a result of what's occurred underground.\"Two workers stumbled out of the Pike river mine within hours of the explosion on Friday, but there has been no contact with the missing 29. A phone line deep inside the mine has rung unanswered for days.The New Zealand Herald reported this morning that 135 metres (443 ft) of the 162-metre (532 ft) tunnel to the mine has been completed, however tests every 30 minutes on accessible areas continued to indicate the air was too toxic for rescuers to enter.The army are at the mine site fitting a robot usually used for bomb disposal with a camera and up to 1.5 miles of fibre optic cable, so it could be sent into the tunnel to check conditions and film the area.The battery-operated robot works only in fresh air, so cannot be sent into the mine until the air clears. Methane and other toxic gases \u2013 some believed to be coming from a smouldering fire deep underground \u2013 have been detected in the network of tunnels that threads through a mountain, and officials fear another explosion could occur if rescuers enter.Checks are also under way to make sure the robot would not cause a spark or anything else that could ignite flammable gases inside.Police have said the miners, aged between 17 and 62, are believed to be about 1.2 miles down the tunnel. Although Knowles said rescuers were preparing for all eventualities, the prime minister, John Key, said there was \"every chance\" the 24 New Zealanders, two Australians, two Britons and one South African were still alive.\"The advice I have is that there is oxygen in the mine and there is every chance that those miners have managed to get to a pocket of that oxygen flow and therefore that they are alive,\" he said.Key added that although these were \"testing and difficult times\", it was imperative the rescue team acted \"in a way that doesn't endanger their [the miners'] lives\".Each miner carried 30 minutes-worth of oxygen, and more fresh air was stored in the mine, along with food and water that could allow several days of survival, officials said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Mining", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand mine rescuers prepare for deaths"},{"date": "2010-10-27T09:16:52Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "In The Hobbit, JRR Tolkien's much-loved fantasy tale, a group of adventurers sets out to retrieve a long-lost treasure trove from a cunning dragon. Earlier today, the New Zealand film industry was celebrating the restoration of its own financial fortunes after it was confirmed that the forthcoming big-screen adaptations will be shot in the country after all.Prime Minister John Key emerged from two days of talks with executives from Hollywood studio Warner Bros \u2013 who had flown all the way to Wellington to reassure themselves that a row over pay and conditions with a local union was not a sign that New Zealand was becoming an \"unstable\" location \u2013 to confirm that The Hobbit film would be brought to life in the same location as The Lord of the Rings.\"I am delighted we have achieved this result,\" Key said. \"Making the movies here will not only safeguard work for thousands of New Zealanders, but will also allow us to follow the success of The Lord of the Rings.\"The successful talks followed street protests across New Zealand on Monday by thousands concerned the country could lose out on a production whose predecessors made it seem a viable location for big-budget films. There was no indication of whether ministers had been forced to offer financial incentives to assuage Hollywood fears, though Key had earlier indicated this was unlikely to occur. He did, however, raise the possibility of changing union laws to ensure the row between film-maker Peter Jackson and the New Zealand Actors' Equity union, which almost caused the country to lose the films, was unlikely to be repeated.Economists had said the loss of the production could cost the country's film industry as much as $1.5bn and damage it in the long term, though many felt a move to a new site was unlikely given that sets for key locations such as Hobbiton remained in New Zealand. The union boycott \u2013 backed by bodies across the globe \u2013 was resolved last week, but producers were talking up the possibility of moving the production to the UK, Australia, Canada or eastern Europe as late as Thursday.Jackson will return to direct the new films, with The Office star Martin Freeman set to portray the title character, Bilbo Baggins \u2013 a homely Hobbit who in Tolkien's tale is bamboozled into joining a thrilling adventure by a wizard named Gandalf. Richard Armitage, of BBC TV series Spooks, will play the role of Thorin Oakenshield, the leader of the dwarves.Filming on the two-part adaptation is due to start in February, with releases pencilled in for December 2012 and December 2013.", "tags": ["Lord of the Rings", "Peter Jackson", "Action and adventure", "Science fiction and fantasy", "Film", "Culture", "The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey"], "title": "The Hobbit will stay in New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-12-21T21:30:08Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Monday, 19 July 2004, 06:17C O N F I D E N T I A L WELLINGTON 000611 SIPDIS DEPT FOR EAP/ANP EO 12958 DECL: 07/18/2014 TAGS PGOV, PREL, PINR, NZ SUBJECT: NEW ZEALAND PRAISED BY ISLAMIC RESISTANCE MOVEMENT HAMAS FOR RESPONSE TO ISRAELI SPY SCANDALREF: A. WELLINGTON 605 B. WELLINGTON 599Classified By: POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC COUNSELOR, TIMOTHY ZUNIGA-BROWN, FOR REASONS 1.5(B,D)1. (U) According to media reports, the Palestinian terrorist organization Hamas issued a press release July 17 thanking the GoNZ for Prime Minister Helen Clark's strong response to the conviction of two suspected Israeli intelligence agents (ref a). The press release urged other countries to follow the model set by New Zealand in \"adopting firm measures against the Zionist entity's violations of laws on foreign lands to achieve certain targets.\"2. (U) The GNZ has been quick to renounce any sympathy for Hamas. PM Clark noted that Hamas should not take comfort from the GoNZ's actions, and if Hamas agents had committed the same crimes, they would be subject to the same prosecution. Domestic media reported separately that a religious terrorism professor at Auckland University suggested that NZ's position offers New Zealand military serving in Iraq \"protection.\"3. (C) Comment: New Zealand continues to voice its strong support of the Roadmap, but is loathe to take actions that would identify it as a supporter of Israel and, by proxy, the United States. The GoNZ prides itself on its multi-lateral credentials (ref B) but has been increasingly trying to stand alongside \"Non-Aligned\" countries. Its overly strong reaction to Israel over this issue suggests the GNZ sees this flap as an opportunity to bolster its credibility with the Arab community, and by doing so, perhaps, help NZ lamb and other products gain greater access to a larger and more lucrative market. Swindells", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Israel", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Hamas", "The US embassy cables", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "US embassy cables: New Zealand uncomfortable with Hamas praise"},{"date": "2010-11-22T11:12:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Police in New Zealand have acknowledged for the first time that they were preparing for \"loss of life\", as a borehole into the mine where 29 men are trapped neared completion this morning.Authorities are expected to finish drilling the 15cm-wide shaft into the mine tunnel today, providing a better idea of the air quality inside the area where miners were believed trapped by Friday's blast.Two Britons, Pete Rodger, 40, from Perthshire and Malcolm Campbell, 25, from Fife, are among those trapped in the Pike river mine in Greymouth on the South Island after the explosion, which is believed to have been caused by a methane gas leak.\"We still remain optimistic; we're still keeping an open mind,\" said police superintendent Gary Knowles. \"But we are planning for all outcomes, and as part of this process we're planning for the possible loss of life as a result of what's occurred underground.\"Two workers stumbled out of the Pike river mine within hours of the explosion on Friday, but there has been no contact with the missing 29. A phone line deep inside the mine has rung unanswered for days.The New Zealand Herald reported this morning that 135 metres (443 ft) of the 162-metre (532 ft) tunnel to the mine has been completed, however tests every 30 minutes on accessible areas continued to indicate the air was too toxic for rescuers to enter.The army are at the mine site fitting a robot usually used for bomb disposal with a camera and up to 1.5 miles of fibre optic cable, so it could be sent into the tunnel to check conditions and film the area.The battery-operated robot works only in fresh air, so cannot be sent into the mine until the air clears. Methane and other toxic gases \u2013 some believed to be coming from a smouldering fire deep underground \u2013 have been detected in the network of tunnels that threads through a mountain, and officials fear another explosion could occur if rescuers enter.Checks are also under way to make sure the robot would not cause a spark or anything else that could ignite flammable gases inside.Police have said the miners, aged between 17 and 62, are believed to be about 1.2 miles down the tunnel. Although Knowles said rescuers were preparing for all eventualities, the prime minister, John Key, said there was \"every chance\" the 24 New Zealanders, two Australians, two Britons and one South African were still alive.\"The advice I have is that there is oxygen in the mine and there is every chance that those miners have managed to get to a pocket of that oxygen flow and therefore that they are alive,\" he said.Key added that although these were \"testing and difficult times\", it was imperative the rescue team acted \"in a way that doesn't endanger their [the miners'] lives\".Each miner carried 30 minutes-worth of oxygen, and more fresh air was stored in the mine, along with food and water that could allow several days of survival, officials said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Mining", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand mine rescuers prepare for deaths"},{"date": "2010-10-27T09:16:52Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "In The Hobbit, JRR Tolkien's much-loved fantasy tale, a group of adventurers sets out to retrieve a long-lost treasure trove from a cunning dragon. Earlier today, the New Zealand film industry was celebrating the restoration of its own financial fortunes after it was confirmed that the forthcoming big-screen adaptations will be shot in the country after all.Prime Minister John Key emerged from two days of talks with executives from Hollywood studio Warner Bros \u2013 who had flown all the way to Wellington to reassure themselves that a row over pay and conditions with a local union was not a sign that New Zealand was becoming an \"unstable\" location \u2013 to confirm that The Hobbit film would be brought to life in the same location as The Lord of the Rings.\"I am delighted we have achieved this result,\" Key said. \"Making the movies here will not only safeguard work for thousands of New Zealanders, but will also allow us to follow the success of The Lord of the Rings.\"The successful talks followed street protests across New Zealand on Monday by thousands concerned the country could lose out on a production whose predecessors made it seem a viable location for big-budget films. There was no indication of whether ministers had been forced to offer financial incentives to assuage Hollywood fears, though Key had earlier indicated this was unlikely to occur. He did, however, raise the possibility of changing union laws to ensure the row between film-maker Peter Jackson and the New Zealand Actors' Equity union, which almost caused the country to lose the films, was unlikely to be repeated.Economists had said the loss of the production could cost the country's film industry as much as $1.5bn and damage it in the long term, though many felt a move to a new site was unlikely given that sets for key locations such as Hobbiton remained in New Zealand. The union boycott \u2013 backed by bodies across the globe \u2013 was resolved last week, but producers were talking up the possibility of moving the production to the UK, Australia, Canada or eastern Europe as late as Thursday.Jackson will return to direct the new films, with The Office star Martin Freeman set to portray the title character, Bilbo Baggins \u2013 a homely Hobbit who in Tolkien's tale is bamboozled into joining a thrilling adventure by a wizard named Gandalf. Richard Armitage, of BBC TV series Spooks, will play the role of Thorin Oakenshield, the leader of the dwarves.Filming on the two-part adaptation is due to start in February, with releases pencilled in for December 2012 and December 2013.", "tags": ["Lord of the Rings", "Peter Jackson", "Action and adventure", "Science fiction and fantasy", "Film", "Culture", "The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey"], "title": "The Hobbit will stay in New Zealand"},{"date": "2010-12-21T21:30:08Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Monday, 19 July 2004, 06:17C O N F I D E N T I A L WELLINGTON 000611 SIPDIS DEPT FOR EAP/ANP EO 12958 DECL: 07/18/2014 TAGS PGOV, PREL, PINR, NZ SUBJECT: NEW ZEALAND PRAISED BY ISLAMIC RESISTANCE MOVEMENT HAMAS FOR RESPONSE TO ISRAELI SPY SCANDALREF: A. WELLINGTON 605 B. WELLINGTON 599Classified By: POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC COUNSELOR, TIMOTHY ZUNIGA-BROWN, FOR REASONS 1.5(B,D)1. (U) According to media reports, the Palestinian terrorist organization Hamas issued a press release July 17 thanking the GoNZ for Prime Minister Helen Clark's strong response to the conviction of two suspected Israeli intelligence agents (ref a). The press release urged other countries to follow the model set by New Zealand in \"adopting firm measures against the Zionist entity's violations of laws on foreign lands to achieve certain targets.\"2. (U) The GNZ has been quick to renounce any sympathy for Hamas. PM Clark noted that Hamas should not take comfort from the GoNZ's actions, and if Hamas agents had committed the same crimes, they would be subject to the same prosecution. Domestic media reported separately that a religious terrorism professor at Auckland University suggested that NZ's position offers New Zealand military serving in Iraq \"protection.\"3. (C) Comment: New Zealand continues to voice its strong support of the Roadmap, but is loathe to take actions that would identify it as a supporter of Israel and, by proxy, the United States. The GoNZ prides itself on its multi-lateral credentials (ref B) but has been increasingly trying to stand alongside \"Non-Aligned\" countries. Its overly strong reaction to Israel over this issue suggests the GNZ sees this flap as an opportunity to bolster its credibility with the Arab community, and by doing so, perhaps, help NZ lamb and other products gain greater access to a larger and more lucrative market. Swindells", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Israel", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Hamas", "The US embassy cables", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "US embassy cables: New Zealand uncomfortable with Hamas praise"},{"date": "2010-11-24T18:04:25Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "For five days, a wave of grief had been held at bay in the small mining communities around Greymouth. Against the dictates of reason and the realities of fire and gas, hope was all the relatives and friends of the 29 missing miners had. Then, in one raw moment this afternoon, all hope was dashed.A second explosion at Pike River mine, bigger than the first, ripped through the mine as rescue teams were in full gear and ready to begin searching. Perhaps the 29 men were already dead; certainly, it is believed they are now. At 2.37pm, when the Pike River chief executive, Peter Whittall, was at the mine, smoke started spewing from the main shaft.\"In my subjective opinion it was larger and stronger and lasted longer, and it was not what I wanted to see,\" he said.News travels fast in small communities but at 4pm the families and relatives of the 29 walked into the afternoon briefing in a Greymouth hall unaware of the new explosion. The briefing began as these briefings had for days, with technical talk of boreholes and robots.\"It got started as normal and there was quite a lot of optimism because of the fact the robots were getting down there,\" said the mayor of Grey District, Tony Kokshoorn. Then, when Whittall told the miners' relatives that a team had been getting ready to go underground the families applauded, thinking that a rescue was about to start.\"I had to wait till they stopped clapping to tell them \u2026 that the second explosion occurred,\" he said afterwards.He told the families: \"There was an enormous explosion, there's no way anyone could have survived it.''Anger rose up quickly. The police, who some believed had frustrated rescue efforts with an overcautious approach, were the first target.But love and comfort won out. \"We just started consoling each other. But there were some distraught people,\" said Kokshoorn. \"This is the west coast's darkest hour, I'm telling you. It doesn't get worse than this. It's just devastation. They don't know what to do. They just sobbed openly and just fell to the floor.\"Police superintendent Gary Knowles witnessed both explosions. \"I was at the mine myself when this occurred and the blast was horrific,\" he said. \"I had to break the news to the families and they are extremely distraught. This is one of the most tragic things I have had to do as a police officer.\"For five days, families and relatives had formed a stern and sombre parade in front of the media on their way into and out of daily briefings. They went in sombre again today but left weeping and heartbroken. \"It's just blown up. That's it, they're all dead. It blew up again,\" said Lawrie Drew, father of Zen, 21.He was one of several relatives whose frustration had boiled over with the pace of the rescue process.Mining folklore says the moments after an explosion are the safest time to enter a mine, but with no teams allowed in, a robot was put down the tunnel and promptly broke down when water dripped from the mine roof. With the hours ticking by, a search began for another robot. Safety was paramount.But not all feel that way. Neville Rockhouse had borne more suffering this week than any man should have to. The mine's safety and training manager, he had two sons down the mine.Daniel Rockhouse, 24, was one of only two men to survive the first blast. After that miraculous escape came the news that night that Neville's father had died from a heart attack. Then yesterday, more grief: Ben, 21, was not coming home.Rockhouse was the first man to reach Whittall after the news was announced. \"He gave me a big hug and said: 'We did everything we could,'\" the mine manager revealed. Some will still cling to hope and perhaps recalculate the chances of an even bigger miracle of survival. Whittall refused to rule it out, even as the focus switched to recovering bodies.\"My team are going to have to start assessing tonight: what next?\" he said. \"What do we do with the mine?\"Regardless of what's happened, if the men are no longer alive, which is most likely, I still want them back and the families want them back, and we'll be doing everything we can to make that happen.\"But a further explosion is possible, and Prime Minister John Key has warned it could take time to recover the bodies. The mine is still not safe: methane is still being released and the fires burn on.David Bell, an expert in engineering and mining geology at the University of Canterbury, New Zealand, said methane levels had made a second explosion \"almost inevitable''.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand miners believed dead after second blast underground"},{"date": "2011-03-01T01:59:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Christchurch has begun burying those killed in last week's earthquake as the New Zealand prime minister announces an emergency funding package to support the devastated community.The official death toll from the quake rose to 154 on Tuesday, with grave fears for about 50 people who are unaccounted for.Among the dead or missing are dozens of foreign students, mostly Japanese and Chinese, from an international language school inside an office building that collapsed with up to 120 people inside. Up to 22 other people may be buried in rubble at Christchurch cathedral, most of them believed to be tourists climbing the bell tower for its panoramic views of the southern New Zealand city. Four victims are believed to be British.Police Superintendent Dave Cliff said a substantial number of people were still missing a week after the disaster, and that the total number of those killed could end up being much higher.\"I think we need to start considering that the figure of around 240 [is] not locked in stone because we are still getting information which is taking people off the list and sometimes adding others on,\" Cliff told reporters.The first of many funerals for victims was held on Monday for Baxtor Gowland, who was five months old. More than 200 friends and family attended the service for the baby, who was born a fortnight after Christchurch suffered its first major earthquake on 4 September. He is thought to be the youngest victim.John Key, the PM, has vowed that Christchurch will be rebuilt to building standards that can withstand major earthquakes. Many of the buildings that collapsed or were badly damaged were built before New Zealand upgraded building rules in the 1970s to guard against quake damage.The emergency finance package announced by Key was expected to cost more than NZ$100m (\u00a347m). It comprises a wage subsidy to businesses of NZ$500 a week for each employee, together with job loss compensation of NZ$400 a week to any worker whose employer's business has become unviable. Covering the next six weeks, the package was \"just the first part of the long haul to get the city back on its feet\", Key said. He pledged continuing state support.\"It is designed to immediately put money into peoples' pockets and give them some confidence,\" he said.Engineers and planners said the central city may be unusable for months to come and that at least a third of the buildings may have to be razed. The government has said that virtually all services in the area will have to operate from elsewhere during the rebuilding period.\"It's quite clear that a lot of buildings are going to have to come out of the business district, so where a building is condemned it will need to be taken down,\" Key said.The fund will not be open to businesses with head offices outside Christchurch, or which are government-owned. An estimated 42,000 people are expected to qualify for assistance.Key said rebuilding could take between five and 10 years and would cost between NZ$10bn and NZ$15bn.A bill that size would amount to between 5% and 8% of New Zealand's gross domestic product. It would be a drain on the economy of at least five times that felt on the US economy after hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans in 2005, and \"probably closer to eight times\", Chris Green, an analyst at First NZ Capital, told the National Business Review.The former New Zealand prime minister Helen Clark, now head of the UN development programme, said the damage to Christchurch was as bad as that seen in Haiti last year. Clark, visiting in a personal capacity, said: \"This is a city where the life has been squeezed out of it ... So many people no longer with us. Grieving families. People with terrible injuries. Livelihoods destroyed.\"A two-minute silence will take place across the country at 12.51pm on Tuesday, a week after the earthquake struck. A vigil for London-based New Zealanders is to be held at Westminster cathedral on Wednesday evening.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Christchurch"], "title": "New Zealand buries earthquake victims"},{"date": "2011-03-01T01:59:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Christchurch has begun burying those killed in last week's earthquake as the New Zealand prime minister announces an emergency funding package to support the devastated community.The official death toll from the quake rose to 154 on Tuesday, with grave fears for about 50 people who are unaccounted for.Among the dead or missing are dozens of foreign students, mostly Japanese and Chinese, from an international language school inside an office building that collapsed with up to 120 people inside. Up to 22 other people may be buried in rubble at Christchurch cathedral, most of them believed to be tourists climbing the bell tower for its panoramic views of the southern New Zealand city. Four victims are believed to be British.Police Superintendent Dave Cliff said a substantial number of people were still missing a week after the disaster, and that the total number of those killed could end up being much higher.\"I think we need to start considering that the figure of around 240 [is] not locked in stone because we are still getting information which is taking people off the list and sometimes adding others on,\" Cliff told reporters.The first of many funerals for victims was held on Monday for Baxtor Gowland, who was five months old. More than 200 friends and family attended the service for the baby, who was born a fortnight after Christchurch suffered its first major earthquake on 4 September. He is thought to be the youngest victim.John Key, the PM, has vowed that Christchurch will be rebuilt to building standards that can withstand major earthquakes. Many of the buildings that collapsed or were badly damaged were built before New Zealand upgraded building rules in the 1970s to guard against quake damage.The emergency finance package announced by Key was expected to cost more than NZ$100m (\u00a347m). It comprises a wage subsidy to businesses of NZ$500 a week for each employee, together with job loss compensation of NZ$400 a week to any worker whose employer's business has become unviable. Covering the next six weeks, the package was \"just the first part of the long haul to get the city back on its feet\", Key said. He pledged continuing state support.\"It is designed to immediately put money into peoples' pockets and give them some confidence,\" he said.Engineers and planners said the central city may be unusable for months to come and that at least a third of the buildings may have to be razed. The government has said that virtually all services in the area will have to operate from elsewhere during the rebuilding period.\"It's quite clear that a lot of buildings are going to have to come out of the business district, so where a building is condemned it will need to be taken down,\" Key said.The fund will not be open to businesses with head offices outside Christchurch, or which are government-owned. An estimated 42,000 people are expected to qualify for assistance.Key said rebuilding could take between five and 10 years and would cost between NZ$10bn and NZ$15bn.A bill that size would amount to between 5% and 8% of New Zealand's gross domestic product. It would be a drain on the economy of at least five times that felt on the US economy after hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans in 2005, and \"probably closer to eight times\", Chris Green, an analyst at First NZ Capital, told the National Business Review.The former New Zealand prime minister Helen Clark, now head of the UN development programme, said the damage to Christchurch was as bad as that seen in Haiti last year. Clark, visiting in a personal capacity, said: \"This is a city where the life has been squeezed out of it ... So many people no longer with us. Grieving families. People with terrible injuries. Livelihoods destroyed.\"A two-minute silence will take place across the country at 12.51pm on Tuesday, a week after the earthquake struck. A vigil for London-based New Zealanders is to be held at Westminster cathedral on Wednesday evening.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Christchurch"], "title": "New Zealand buries earthquake victims"},{"date": "2011-03-01T14:55:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A 4.5-magnitude earthquake was felt by thousands of people in New Zealand as the country held a day of mourning for the 159 confirmed victims and many more missing since last week's quake in Christchurch.This time the earthquake, about 25 miles underground, was felt 12 miles north-west of Wellington. There were no reports of damage after the jolt, just after 10pm local time (09.00 GMT), but the New Zealand Herald reported that houses shook and it felt like the shockwave after the Christchurch quake.Earlier, church bells rang across the country, flags flew at half-mast, and rescue crews in Christchurch switched off jackhammers to join the two-minute silence at 12.51pm, a week after the disaster. Across the city and in many other towns, people gathered, remembering the moments that left the city centre in ruins.\"We are going to come through this, and we are going to rebuild Christchurch,\" said the prime minister, John Key, who grew up in the city. He marked the silence at an art gallery, now used for the rescue operation.Traffic stopped by the Knox church and historic Carlton hotel, both ruined in the earthquake.\"I've lived here all my life \u2026 it's my home and it hurts so much to see it in this way,\" said Mike Cochrane, a resident.The government plans an inquiry into the collapse of some buildings in the city, which were cleared as safe after another quake in September. Police believe at least 240 people died. So far 159 bodies have been recovered, and eight formally identified.The funeral, on Monday, of five-month-old Baxtor Gowland, was followed by that of Jaime Gilbert, 22, a barman and father of two, who was crushed by rubble. At the funeral his family thanked his colleagues who dug to try to save him.Amid clearance work in the grounds of Christchurch cathedral, two time capsules \u2013 a glass bottle and metal container \u2013 were recovered from the plinth of the damaged Victorian statue of the city's founder, John Robert Godley, and handed to the city's museum.Christchurch residents were warned to stay clear of beaches, now contaminated by sewage. Chlorination of water supplies has begun and shower blocks, providing hot water, have been set up in old shipping containers.An estimated NZ$14m (\u00a36.4m) has poured into the relief fund. The government has a NZ$120m emergency package.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "New Zealand hit by further earthquake"},{"date": "2011-03-01T01:59:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Christchurch has begun burying those killed in last week's earthquake as the New Zealand prime minister announces an emergency funding package to support the devastated community.The official death toll from the quake rose to 154 on Tuesday, with grave fears for about 50 people who are unaccounted for.Among the dead or missing are dozens of foreign students, mostly Japanese and Chinese, from an international language school inside an office building that collapsed with up to 120 people inside. Up to 22 other people may be buried in rubble at Christchurch cathedral, most of them believed to be tourists climbing the bell tower for its panoramic views of the southern New Zealand city. Four victims are believed to be British.Police Superintendent Dave Cliff said a substantial number of people were still missing a week after the disaster, and that the total number of those killed could end up being much higher.\"I think we need to start considering that the figure of around 240 [is] not locked in stone because we are still getting information which is taking people off the list and sometimes adding others on,\" Cliff told reporters.The first of many funerals for victims was held on Monday for Baxtor Gowland, who was five months old. More than 200 friends and family attended the service for the baby, who was born a fortnight after Christchurch suffered its first major earthquake on 4 September. He is thought to be the youngest victim.John Key, the PM, has vowed that Christchurch will be rebuilt to building standards that can withstand major earthquakes. Many of the buildings that collapsed or were badly damaged were built before New Zealand upgraded building rules in the 1970s to guard against quake damage.The emergency finance package announced by Key was expected to cost more than NZ$100m (\u00a347m). It comprises a wage subsidy to businesses of NZ$500 a week for each employee, together with job loss compensation of NZ$400 a week to any worker whose employer's business has become unviable. Covering the next six weeks, the package was \"just the first part of the long haul to get the city back on its feet\", Key said. He pledged continuing state support.\"It is designed to immediately put money into peoples' pockets and give them some confidence,\" he said.Engineers and planners said the central city may be unusable for months to come and that at least a third of the buildings may have to be razed. The government has said that virtually all services in the area will have to operate from elsewhere during the rebuilding period.\"It's quite clear that a lot of buildings are going to have to come out of the business district, so where a building is condemned it will need to be taken down,\" Key said.The fund will not be open to businesses with head offices outside Christchurch, or which are government-owned. An estimated 42,000 people are expected to qualify for assistance.Key said rebuilding could take between five and 10 years and would cost between NZ$10bn and NZ$15bn.A bill that size would amount to between 5% and 8% of New Zealand's gross domestic product. It would be a drain on the economy of at least five times that felt on the US economy after hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans in 2005, and \"probably closer to eight times\", Chris Green, an analyst at First NZ Capital, told the National Business Review.The former New Zealand prime minister Helen Clark, now head of the UN development programme, said the damage to Christchurch was as bad as that seen in Haiti last year. Clark, visiting in a personal capacity, said: \"This is a city where the life has been squeezed out of it ... So many people no longer with us. Grieving families. People with terrible injuries. Livelihoods destroyed.\"A two-minute silence will take place across the country at 12.51pm on Tuesday, a week after the earthquake struck. A vigil for London-based New Zealanders is to be held at Westminster cathedral on Wednesday evening.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Christchurch"], "title": "New Zealand buries earthquake victims"},{"date": "2011-03-01T14:55:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A 4.5-magnitude earthquake was felt by thousands of people in New Zealand as the country held a day of mourning for the 159 confirmed victims and many more missing since last week's quake in Christchurch.This time the earthquake, about 25 miles underground, was felt 12 miles north-west of Wellington. There were no reports of damage after the jolt, just after 10pm local time (09.00 GMT), but the New Zealand Herald reported that houses shook and it felt like the shockwave after the Christchurch quake.Earlier, church bells rang across the country, flags flew at half-mast, and rescue crews in Christchurch switched off jackhammers to join the two-minute silence at 12.51pm, a week after the disaster. Across the city and in many other towns, people gathered, remembering the moments that left the city centre in ruins.\"We are going to come through this, and we are going to rebuild Christchurch,\" said the prime minister, John Key, who grew up in the city. He marked the silence at an art gallery, now used for the rescue operation.Traffic stopped by the Knox church and historic Carlton hotel, both ruined in the earthquake.\"I've lived here all my life \u2026 it's my home and it hurts so much to see it in this way,\" said Mike Cochrane, a resident.The government plans an inquiry into the collapse of some buildings in the city, which were cleared as safe after another quake in September. Police believe at least 240 people died. So far 159 bodies have been recovered, and eight formally identified.The funeral, on Monday, of five-month-old Baxtor Gowland, was followed by that of Jaime Gilbert, 22, a barman and father of two, who was crushed by rubble. At the funeral his family thanked his colleagues who dug to try to save him.Amid clearance work in the grounds of Christchurch cathedral, two time capsules \u2013 a glass bottle and metal container \u2013 were recovered from the plinth of the damaged Victorian statue of the city's founder, John Robert Godley, and handed to the city's museum.Christchurch residents were warned to stay clear of beaches, now contaminated by sewage. Chlorination of water supplies has begun and shower blocks, providing hot water, have been set up in old shipping containers.An estimated NZ$14m (\u00a36.4m) has poured into the relief fund. The government has a NZ$120m emergency package.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "New Zealand hit by further earthquake"},{"date": "2011-02-19T00:05:03Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "It is a quarter past midnight on a street 11,000 miles away and I have found myself leaning against a wall between a drunk Israeli student and a tramp. There is also a puppeteer called Ben, fiddling with his wallet.I am filled with optimism.\"I'm very much looking forward to this burger,\" I say to the Israeli guy, and he smiles, nods and says he is too.Because this burger is no ordinary burger. This burger is apparently quite out of the ordinary. It's a White Lady hamburger, sold from the side of a long, white single-decker bus down a half-dodgy street near a car park. It's a burger with a 60-year history, recommended to me by a man I don't know \u2013 a man linked to me only by the internet \u2013 but it's a burger that when I research it, seems to deserve its kudos.According to the Lonely Planet website, out of 180 things to do in Auckland, having a White Lady hamburger from a long, white single-decker bus down a half-dodgy street near a car park has been voted the number one thing to do. And not just that \u2013 out of 870 recommended things to do in the entire country of New Zealand \u2013 a country of indescribable beauty and incredible history, a country of rugby, and wine, and vista upon vista upon heart-squeezing vista \u2013 this street/bus/burger experience comes in at number \u2026\"Did you know this is the number one recommended thing to do in the whole of New Zealand?\" I ask the drunk Israeli. He gives me a look that implies I've just asked to lick his chips, then his burger is ready, and he takes it\u00a0and leaves.Mine's next. I bite into it.The burger is good.I have not travelled to New Zealand for the hamburgers. I am not boasting when I say I have ready access to hamburgers in London. But I have come here because it's just about as far away from home as you can get. And I'd wondered to myself one day \u2026 what would you do, with no real plans, just about as far away from home as you could be, with no guidebooks or tour guides to rely on? Could you just ask people's advice? Rely on the experience, the kindness, the wisdom, of people just like you?That's the question I asked. And that's how you end up 11,000 miles away leaning against a wall between a drunk Israeli student and a tramp.My first tweet \u2013 sent from the Air New Zealand lounge right before the flight \u2013 simply said where I was going and asked for any tips, in 140 characters or less \u2026One of the first replies came from someone called @LADollhouse: \"Auckland? White Lady hamburgers! Oh! How I yearn for her wares! Go, fall in love, then report back.\"It seemed poetic. It seemed personal. Filled with love and passion.And New Zealand seems to bring that out in people. I'd been once before, several years ago, when I'd spent a few months on the stunning, rough and windswept Great Barrier Island \u2013 but the island was all I'd seen. The passionate recommendations for places to visit, epic landscapes to take in, were always there, always offered \u2026 but I never managed any of it. So this, I'd decided, would be Twitter tourism. I'd rely on locals and visitors alike. If something sounded good, I'd go. If something sounded bad, I'd probably go too. As long as it was a personal recommendation and I could make it work, I was there. I would tweet in Auckland, and then I'd tweet my way south in a country known for adventure, until I reached my final tweeting destination: the top of a thousand-foot hill, in southern Hawke's Bay. A hill by the name of Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamatea haumaitawhitiurehaeaturipukakapikimaungahoronukupokaiwhen uakitanatahu.Because even if you used its abbreviated nickname (\"Taumatawha katangihangakoauauotamateaturipukakapikimaungahoronukupokaiwhenuak itanatahu\"), it's still a very long place name indeed \u2013 the full version, at 105 letters, is the longest in the world \u2013 and when it comes to tweeting, I rather like a challenge.Auckland. 11am. Jet-lagged, weary, I check my phone. My Twitter tourists \u2013 my distant pocket oracles \u2013 have come out in force, with advice that comes thick and fast, free and easy, courtesy of 70,000 helpers stuffed in my pocket.\"Walk up Mount Eden!\" cries @Phoemail. \"Great views of the city!\"\"There's a pub called The Bog that does amazing Guinness!\" says @brendanpwalsh.\"Once it's dark,\" says @Ninja_Lynneja, \"go to the Birkenhead Ferry Terminal \u2026 the city with all its lights looks so pretty from there!\"It all sounds fun!\"Get to a service station and have a dirty pie!\" says @ScrambledBeks.Nearly all of it sounds fun.So I begin. I take a cab to Parnell for a pint of Guinness in The Bog, where I meet a man named Pat who tells me he likes Stephen King and volleyball. I take in the city from its highest peak; the top of Mount Eden, a towering, dormant volcano, accompanied now by that puppeteer called Ben who has seen my tweet and offers to keep me company as I climb. And later, after obeying tweets that introduce me to a local beer, an underground bar and a comedy club, I take Ben to a white single-decker bus down a half-dodgy street near a car park, where I have the\u00a0Cheeseburger, he has the King Burger, and a drunk Israeli drops most of his Egg Burger near a bin as he stumbles away.\"Where are you off to next?\" asks Ben.So I ask Twitter.\"You should stop in Paeroa for a photo by the giant L&P bottle!\" suggests @bernie10 \u2013 and maybe a dozen other people \u2013 the next morning.I say I will. L&P is a soft drink made with lemon and mineral water from the small town of Paeroa. I decide Paeroa must be rather beautiful and wonder if I should stay the day there. And then I read very many tweets which tell me it isn't, so I won't.I've decided to drive as far as Tauranga today \u2013 four hours south, on the coast. On my mind is an intriguing tweet from a @mrdavidwhitley, whose\u00a0profile tells me he's a travel writer from Sheffield, which implies he both knows what he's talking about and might turn to violence if I don't obey. He suggests if I'm headed towards a place called Waitomo, I can paddle into huge dark caves by night, until the moon and the stars are hidden, and the only light is the light of a million glow worms \u2026I have never seen a glow worm. I have never paddled through a huge dark cave at night. This all sounds better than a dirty pie in a service station.So I Google it. Waitomo is not on my way. But Tauranga is \u2026I step out of my tiny rental car on the charmingly named Puke Road and stare up at the giant L&P bottle. Lemon & Paeroa's slogan is \"World Famous in New Zealand\" and the locals seem proud of it. Many of them sit in a cafe opposite, eating chips and drinking \u2013 I would hope \u2013 L&P.Someone called @westderby suggests I try the local food, \"like Maori bread and feijoas!\", and as I climb back in the car @babzzarella demands I drive to nearby Waihi beach. I haven't planned to. It's out of my way. But an hour or so later, there I am: sitting on a beach I would never have seen, drinking feijoa juice I would never have tried, with some hot, fried Maori bread in the car, cooling next to a bottle of L&P considerably smaller than the one on Puke Road.And once I've taken in the waves and the warm breeze and the cosy isolation of the beach, I head for the Bay of Plenty, towards the glow worms and the gentle, calming world of the night-time kayak.\"JESUS CHRIST WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT?\"\"What?\" shouts the man next to me, panicked.We are bobbing about on Lake McLaren, near Mount Maunganui, in the pitch black but with little lights strapped to our heads.\"Something just span through the air and thudded into me and span off again!\" I yelp. \"It was heavy!\"\"Huhu grub,\" says Blair, my guide of the night, and a hardy Kiwi who doesn't scare easily. \"Nasty little thing.\"Well, this is terrific, I think. Thank you so much, @mrdavidwhitley, for suggesting I kayak off into the darkness where there are huge and spinning nasty huhu grubs.But \u2026 I am having the most amazing time. The temperature drops quickly on the lake, and the insects are large, confident and seemingly hungry, but the magic of the caves has me and my five fellow tourists on a high. Out across the still waters we've paddled, the moon high and bright, until all light has faded and the first few glow worms can be seen, their little bodies like curious eyes peeping out from the trees. Deeper in the caves, we've stopped in stunned silence and looked around us, the walls now lit up by a million tiny lights. It is like looking at a strange, bright planet from space; a satellite image that changes and moves with the moment.Sometimes the advice you can get from strangers can be about pies, or pints, I think. But sometimes \u2013 whether it's a quiet lunchtime on a beach or a moment in a cave you'll never forget \u2013 it can lead to something just a little bit spellbinding.The next morning, bright and early, I\u00a0inform my advisers that I'm back in the car and heading for Napier, and wine country. But there is one thing to do on the way.I drive out to Tauranga airport, where a man named Ross is waiting for me. He's wearing shorts, and he has the wrists and watch of a proper man. You know what I'm talking about; he has trustworthy forearms. They're forearms you'd want nearby in a crisis. Which is just as well, because at the behest of Aucklander @benjaminjfrost, I'm about to get into a helicopter to fly to New Zealand's only active marine volcano, White Island.It's a 30-minute flight and after just moments I gasp as I spot sharks in the clear water below, too close to the people on Papamoa beach for my own comfort, never mind theirs.And then we see it. There, in the distance, like something from a film \u2013 perfect and daunting on the horizon, pure white smoke billowing and trailing in the air. We fly closer, until it\u00a0becomes impossibly big, and we round it once, before landing in a place\u00a0as alien and strange and unwelcoming as can be.The first thing I realise, standing on this volcano, is how small I am. People say they feel that when they look at the stars, but all it can take is a rock here on Earth. I am tiny. A speck. Not one of us could have an impact on any aspect of this island. The smell is overpowering at times \u2013 the sulphur weighing heavy in your throat \u2013 and the noise and heat and terrifying power of the smoke that shoots from the rocks brings with it nothing but awe and a hard hat. Everything about this place is like a slight to humans: don't even think about it; this is no place for you.But it is stunning. It is horrible and it\u00a0is beautiful. It is also a very unusual thing to do\u00a0with my day.Four or five hours later, I get out of my car in Napier. I ask for advice once more. I decide that tonight I will watch the 64-year-old mayor of Invercargill do a 45-minute stand-up set in a pub by the beach, but for now \u2013 the wineries. I hire a bike and visit a few \u2026 I forget what happens after that.And the next day I drive to the place with the longest name in the world, and I meet a Maori lady who tells me its history and what it means to them. She says it means, \"The place where Tamatea, the man with the big knees, who slid, climbed and swallowed mountains, known as Landeater, played his flute to his loved one.\"I climb on a quad bike and I'm driven to the top by a former pearl diver named Mark who once met Buzz Aldrin, and I look out at some of the prettiest countryside I've ever seen, while long, grey clouds play with and shift the light around us. I get my phone out.\"I'm in Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateaturipukakapikimaun gahoronukupokaiwhenuakitanatahu,\" I tweet, which takes bloody ages, and then I thank them for their help.And on the way back, I stop at a service station, and I try that dirty pie.\u2022 dannywallace.com/fotoblog; on Twitter: @misterwallace", "tags": ["Auckland holidays", "New Zealand holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Twitter", "Travel"], "title": "Danny Wallace's Twitter tour of New Zealand"},{"date": "2011-03-01T01:59:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Christchurch has begun burying those killed in last week's earthquake as the New Zealand prime minister announces an emergency funding package to support the devastated community.The official death toll from the quake rose to 154 on Tuesday, with grave fears for about 50 people who are unaccounted for.Among the dead or missing are dozens of foreign students, mostly Japanese and Chinese, from an international language school inside an office building that collapsed with up to 120 people inside. Up to 22 other people may be buried in rubble at Christchurch cathedral, most of them believed to be tourists climbing the bell tower for its panoramic views of the southern New Zealand city. Four victims are believed to be British.Police Superintendent Dave Cliff said a substantial number of people were still missing a week after the disaster, and that the total number of those killed could end up being much higher.\"I think we need to start considering that the figure of around 240 [is] not locked in stone because we are still getting information which is taking people off the list and sometimes adding others on,\" Cliff told reporters.The first of many funerals for victims was held on Monday for Baxtor Gowland, who was five months old. More than 200 friends and family attended the service for the baby, who was born a fortnight after Christchurch suffered its first major earthquake on 4 September. He is thought to be the youngest victim.John Key, the PM, has vowed that Christchurch will be rebuilt to building standards that can withstand major earthquakes. Many of the buildings that collapsed or were badly damaged were built before New Zealand upgraded building rules in the 1970s to guard against quake damage.The emergency finance package announced by Key was expected to cost more than NZ$100m (\u00a347m). It comprises a wage subsidy to businesses of NZ$500 a week for each employee, together with job loss compensation of NZ$400 a week to any worker whose employer's business has become unviable. Covering the next six weeks, the package was \"just the first part of the long haul to get the city back on its feet\", Key said. He pledged continuing state support.\"It is designed to immediately put money into peoples' pockets and give them some confidence,\" he said.Engineers and planners said the central city may be unusable for months to come and that at least a third of the buildings may have to be razed. The government has said that virtually all services in the area will have to operate from elsewhere during the rebuilding period.\"It's quite clear that a lot of buildings are going to have to come out of the business district, so where a building is condemned it will need to be taken down,\" Key said.The fund will not be open to businesses with head offices outside Christchurch, or which are government-owned. An estimated 42,000 people are expected to qualify for assistance.Key said rebuilding could take between five and 10 years and would cost between NZ$10bn and NZ$15bn.A bill that size would amount to between 5% and 8% of New Zealand's gross domestic product. It would be a drain on the economy of at least five times that felt on the US economy after hurricane Katrina struck New Orleans in 2005, and \"probably closer to eight times\", Chris Green, an analyst at First NZ Capital, told the National Business Review.The former New Zealand prime minister Helen Clark, now head of the UN development programme, said the damage to Christchurch was as bad as that seen in Haiti last year. Clark, visiting in a personal capacity, said: \"This is a city where the life has been squeezed out of it ... So many people no longer with us. Grieving families. People with terrible injuries. Livelihoods destroyed.\"A two-minute silence will take place across the country at 12.51pm on Tuesday, a week after the earthquake struck. A vigil for London-based New Zealanders is to be held at Westminster cathedral on Wednesday evening.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes", "Christchurch"], "title": "New Zealand buries earthquake victims"},{"date": "2011-03-01T14:55:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A 4.5-magnitude earthquake was felt by thousands of people in New Zealand as the country held a day of mourning for the 159 confirmed victims and many more missing since last week's quake in Christchurch.This time the earthquake, about 25 miles underground, was felt 12 miles north-west of Wellington. There were no reports of damage after the jolt, just after 10pm local time (09.00 GMT), but the New Zealand Herald reported that houses shook and it felt like the shockwave after the Christchurch quake.Earlier, church bells rang across the country, flags flew at half-mast, and rescue crews in Christchurch switched off jackhammers to join the two-minute silence at 12.51pm, a week after the disaster. Across the city and in many other towns, people gathered, remembering the moments that left the city centre in ruins.\"We are going to come through this, and we are going to rebuild Christchurch,\" said the prime minister, John Key, who grew up in the city. He marked the silence at an art gallery, now used for the rescue operation.Traffic stopped by the Knox church and historic Carlton hotel, both ruined in the earthquake.\"I've lived here all my life \u2026 it's my home and it hurts so much to see it in this way,\" said Mike Cochrane, a resident.The government plans an inquiry into the collapse of some buildings in the city, which were cleared as safe after another quake in September. Police believe at least 240 people died. So far 159 bodies have been recovered, and eight formally identified.The funeral, on Monday, of five-month-old Baxtor Gowland, was followed by that of Jaime Gilbert, 22, a barman and father of two, who was crushed by rubble. At the funeral his family thanked his colleagues who dug to try to save him.Amid clearance work in the grounds of Christchurch cathedral, two time capsules \u2013 a glass bottle and metal container \u2013 were recovered from the plinth of the damaged Victorian statue of the city's founder, John Robert Godley, and handed to the city's museum.Christchurch residents were warned to stay clear of beaches, now contaminated by sewage. Chlorination of water supplies has begun and shower blocks, providing hot water, have been set up in old shipping containers.An estimated NZ$14m (\u00a36.4m) has poured into the relief fund. The government has a NZ$120m emergency package.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Natural disasters and extreme weather", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Earthquakes"], "title": "New Zealand hit by further earthquake"},{"date": "2011-02-19T00:05:03Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "It is a quarter past midnight on a street 11,000 miles away and I have found myself leaning against a wall between a drunk Israeli student and a tramp. There is also a puppeteer called Ben, fiddling with his wallet.I am filled with optimism.\"I'm very much looking forward to this burger,\" I say to the Israeli guy, and he smiles, nods and says he is too.Because this burger is no ordinary burger. This burger is apparently quite out of the ordinary. It's a White Lady hamburger, sold from the side of a long, white single-decker bus down a half-dodgy street near a car park. It's a burger with a 60-year history, recommended to me by a man I don't know \u2013 a man linked to me only by the internet \u2013 but it's a burger that when I research it, seems to deserve its kudos.According to the Lonely Planet website, out of 180 things to do in Auckland, having a White Lady hamburger from a long, white single-decker bus down a half-dodgy street near a car park has been voted the number one thing to do. And not just that \u2013 out of 870 recommended things to do in the entire country of New Zealand \u2013 a country of indescribable beauty and incredible history, a country of rugby, and wine, and vista upon vista upon heart-squeezing vista \u2013 this street/bus/burger experience comes in at number \u2026\"Did you know this is the number one recommended thing to do in the whole of New Zealand?\" I ask the drunk Israeli. He gives me a look that implies I've just asked to lick his chips, then his burger is ready, and he takes it\u00a0and leaves.Mine's next. I bite into it.The burger is good.I have not travelled to New Zealand for the hamburgers. I am not boasting when I say I have ready access to hamburgers in London. But I have come here because it's just about as far away from home as you can get. And I'd wondered to myself one day \u2026 what would you do, with no real plans, just about as far away from home as you could be, with no guidebooks or tour guides to rely on? Could you just ask people's advice? Rely on the experience, the kindness, the wisdom, of people just like you?That's the question I asked. And that's how you end up 11,000 miles away leaning against a wall between a drunk Israeli student and a tramp.My first tweet \u2013 sent from the Air New Zealand lounge right before the flight \u2013 simply said where I was going and asked for any tips, in 140 characters or less \u2026One of the first replies came from someone called @LADollhouse: \"Auckland? White Lady hamburgers! Oh! How I yearn for her wares! Go, fall in love, then report back.\"It seemed poetic. It seemed personal. Filled with love and passion.And New Zealand seems to bring that out in people. I'd been once before, several years ago, when I'd spent a few months on the stunning, rough and windswept Great Barrier Island \u2013 but the island was all I'd seen. The passionate recommendations for places to visit, epic landscapes to take in, were always there, always offered \u2026 but I never managed any of it. So this, I'd decided, would be Twitter tourism. I'd rely on locals and visitors alike. If something sounded good, I'd go. If something sounded bad, I'd probably go too. As long as it was a personal recommendation and I could make it work, I was there. I would tweet in Auckland, and then I'd tweet my way south in a country known for adventure, until I reached my final tweeting destination: the top of a thousand-foot hill, in southern Hawke's Bay. A hill by the name of Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamatea haumaitawhitiurehaeaturipukakapikimaungahoronukupokaiwhen uakitanatahu.Because even if you used its abbreviated nickname (\"Taumatawha katangihangakoauauotamateaturipukakapikimaungahoronukupokaiwhenuak itanatahu\"), it's still a very long place name indeed \u2013 the full version, at 105 letters, is the longest in the world \u2013 and when it comes to tweeting, I rather like a challenge.Auckland. 11am. Jet-lagged, weary, I check my phone. My Twitter tourists \u2013 my distant pocket oracles \u2013 have come out in force, with advice that comes thick and fast, free and easy, courtesy of 70,000 helpers stuffed in my pocket.\"Walk up Mount Eden!\" cries @Phoemail. \"Great views of the city!\"\"There's a pub called The Bog that does amazing Guinness!\" says @brendanpwalsh.\"Once it's dark,\" says @Ninja_Lynneja, \"go to the Birkenhead Ferry Terminal \u2026 the city with all its lights looks so pretty from there!\"It all sounds fun!\"Get to a service station and have a dirty pie!\" says @ScrambledBeks.Nearly all of it sounds fun.So I begin. I take a cab to Parnell for a pint of Guinness in The Bog, where I meet a man named Pat who tells me he likes Stephen King and volleyball. I take in the city from its highest peak; the top of Mount Eden, a towering, dormant volcano, accompanied now by that puppeteer called Ben who has seen my tweet and offers to keep me company as I climb. And later, after obeying tweets that introduce me to a local beer, an underground bar and a comedy club, I take Ben to a white single-decker bus down a half-dodgy street near a car park, where I have the\u00a0Cheeseburger, he has the King Burger, and a drunk Israeli drops most of his Egg Burger near a bin as he stumbles away.\"Where are you off to next?\" asks Ben.So I ask Twitter.\"You should stop in Paeroa for a photo by the giant L&P bottle!\" suggests @bernie10 \u2013 and maybe a dozen other people \u2013 the next morning.I say I will. L&P is a soft drink made with lemon and mineral water from the small town of Paeroa. I decide Paeroa must be rather beautiful and wonder if I should stay the day there. And then I read very many tweets which tell me it isn't, so I won't.I've decided to drive as far as Tauranga today \u2013 four hours south, on the coast. On my mind is an intriguing tweet from a @mrdavidwhitley, whose\u00a0profile tells me he's a travel writer from Sheffield, which implies he both knows what he's talking about and might turn to violence if I don't obey. He suggests if I'm headed towards a place called Waitomo, I can paddle into huge dark caves by night, until the moon and the stars are hidden, and the only light is the light of a million glow worms \u2026I have never seen a glow worm. I have never paddled through a huge dark cave at night. This all sounds better than a dirty pie in a service station.So I Google it. Waitomo is not on my way. But Tauranga is \u2026I step out of my tiny rental car on the charmingly named Puke Road and stare up at the giant L&P bottle. Lemon & Paeroa's slogan is \"World Famous in New Zealand\" and the locals seem proud of it. Many of them sit in a cafe opposite, eating chips and drinking \u2013 I would hope \u2013 L&P.Someone called @westderby suggests I try the local food, \"like Maori bread and feijoas!\", and as I climb back in the car @babzzarella demands I drive to nearby Waihi beach. I haven't planned to. It's out of my way. But an hour or so later, there I am: sitting on a beach I would never have seen, drinking feijoa juice I would never have tried, with some hot, fried Maori bread in the car, cooling next to a bottle of L&P considerably smaller than the one on Puke Road.And once I've taken in the waves and the warm breeze and the cosy isolation of the beach, I head for the Bay of Plenty, towards the glow worms and the gentle, calming world of the night-time kayak.\"JESUS CHRIST WHAT THE HELL WAS THAT?\"\"What?\" shouts the man next to me, panicked.We are bobbing about on Lake McLaren, near Mount Maunganui, in the pitch black but with little lights strapped to our heads.\"Something just span through the air and thudded into me and span off again!\" I yelp. \"It was heavy!\"\"Huhu grub,\" says Blair, my guide of the night, and a hardy Kiwi who doesn't scare easily. \"Nasty little thing.\"Well, this is terrific, I think. Thank you so much, @mrdavidwhitley, for suggesting I kayak off into the darkness where there are huge and spinning nasty huhu grubs.But \u2026 I am having the most amazing time. The temperature drops quickly on the lake, and the insects are large, confident and seemingly hungry, but the magic of the caves has me and my five fellow tourists on a high. Out across the still waters we've paddled, the moon high and bright, until all light has faded and the first few glow worms can be seen, their little bodies like curious eyes peeping out from the trees. Deeper in the caves, we've stopped in stunned silence and looked around us, the walls now lit up by a million tiny lights. It is like looking at a strange, bright planet from space; a satellite image that changes and moves with the moment.Sometimes the advice you can get from strangers can be about pies, or pints, I think. But sometimes \u2013 whether it's a quiet lunchtime on a beach or a moment in a cave you'll never forget \u2013 it can lead to something just a little bit spellbinding.The next morning, bright and early, I\u00a0inform my advisers that I'm back in the car and heading for Napier, and wine country. But there is one thing to do on the way.I drive out to Tauranga airport, where a man named Ross is waiting for me. He's wearing shorts, and he has the wrists and watch of a proper man. You know what I'm talking about; he has trustworthy forearms. They're forearms you'd want nearby in a crisis. Which is just as well, because at the behest of Aucklander @benjaminjfrost, I'm about to get into a helicopter to fly to New Zealand's only active marine volcano, White Island.It's a 30-minute flight and after just moments I gasp as I spot sharks in the clear water below, too close to the people on Papamoa beach for my own comfort, never mind theirs.And then we see it. There, in the distance, like something from a film \u2013 perfect and daunting on the horizon, pure white smoke billowing and trailing in the air. We fly closer, until it\u00a0becomes impossibly big, and we round it once, before landing in a place\u00a0as alien and strange and unwelcoming as can be.The first thing I realise, standing on this volcano, is how small I am. People say they feel that when they look at the stars, but all it can take is a rock here on Earth. I am tiny. A speck. Not one of us could have an impact on any aspect of this island. The smell is overpowering at times \u2013 the sulphur weighing heavy in your throat \u2013 and the noise and heat and terrifying power of the smoke that shoots from the rocks brings with it nothing but awe and a hard hat. Everything about this place is like a slight to humans: don't even think about it; this is no place for you.But it is stunning. It is horrible and it\u00a0is beautiful. It is also a very unusual thing to do\u00a0with my day.Four or five hours later, I get out of my car in Napier. I ask for advice once more. I decide that tonight I will watch the 64-year-old mayor of Invercargill do a 45-minute stand-up set in a pub by the beach, but for now \u2013 the wineries. I hire a bike and visit a few \u2026 I forget what happens after that.And the next day I drive to the place with the longest name in the world, and I meet a Maori lady who tells me its history and what it means to them. She says it means, \"The place where Tamatea, the man with the big knees, who slid, climbed and swallowed mountains, known as Landeater, played his flute to his loved one.\"I climb on a quad bike and I'm driven to the top by a former pearl diver named Mark who once met Buzz Aldrin, and I look out at some of the prettiest countryside I've ever seen, while long, grey clouds play with and shift the light around us. I get my phone out.\"I'm in Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateaturipukakapikimaun gahoronukupokaiwhenuakitanatahu,\" I tweet, which takes bloody ages, and then I thank them for their help.And on the way back, I stop at a service station, and I try that dirty pie.\u2022 dannywallace.com/fotoblog; on Twitter: @misterwallace", "tags": ["Auckland holidays", "New Zealand holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Twitter", "Travel"], "title": "Danny Wallace's Twitter tour of New Zealand"},{"date": "2011-03-25T08:00:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Preamble Morning. Who says 50-over cricket has nothing new to offer? This fascinating competition will enter virgin territory today, when either South Africa and New Zealand will win a World Cup knockout game for the first time. The fact they have not done so before is pretty staggering, even if it is not quite the statgasm we might think. This is only the second World Cup to have quarter-finals, so there haven't been that many knockout games down the years: this is the 34th in total, of which six have been lost by New Zealand and four by South Africa. Since South Africa's readmission to international cricket, the two sides have strikingly similar records. They were semi-finalists in 1992, 1999 and 2007; they were quarter-finalists in 1996; and they failed to reach the knockout stages in 2003. Yet a more relevant comparison might be between South Africa and another New Zealand team: the rugby boys, who have also found umpteen weird and wonderful ways not to win a World Cup.If South Africa discover another today, in a match they should win, a popular C-word may well be trending on a social networking site near you. (Insert your own 'and chokers will be trending too' joke here.)The winners of this match will play either Sri Lanka or England in Colombo on Tuesday. This will be played before the India v Pakistan semi-final. Scandalous, clearly, but all part of the plan from cricket's governing body, the BCCI, to ensure that India win.An early email, from Guy Collier \"So this isn't exactly to do with the cricket but stick with me and I will do my best to bring it around. I am currently running a social experiment to see what happens when we open up questions of identity and move away from the traditional tick box approach you see in the census form \u2013 and if one small boy, albeit one who is actually 6ft tall and 30, can run a census from his bedroom using just social media. And the power of OBO cricket.\"I am looking for any and all plugs to encourage people to state on Twitter #altcensus today I am.... I will gather all the statements to see how they compare to the national census. If anyone has any questions they can check www.alternativecensus.org.uk. So here is my tenuous cricket link: what box do half the England cricket team tick when asked about national identity...? Maybe if they took part in the Alternative Census we could find out!\"The power of OBO cricket. Arf!South Africa at the World CupGroup stages: P42 W30 L11 T1 (Win percentage: 71)Knockout games: P4 W0 L3 T1 (Win percentage: 0)New Zealand at the World CupGroup stages: P61 W39 L22 (Win percentage: 64)Knockout games: P6 W0 L6 (Win percentage: 0)New Zealand have won the toss and will bat first. I think they had to do that to have a realistic chance of victory. That sets this game up beautifully. If they put 250 on the board, chase won't be the only CH-word we'll be mentioning as South Africa's batsmen go about their business.Both sides have picked three frontline spinners. Daniel Vettori returns to the side, even though he is not fully fit, and the left-armer Luke Woodcock also comes in, with James Franklin omitted. South Africa have Johan Botha, Imran Tahir and Robin Peterson, while the big three \u2013 Dale Steyn, Morne Morkel and AB de Villiers \u2013 return after sitting out the final group games against Bangladesh. Morne van Wyk misses out as a result.New Zealand Guptill, B McCullum (wk), Ryder, Taylor, Styris, Williamson, Vettori, N McCullum, Oram, Southee, Woodcock.South Africa Smith (c), Amla, Kallis, de Villiers (wk), Duminy, du Plessis, Botha, Peterson, Steyn, Morkel, Tahir.As these two are serial losers in the World Cup knockout stages, here is some encouragement for them from one of the most inspiring figures ever to bestride this earth. Ignore the bit at the top right of the video.Morning people Who are these weird \"morning people\" I keep seeing? They're a menace to society with their walking, talking and general 6am sentience. My alarm has been going off before 5.30 and 6 throughout this World Cup, and I've not felt so consistently violated since I inexplicably watched most of the first season of Gossip Girl in one hit. Why would anyone get up at such an hour, never mind seem so jaunty and busy? Yes we all admire your lust for life and the incontrovertibly superior energy content of your diet, but please don't rub in our face, at least not before midday.Thankfully the Guardian power-showers are one of the best things that have ever happened to anyone, ever, so I now feel vaguely human. But I still don't understand these strange \"morning people\". They're worse than the paediatricians. There's even a guide how to be a morning person. No thanks!1st over: New Zealand 2-0 (Guptill 1, B McCullum 1) South Africa open with a spinner, as usual. How odd it is to type that sentence. Today it's Robin Peterson rather than Johan Botha and his first over, played cagily, brings just a couple of singles. \"Can today's match officially be termed a west London derby?\" says Elliot Carr-Barnsley. \"Also, cracking article by Selvey on Yardy's depression.\" It was. Selve is in storming form at the moment.2nd over: New Zealand 5-0 (Guptill 1, B McCullum 4) Dale Steyn's first ball is driven urgently through extra cover for three by Brendon McCullum. Those are the only runs from the over, although one delivery to Guptill bounces twice before reaching the keeper, a reflection of the pace of this pitch. New Zealand have beaten South Africa at the last two World Cups, famously so in 2003 when Stephen Fleming played an awesome innings; they are not the same side these days, but don't write them off, at least not until they collapse to 40 for seven. They certainly have a puncher's chance now that they are batting first. \"Hold your horses Smyth, my boy,\" says Andrew Jobson. \"In the (admittedly unlikely) event of the match being abandoned, the higher-ranked team (SA) progresses. So New Zealand would be knocked out, and SA could then get beaten in the semi by the winner of SL-Eng, preserving both teams' winless records.\"WICKET! New Zealand 5-1 (B McCullum ct and b Peterson 4) A sensational return catch from Robin Peterson gets rid of the dangerman Brendon McCullum. He danced down the track but was done by a bit of extra bounce and pushed the ball back to the left of Peterson, who dived and then extended a telescopic arm to take a wonderful catch. He took an unbelievable catch off his own bowling earlier in the tournament to dismiss Ian Bell, and this was comparable. Brilliant stuff.3rd over: New Zealand 6-1 (Guptill 1, Ryder 1) Robin Peterson is having quite a tournament. \"This is it, isn't it?\" says Duncan Bonnett. \"I've spent the whole of last night and this morning not laughing at the Aussies in case it comes back to bite my boys as karmic revenge. We need to get into the Kiwi middle order quickly, or I'm afraid the ahem, nerves, will start to jangle out there. On paper, we're too strong for the Kiwis, but what if they pick scissors instead of rock?\" Could make a 'Dale Stone' joke. Doesn't really work. Dale Stone!4th over: New Zealand 14-1 (Guptill 1, Ryder 8) An unusually sloppy over from Steyn includes a low full toss and a leg-side wide to Ryder, who then inside edges a hot inswinger to fine leg for four. These are very dangerous times for New Zealand, who could fold if they lose another one here. Ryder ends the over by clunking a pull over mid on for three. \"Please can we have early mention for what I expect to be the star of today's game?\" says Neil Withers. \"I am of course referring to Daniel Vettori's amazing moustache \u2013 I saw it last night on TV and couldn't stop laughing! It's the finest display of slug-balancing since Baldrick.\"5th over: New Zealand 15-1 (Guptill 1, Ryder 9) The offspinner Johan Botha replaces Robin Peterson. As Mark Nicholas says on Sky, Graeme Smith is loving captaining a side with so many options. It's like going from the basic five channels to the full Sky+ experience, or so I'd imagine if I had Sky. Botha so nearly zips a quicker one through Ryder, who gets a very late inside edge. One from a very good over. South Africa have been seriously impressive thus far. \"Morning people have just taken the next logical step from pretending they didn't want to come to the party you didn't invite them to,\" says Dan Smith. \"They couldn't come to that party, or indeed any other event you wouldn't want them at, because they need to be up bright and early for a granola-fuelled jog to the office. I spit in their carrot juice.\"WICKET! New Zealand 16-2 (Guptill c Botha b Steyn 1) This is too easy for South Africa. Steyn dupes Guptill with a lovely slower ball, and he drives it high in the air to mid off, where Botha takes a nonchalant running catch.6th over: New Zealand 16-2 (Ryder 10, Taylor 0) In their last World Cup knockout game, the 2007 semi-final, South Africa lost the match inside 10 overs. They might have won this one by the 10th over. They have been outstanding. \"You can rail against morning people all you want,\" says Peter Hanes, \"but never forget that they're the ones that ensure that the supermarket is stocked with fish fingers by the time you get there.\"7th over: New Zealand 17-2 (Ryder 10, Taylor 1) One from another crafty Botha over. New Zealand are in all sorts of bother, already. \"Yesterday's link to the freak yoga instructor and his rooster was bad enough, but linking to Nick Berry singing that execrable dirge is going too far,\" says Martin Sinclair. \"I'd rather complete my census than sit through that twaddle!\"8th over: New Zealand 24-2 (Ryder 16, Taylor 2) Morkel replaces Steyn, and Ryder flays a full delivery square on the off side for four. Good shot. \"If you want to become a morning person it is simple - have a small child (yes yes I know, OBO readers, but even Millings has managed),\" says Robin Hazlehurst. \"You will get up at ungodly hours for several years and eventually get used to it. Option two, be a small child, they are certainly morning people. You were probably one too once, you just don't remember.\"9th over: New Zealand 27-2 (Ryder 17, Taylor 3) Crikey, Danny Morrison has entered the commentary box and is now using that soft, ticklish voice of his. I bet he whispers the sweetest nothings. Botha bowls a leg-side wide and then Ryder pushes a single to mid off. NZ bat a long way down \u2013 Oram is down to come in at No9 \u2013 so there's no need to panic just yet. But they need to find a bowler to target, and I'm not sure there are any. \"I don't really get why anyone would want to get up early every day,\" says Guy Hornsby. \"It's a necessity in order to pay the bills, to top up the supply of Liver Compromiser. The sort of people that do it are the preternaturally happy people \u2013 like children's TV presenters \u2013 that talk in awful lingo: work/life balance, working 'clever', maximising your potential, living life to the full. I just got a bit of sick in my mouth from that. There are so few jobs that would make you want to do that. Astronaut? Actor? International playboy? OBO writer? I bet Hugh Hefner doesn't get up in the morning. And yes, I'm hungover.\" I just typed 'children's TV presenter' into google, and look what was the second result.10th over: New Zealand 34-2 (Ryder 24, Taylor 3) Ryder spanks another square drive for four off Morkel, despite or perhaps because of the presence of Kallis at short point. It went through his legs in fact. Ryder then pulls through square leg for three. He's a dangerous customer, and he looks in the mood to give it some humpty. \"I'm a Kiwi watching in Wellington,\" says Cat Doran. \"Expecting an early night once we implode.\" Now that's what I call confidence.11th over: New Zealand 36-2 (Ryder 25, Taylor 4) \"Any tips on getting my colleagues in Norway to embrace the majestic game that is cricket (even if it is the pyjama format)?\" says Al Weeks. \"I can't see why it's not a big hit here already, the climate is perfect for it and with the recent performance of minor nations they've probably got a chance of putting an ad hoc team together and giving England a close game.\" Show them lots of videos of Viv. He was even cooler than your average Scandinavian, so they'll surely recognise the swagger.12th over: New Zealand 47-2 (Ryder 33, Taylor 5) Peterson is back for Morkel, who took a little bit of abuse from Ryder. As does Peterson when a widish delivery is clattered through the covers for four. He gets four more to the same area off the last ball of the over, this time with a cut stroke. Ryder looks dangerous. \"What a great start by the South Africans,\" says George Miller. \"Peterson has really been a revelation for us in the WC. Although we are supposed to working on three papers (tomorrow, Sunday and Monday), production has pretty much ground to a halt.\"13th over: New Zealand 50-2 (Ryder 34, Taylor 7) Imran Tahir is going to bowl. He has stunning record in this tournament \u2013 12 wickets at an average of 9.83 \u2013 and his second ball is a delicious googly that beats Ryder all ends up. Three from the over. \"Rob old chap, am I the only one picking up a bit of, umm,\n\nKenneth Williams\n campness in your commentary this morning?\" says Steve Hudson. \"Lovely man paunch? Danny M's whispered sweet nothings? If you're building up to a frank admission of some sort, just let me tell you that the OBO crew will be very supportive. After all, there's no room for intolerance in the world of online bilge these days. We'll tolerate anything. Clearly.\"14th over: New Zealand 53-2 (Ryder 35, Taylor 9) Three singles from Peterson's over. \"Oh come on all you townies, out here in the wilds of Oxonshire there is the dawn chorus (coming in strong at about 0500 currently but set to move earlier),\" says Angus Doulton. \"Exactly what is needed to fortify one for a morning's OBO humour. Actually even in the midst of town, you'd be surprised what a few blackbirds can do to support the critical first mug of tea.\" I wish I was in bed. Normally, if you wake up early by accident, you can spend an hour moseying around, then get an extra nap in and still be up for midday when the day formally begins.15th over: New Zealand 57-2 (Ryder 36, Taylor 12) There's more chance of Lord Henry Manners of Mannersville zestily picking his nose at the dinner table than there is of Ryder picking Tahir. He hasn't got a clue, but he's getting away with it for now. Taylor isn't entirely comfortable either and he gets a leading edge that falls safely on the off side.\"In the 6th over, when it was 16-2, you said that South Africa could have this game won by the 10th over,\" says Luke Dealtry. \"It's now the 13th over and the Kiwis are 50-2. CHOKERS!\" You said the word. You're not supposed to do that. If you say the C-word five times in a mirror, terrible things will happen.16th over: New Zealand 58-2 (Ryder 37, Taylor 12) The returning Morkel's first ball is belaboured towards backward point by Ryder, and Duminy saves four with a brilliant diving save. Just one from the over, but this has been a decent comeback from New Zealand. Their tactic should be to just stay in the game as long as possible and hope that the asphyxiating pressure does for South Africa later on. It goes against all logic, but I think New Zealand have got a real chance today. \"A question for OBO readers,\" says Steve Kerr. \"Does anyone know of a London pub showing the Crusaders/Sharks Super XV game live on Sunday? Obviously can't be arsed going to Twickenham and will donate independently here.\"17th over: New Zealand 61-2 (Ryder 39, Taylor 13) New Zealand must find a way to impose themselves on Tahir, which is easier typed from thousands of miles away than done. Just three from the over, which is again played with a respect that borders on fear. \"How about a bit more commentary about the game,\" says Clinton Rowling. \"Remember that thing people are logging on to the live feed to follow?? As much as I find your campness amusing and your amazement that people get up early slightly interesting I'm logged on to follow a quarter final game at the cricket World Cup....\" Sure. Where do I send the editorial consultancy fee? And when do I come and tell you how to do your job?18th over: New Zealand 69-2 (Ryder 44, Taylor 14) Morkel hasn't been at his best today \u2013 too wide to Ryder in particular, and he clubs two more through the covers. Whatever you do, don't let him free those massive arms. Morkel gets a slower ball wrong later in the over and Ryder helps it around the corner for four to bring up a good fifty partnership. \"In response to Guy Hornsby's comments in the 9th over, people who get up early every day are not preternaturally happy people,\" says Ewan Dunnett. \"They are usually depressed and full of fear. So much so they can't sleep. Children's television presenters, much like many comedians, are full of inner demons.\" Children's TV presenters are a fascinating genre of human. Have you seen that lass on Dancing On Ice. I haven't, because I have never watched Dancing On Ice, ever, but my friends tell me she has a ceaseless jauntiness that borders on the disconcerting.19th over: New Zealand 75-2 (Ryder 47, Taylor 19) Botha replaces Tahir, and the hitherto strokeless Taylor plays a gorgeous extra-cover drive for four. That's his first boundary. This has been an extremely good partnership, not least because it would have been easy to wave the white one after that abysmal start. \"If Steve Kerr wants to watch the Sharks/Crusaders game he should head to the Famous Three Kings just by West Ken tube,\" says John O'Mahony. \"Probably the best sports-watching pub ever. They have about 50-odd screens and they all seem to be showing something different. Some of the tables even have their own TV. Not been there for a couple of years mind so might have gone downhill.\" Everything does. It says here.20th over: New Zealand 77-2 (Ryder 48, Taylor 20) Graeme Smith continues to shuffle his bowlers \u2013 he really is a kid in a sweet shop \u2013 with Kallis replacing Morkel. Taylor ducks under an existentialism-heavy bouncer, and there are just two from the over. \"I don't even read the commentary here anymore, except maybe the bits in bold,\" says Niall Harden. \"I'm here for the great life advice, withering sarcasm, Freudian misprints and unsettling videos. I don't even really understand rugby.\"21st over: New Zealand 80-2 (Ryder 49, Taylor 22) Three singles from Botha's over. South Africa could do with a wicket here. They might just, for the first time, be thinking dark thoughts. \"I'm sensing,\" begins Jonathan Wood, \"that Clinton isn't a morning person.\"22nd over: New Zealand 84-2 (Ryder 51, Taylor 24) Nobody really knows what a good score on is on what is a pretty slow pitch, but I reckon New Zealand would take 250. Taylor opens the face to glide Kallis to third man for a single. Then Ryder pushes a single to reach a really good half-century, defiant at first and controlled thereafter. He almost falls to the last delivery, however, gloving an attempted hook to third man for a single. \"Dear Coronation Street, I like cookery programmes,\" says Scott Murray. \"Please stop telling stories about people in Manchester and start doing recipes. Dear Brian Cox, I am frightened of the dark. Please stop talking about space.\"23rd over: New Zealand 87-2 (Ryder 53, Taylor 25) Botha has been pretty economical today. Just three singles from that over, so his figures are now 7-0-19-0. \"Can anyone give me a good reason,\" begins Gary Naylor, \"why SA deny themselves the services of the best fielder in the world in order to use him as a below average keeper?\" Because fielding isn't quantified. Which is not to say you don't have a point.24th over: New Zealand 88-2 (Ryder 53, Taylor 25) One from Kallis's over. This is a good spell for South Africa, with the last five overs bringing only 12 runs. As Pat Symcox says on Sky, New Zealand's dot-ball ratio has been too high today. Yet, for all that, they are still in a perfectly acceptable position. \"Just to clarify \u2013 having children doesn't mean you get up early; it just means your sleep is more fractured from 5-7am,\" says Kristian Petterson. \"Oh, and that your significant other loathes you even more than ever as they deal with said offspring as you snore. Apparently.\"25th over: New Zealand 92-2 (Ryder 56, Taylor 26) This might be New Zealand's window of opportunity, with the offspinner JP Duminy coming into the attack. Ryder chips high over extra cover for a couple, and two singles complete the over. \"I'm torn,\" says Jay Rose. \"As an Australian, I desperately want to see the Kiwis win this one, but a hard-earned grudging respect for Graeme Smith makes me want to see him end his career with a WC trophy. Plus, I simply can't see NZ beating India, which is even more important.\"26th over: New Zealand 93-2 (Ryder 56, Taylor 27) This is a nice move from Smith. He could have let the game drift along for another five overs, but instead he has brought back Dale Steyn with a view to breaking this partnership. He doesn't do that, but it is a tight over that yields just one. New Zealand have scored only 18 off the last seven overs. Something will have to give pretty soon. \"Obviously I would rather stay up until 3 am smoking and drinking with all you salt of the earth chaps,\" says Richard Hands, \"but I have get up early because I live in Africa (where as often as not there's no electricity) and because my children have to be ready to leave for school at 6.30. Granola and carrot juice have nothing to do with it. In other news, the true delight of this WC for me has been the re-emergence and indeed pre-eminence of really good spin bowling. Just wish I could watch it.\"27th over: New Zealand 98-2 (Ryder 58, Taylor 29) Duminy's over is a better one for New Zealand, with five from it. \"Answer to Naylor's question about South Africa's wicketkeeper,\" says Robin Hazlehurst. \"Morne van Wyk's batting.\"28th over: New Zealand 104-2 (Ryder 64, Taylor 29) Ryder brings up the 100 with the first boundary for nine overs, a thumping off drive off Steyn. \"How about more discussion of fish fingers and other important stuff,\" says Tony Tyler. \"These days almost every entry seems to start with some rubbish about cricket. Anyone would think you're obsessed. (Please send the editorial consultancy fee to me.)\"29th over: New Zealand 108-2 (Ryder 65, Taylor 32) Imran Tahir replaces JP Duminy and whistles through an over at a cost of four. \"Beavering away on a preview as I am, I've only just caught up with your 11th over Norwegian reference,\" says Mike Selvey. \"I'm currently reading a Henning Mankell 'Wallander' novel, which when set alongside The Killing and the Stieg Larsson trilogy means that I would no more report cricket in Scandinavia than I would Midsomer.\"30th over: New Zealand 116-2 (Ryder 71, Taylor 34) Another bowling change, the 11th of the innings, with Robin Peterson replacing Dale Steyn. Ryder greets him by charging down the wicket to the first ball and blasting it over mid off for a one-bounce four. The boundary from the first ball of an over helps relax the batsmen \u2013 like when you actually make people laugh during the first pint and can therefore sit and not worry about being you for the next 10 minutes or so \u2013 and they are happy to milk singles for the rest of the over, the last of which brings up a meticulous century partnership. \"Dear Ron Jeremy,\" begins Dan Smith. \"Enough of this grunting, when's that washing machine going to be fixed?\"31st over: New Zealand 118-2 (Ryder 72, Taylor 35) Ryder slices Tahir over point. Just two from a good over. \"There's not much interest in NZ /SA here in Dubai on a lovely weekend afternoon,\" says Bob Cochrane. \"But I'm wondering what the town will be like come Wednesday, 1:00 pm local time, when India and Pakistan square off. My guess is that streets will be empty and a record number of workers will fall victim to a mysterious illness.\" The battle fever.32nd over: New Zealand 128-2 (Ryder 75, Taylor 42) Ross Taylor gets down one knee to slog sweep Peterson for a big six. \"There we go boy!\" says Mark Nicholas. This game is about to get interesting. Ten from the over. \"This one,\" says Kristian Petterson, \"goes out to all the people who've found themselves at the Guardian OBO by mistake...\" That's hilarious. But clearly not true, because we love and respect all our readers equally here at the Guardian.WICKET! New Zealand 130-3 (Taylor c Kallis b Tahir 43) All that good work undone in an instant. Taylor slog sweeps straight to deep square leg, where Kallis takes a good catch. That was smart cricket from Tahir, who hurried Taylor by whipping through his over in no time. Taylor tried to delay him, but he was a little flustered and fell to the final delivery.33rd over: New Zealand 130-3 (Ryder 76, Styris 0) Apparently the auto-refresh again isn't working. Apologies for that. Still, hammering F5 is endearingly retro, right? Oh. \"Isn't navel gazing the whole point of cricket?\" says Myles Thomas. \"Why else would anyone stand out in a field for a long period every weekend for a summer focussing on the off chance of a ball being hit close enough to catch?\"34th over: New Zealand 135-3 (Ryder 80, Styris 1) Five from Peterson's over, and it's time for the mandatory ball change.35th over: New Zealand 139-3 (Ryder 82, Styris 3) Four singles from Botha's over. New Zealand have clearly put all their eggs in the basket marked 'overs 46-50'. It's a big risk, but an understandable one for such obvious underdogs. I still think their best tactic is to just stay in the game as long as possible. Even if South Africa are 185 for three in the 40th, chasing 250, New Zealand will be reasonably happy. \"And to the fellow who loses sleep between five and seven because of a baby, try triplets, sunshine,\" says Mike Selvey. \"You haven't even seen the shine off the new ball with one.\"36th over: New Zealand 147-3 (Ryder 82, Styris 11) Morkel returns to the attack, and his first is pushed supremely down the ground for four by Styris. That's a gorgeous stroke, and three balls later he drags a slower ball through midwicket for four more. Morkel has, by his very high standards, been poor today. \"Agree with Lord Selvey, Norwegians won't get cricket,\" says Ben Dorning. \"They like sport to be about man vs nature, not man against man. Otherwise they get all Scandinavian and cerebral about it \u2013 a friend was at a football match in Sweden recently when two groups of fans were singing different football chants at each other. He asked his Swedish friend what they were saying and apparently one group's chant was 'Push up more and stop sitting so deep' while the reply from the other group was 'Yes, but don't leave the centre backs exposed!'\"37th over: New Zealand 153-3 (Ryder 83, Styris 16) Styris has started extremely well. He dances down the track to drive Botha's second ball emphatically over mid on for four and now has 16 from 14 balls. \"This hitting this F5 has just got me into trouble,\" says Mark Taylor. \"My manager, who can't see my screen but can see what I'm doing, has told to me that for the last ten minutes all she's seen me do is hit one key on my keyboard. Not sure I could explain that one?\" Tell her it's 'X' and you're just a very very modern man.WICKET! New Zealand 153-4 (Styris b Morkel 16) I told you Styris looked good. That was one shot too many. He charged Morkel and tried a roundhouse slap over the off side, but the ball flew off the bottom edge and onto the stumps.38th over: New Zealand 154-4 (Ryder 83, Williamson 1) Just one from Morkel's over, and the wicket. \"As a player for The Stockholm Academicals in the prestigious Swedish Premier (well, only) League, I'd like to formally invite Lord Selvey to report on one of our matches this summer,\" says Dan MacDonald. \"I can personally vouch for his safety, although some of my shot selection will almost certainly be criminal.\"WICKET! New Zealand 156-5 (Ryder c sub (Ingram) b Tahir 83) New Zealand are starting to subside. Ryder top edges a sweep straight to deep square leg, and the substitute Colin Ingram takes an easy catch. Tahir charges around in celebration like a man who has cured baldness, banging his head back and forth in delight. There are few bowlers in world cricket who enjoy taking wickets as much as he does.39th over: New Zealand 157-5 (Williamson 3, N McCullum 0) Williamson cannot afford to hang around here. It's a big ask for a 20-year-old, but he needs to play himself in with singles, not dot balls. Just two runs from the over. \"Apologies for attempting to use you like a local radio station,\" says Nick Williamson, \"but if you were able to post a message about my JustGiving page I'd be very grateful indeed. I am a member of a team from Scottish Widows which is taking part in the Intelligent Sport UK Challenge in Exmoor from 16-19 June 2011. We are competing to raise funds on behalf of Children 1st (effectively the Scottish branch of the NSPCC), which is obviously a great cause. Even better is that Lloyds Banking Group (of which we are part) has pledged to match anything we manage to raise.\"40th over: New Zealand 164-5 (Williamson 10, N McCullum 0) Wiliamson edges Morkel just short of Smith at slip. He then works one nicely through midwicket for three in an over that brings seven. New Zealand are still just about in this game. \"Mark Taylor can avoid his manager's glare by using the right mouse button to bring up a menu, and the left clicking refresh,\" says Paul Wakefield, who may or may not have thought this through.41st over: New Zealand 168-5 (Williamson 12, N McCullum 2) Four singles from Tahir's over. \"Having met the erstwhile children's TV presenter Dave Benson Phillips, I can assure you that that lass on Dancing on Ice's jauntiness would pale into insignificance,\" says James Prout. \"He is as jaunty and relentlessly happy at 6 in the morning off stage/camera as he is at 4 in the afternoon on stage/camera dropping parents into the gunk dunk. Yes the time I met him at that ungodly hour, I was hungover. My day was a long and tortuous one.\"42nd over: New Zealand 169-5 (Williamson 12, N McCullum 3) Nathan McCullum edges Steyn's second ball on the half volley to the keeper de Villiers. Only one run from an excellent over. \"To be absolutely certain of an early start, make sure you acquire not only a small child, but at least one cat,\" says Richard O'Hagan. \"If the child does not wake you at the crack of dawn, the cat almost certainly will. For guaranteed results, get more than one cat, that way you can be sure that if one of them isn't moaning about a lack of food or trying to show off a mouse, the other certainly will be. Or they'll be fighting with each other. I've even tried making mine watch Tom & Jerry and they still don't get it.\"43rd over: New Zealand 171-5 (Williamson 13, N McCullum 4) South Africa are squeezing this innings very impressively. Two from Peterson's over, which means the last six have brought only 18 runs and two wickets. \"I had two root canals last Friday,\" chirps Michael Behl. \"The pain wasn't too bad but on Wednesday night I was eating pasta sauce with bacon in it, I bit down on a piece of bacon and it hurt, like really, really hurt. I never thought bacon would ever cause me pain. Now I've been in pain since then and I have a final root canal booked for 3.45pm today. This pretty much ruins my Friday, the only thing I could hope for is South Africa losing, it would alleviate some of the inevitable pain.\" Root canals on consecutive Fridays? Dumb luck. That gives a whole new meaning to the Friday feeling.44th over: New Zealand 174-5 (Williamson 15, N McCullum 5) Still no sign of a Powerplay, or any power play. Three singles from Steyn's over. This is slipping away from New Zealand. \"Robin Hazlehurst's advice in the 8th over,\" begins Steve Johnson. \"Because it was very boring you won't recall that you posted my advice earlier this tournament regarding the positives of small children in overcoming the 'clean glasses' fixation. Are you starting to see a trend? Listen to the fans, Smyth. Listen to the fans. You know it makes sense\u2026 (I can't provide much advice on the 'finding the right woman' bit. Except these things take time, even if you're the most inept etc.)\"45th over: New Zealand 187-5 (Williamson 23, N McCullum 6) New Zealand finally take the batting Powerplay, and Robin Peterson's ninth over disappears for 13. Williamson mows the second over ball over mid on for six, a fine shot, and then McCullum misses a huge swipe at a ball that races away for four byes. \"SA choking again...\" says Andre van der Walt. \"Luckily they're choking NZ this time.\"WICKET! New Zealand 188-6 (N McCullum c Duminy b Steyn 6) This might be a blessing in disguise for New Zealand. Nathan McCullum's grim innings of 6 in 18 balls, in which the only thing he middled was fresh air, ends when he swipes a slower ball from Steyn up in the air and straight to point. Great work from Steyn, who is a master when it comes to death bowling. And new-ball bowling, and middle-overs bowling...46th over: New Zealand 189-6 (Williamson 24, Oram 0) Steyn has brilliant figures of 8-0-25-2. He is so good.47th over: New Zealand 196-6 (Williamson 26, Oram 6) Jacob Oram just need to score 40 not out off 15 balls. No pressure. He sweeps his second ball, from Tahir, behind square for four. \"Can someone explain why Oram is batting below Nathan McCullum?\" says Anand. \"Wasn't Oram supposed to be one of the big hitters?\" No and yes.48th over: New Zealand 203-6 (Williamson 32, Oram 7) No boundaries in that Steyn over, but New Zealand do manage to bust their lungs to the tune of seven runs. Williamson would have been miles out had Faf du Plessis hit the stumps from mid off.WICKET! New Zealand 204-7 (Oram b Morkel 7) Oram misses, Morkel hits, and New Zealand's hopes of 230 or more have now gone. That was an excellent first delivery back from Morkel, right on target and hitting the top of off stump when Oram missed a mighty hoick.WICKET! New Zealand 210-8 (Vettori b Morkel 6) Morne Morkel cleans Vettori up with a wonderful slower yorker. Seven balls remaining. There was an odd bit of commentary from Mark Nicholas, who screamed \"EEEEEEEEE'S GOT 'IM!\" but with the \"EEEEE\" sounding like something out of Bullseye.49th over: New Zealand 211-8 (Williamson 32, Woodcock 1) From the last 12 overs, New Zealand have scored 58 for the loss of five wickets. South Africa have been fantastic in the field.50th over: New Zealand 221-8 (Williamson 38, Woodcock 3) The last over of the innings from Steyn goes for 10, including a boundary over extra cover from Williamson and a wide off what should have been the last ball. Williamson's cameo of 38 from 41 balls has given New Zealand a chance, but South Africa were superb in the field and would probably reach their target of 222 nine times out of ten. Alan Gardner will type you through the first 10 overs of New Zealand reply in half an hour or so; you can email him on alan.gardner.casual@theguardian.com.INNINGS BREAKAfternoon, chooks. How are we? I was going to mock up a picture of Graeme Smith wearing a snood to display at the top of the page throughout the South Africa run chase but in the end I\n\ncouldn't be bothered\n didn't have time. Anyway, to those asking about the absence of scorecard and popup \u2013 we only get them for England games. You didn't think this was a proper operation, did you?Here's Ant Pease: \"Short of turning up like The Dude from The Big Lebowski (or El Duderino if you're not into that whole brevity thing) complete with jazz woodbine, how can your email officially pronounce you to be more casual than Bull?\" Haven't you seen Bully's new byline photo? He's a married man, now. The Dude abides no longer ...1st over: South Africa 8-0 (target: 222, Amla 7, Smith 1) South Africa can't mess this one up, can they? Anyway, we're about to get going again. Nathan McCullum is going to bowl the first over \u2013 a somewhat leftfield choice, even by this tournament's standards. He's also starting around the wicket, to the right-handed Amla ... who leans into a couple of lazily effective cover drives, taking a two and a four from the first three balls. Hang on, what's this ...WICKET! Amla c Vettori b N McCullum 7 (1st over: South Africa 8-1, target: 222) That's a very unfortunate way to go, as Amla is caught at slip after his edge rebounded up off wicketkeeper Brendon McCullum's boot! It looked like a bump-ball on first sight but the McCullums and Vettori both knew what had happened. Amla cut a ball that kept low, the shot deflecting on to the toe of McCullum's boot and popping straight up to Vettori.2nd over: South Africa 10-1 (target: 222, Smith 3, Kallis 0) \"I generally dont like to do a Warnie, but I predict NZ will win this match by about 15 runs with Daniel Vettori scaring the SA with his moustache to get five wickets,\" prognosticates Pratik Dubey. Vettori, sadly, has got rid of his 'stache, but he opens at the other end \u2013 spinners at both ends! Smith almost runs himself out but just manages to beat the direct hit from long-leg.3rd over: South Africa 15-1 (target: 222, Smith 6, Kallis 2) It's an over of shoes (ones and twos, for those wanting in their cockney) from McCullum. The good news for South Africa is that New Zealand were 6-1 for one after three overs of their innings. They're miles ahead! \"The run chase total is ominous,\" warns Ian Copestake. \"In South Africa 222 is the number of Diabilto, the very small devil.\" Has anyone ever had to chase 666? Obviously you'd have no chance of getting it ...4th over: South Africa 18-1 (target: 222, Smith 6, Kallis 5) Here's a good link from Mo Holkar, who points out that Amla's dismissal is reminiscent of this David Gower number. You do see them ... I'm sure there's a more recent example lurking in among the shadowy recesses of my brain. Vettori rattles through six balls of left-arm darts.5th over: South Africa 20-1 (target: 222, Smith 7, Kallis 6) Brendon McCullum thinks he's got Kallis, strangled down the legside off his brother's bowling ... but it looks like it just clipped his pads. The good thing about there being two spinners on so early is that I'll get to hand back to Smyth asap; the bad: I have no time to get up to speed!6th over: South Africa 27-1 (target: 222, Smith 8, Kallis 12) The bear thumps a drive down the ground for four ... and then gets hit on his back pad after stomping down the track. New Zealand decide not to review it and although it was probably hitting leg the decision wouldn't have been overturned. \"Anand here,\" writes Anand, helpfully, \"writing from the Netherlands. Have you ever seen something as garish as McCullum's gloves? Looks like one of those traffic policemen. IF he were a bowler wearing an arm band like that, I am sure the batsmen would object. If SRT, the man who can detect miniscule movement in and around the sightscreen were to bat, he would object to the gloves ;).\" They're not as bad as Kevin O'Brien's hairdo.7th over: South Africa 33-1 (target: 222, Smith 9, Kallis 17) Tim Southee comes on to give these opening exchanges a more traditional flavour. He's joint-fourth on the tournament wicket-takers list but it doesn't look like the pitch will be offering him much assistance today. Kallis pings one off his legs for four. \"Don't know about chasing 666,\" says Vincent Barreto, \"but Victoria beat Tasmania by an innings and 666 runs in Melbourne about 1922 \u2026 and Tasmania has devils!!!\" Irony, eh? If I only I knew what it meant.8th over: South Africa 36-1 (target: 222, Smith 11, Kallis 18) Vettori (4-0-15-0) continues to keep a lid on things. A delivery that drifted across Smith but didn't turn appreciably snicks a thick-ish outside edge, with the ball running down towards third man for a couple. A first half-century of the tournament from Smith would go a long way to averting South Africa's need for the Heimlich manoeuvre at any stage today.9th over: South Africa 44-1 (target: 222, Smith 13, Kallis 24) A top edged hook from Kallis alls short of the man running in from long leg. Southee then strays on to Kallis's pads and he swats the ball away like (stretched simile alert!) a bear dismissing bees as he goes about collecting his honey. \"As a mnemonic, I find irony to be very much like rain on your wedding day. I'm sure other examples also exist.\" Intriguing, Ant Pease. Tell us more.10th over: South Africa 50-1 (target: 222, Smith 18, Kallis 25) [Edges towards exit] So, Oram's coming on to chop down some trees/take a few Saffer wickets, just as Rob prepares to retake his sweaty seat. If someone could Photoshop a picture of Oram as a lumberjack and then send it in, you'd make me very happy. Oram is pretty accurate from the get-go but his last ball is wide and slashed through point for four by Smith. Right, now send your static and feedback to rob.smyth@theguardian.com. I need some lunch.11th over: South Africa 54-1 (target: 222, Smith 20, Kallis 27) Hello boys! Southee forces Kallis to take evasive action with a good bouncer in an over that includes four singles. South Africa are cruising and are going to have to work extremely hard to cock this up.12th over: South Africa 58-1 (target: 222, Smith 22, Kallis 29) Oram galumphs in for some more. It's all a bit futile, and not in the Nathan Barley sense. Four singles from the over. \"Is there anything more disconcerting than filling in a hotel mini-bar form whilst very hungover and seeing that the purchase options include mouthwash and shoe polish,\" weeps Stephen Cottreell. \"For one horrible moment I thought I'd bottomed out. Like Christopher sitting on Ade's dog in the Sopranos.\"13th over: South Africa 60-1 (target: 222, Smith 23, Kallis 30) Two more singles from Southee's over. This is easy for South Africa. Somewhere in a dark corner of my brain, Big Daddy is beating his chest, Tarzan-style, while a baying crowd chant \"EASY! EASY! EASY!\" I do miss Big Daddy. Look at the state of this. \"I'm going to the cinema tomorrow to see Submarine,\" says Louise Wright, mistaking this for Twitter. \"My dad is going with me. It's suddenly occurred to me that with it being a coming-of-age film, it might be full of sex scenes and thus be v embarrassing to watch when accompanied by a parent. Anyone seen it and know whether I've made a dreadful choice of film in that respect, please? If so, suggestions for avoidance tactics would be welcome.\" One of my best friends went to see American Pie with his ma. Imagine.14th over: South Africa 68-1 (target: 222, Smith 28, Kallis 33) The left-arm spinner Luke Woodcock, playing only his third ODI, comes on to bowl. His first ball is a nervous wide half-volley that Smith blitzes through extra cover for four, but the fourth is a brute that spits past Kallis's outside edge. Where did that come from?WICKET! South Africa 69-2 (Smith c sub (How) b Oram 28) Graeme Smith's poor tournament continues with a very soft dismissal. He reached well wide of off stump at a nothing delivery from Jacob Oram and sliced it straight to backward point, where the substitute Jamie How took a smart catch moving to his left.15th over: South Africa 69-2 (target: 222, Kallis 34, de Villiers 0) This is the big partnership, between arguably South Africa's two best batsmen. If New Zealand can winkle out one more then South Africa will be three down. \"I saw Submarine last night,\" says Jos Roberts, mistaking this for Twitter. \"Nothing really to make your parents uncomfortable, other than Paddy Considine with an amazing mullet! Pretty funny though.\"16th over: South Africa 72-2 (target: 222, Kallis 36, de Villiers 1) Three singles from Woodcock's over, which includes a couple of excellent stops from Guptill in the covers. \"When I came of age,\" says Ian Copestake, \"there was no sex involved.\"17th over: South Africa 74-2 (target: 222, Kallis 38, de Villiers 1) Kallis flicks Oram to leg for a couple, the only runs from that over. It's a fairly quiet spell in the match.18th over: South Africa 81-2 (target: 222, Kallis 39, de Villiers 7) Woodcock is having a bad time of it. His first ball is a full toss that de Villiers clips for four, and there are three more singles. South Africa need 131 from 32 overs. It should be a doddle. Should.19th over: South Africa 81-2 (target: 222, Kallis 39, de Villiers 7) Oram bowls a good maiden to de Villiers, so his figures are now 5-1-13-1. \"I've learnt two valuable lessons today,\" says Lizzy Ammon. \"1) Never bet on Graeme Smith 2) don't expect a four-year-old to prefer watching NZ vs SA to watching Star Wars. There was a physical wrestle for the remote. I didn't win.\"20th over: South Africa 87-2 (target: 222, Kallis 41, de Villiers 11) Vettori brings himself on for Woodcock, which has to be the right move. Five from the over, including a very tight two to third man from de Villiers. \"When I first moved to the UK I had trouble grasping your concept of 'irony',\" says Marie Meyer. \"Then I went to Torquay for a weekend because I had heard it described as 'the English Riviera'. I get it now.\"21th over: South Africa 93-2 (target: 222, Kallis 42, de Villiers 16) That is an exquisite stroke from AB de Villiers, a square drive for four from a perfectly good delivery by Oram. Things may change, but for the moment this feels like a totally routine run chase. \"Lizzy Ammon's four-year-old sounds like a Big Daddy in the making,\" says Ian Copestake. \"All he needs to complete his fate is to be called Shirley.\"22nd over: South Africa 97-2 (target: 222, Kallis 45, de Villiers 17) Kallis charges Vettori but is beaten in the flight, and his drive lands just in front of the man running back from mid on. The next ball is fluller and quicker and zips past the outside edge. Very smart bowling from Vettori.23rd over: South Africa 103-2 (target: 222, Kallis 46, de Villiers 22) Another wonderfully timed drive from de Villiers, this time through the covers for four off Southee. He has a disgusting amount of ability. Kallis then survives a token run-out referral after a direct hit from mid on. \"My old English teacher took his wife to see American Pie in the mistaken belief it was American Beauty,\" says Andrew Fraser. \"He told us that he wasn't sure it was quite the classic others claimed it as\u2026\" When I was about 12 my Dad asked me to recommend some films that he could order from his book club thing. I knew he liked cop films, but I got 48 Hours mixed up with 9 1/2 Weeks. I wish I was making that up.24th over: South Africa 108-2 (target: 222, Kallis 47, de Villiers 25) Kallis is slow to set off for a leg bye towards square leg and would probably have been run out by a direct hit from the wicketkeeper Brendon McCullum. Five from Vettori's over. \"There's a scene in Being There where Shirley MacLaine takes Peter Sellers' oft-stated line of 'I like to watch' very literally,\" says Matt Emerson. \"I watched that with my Mum and my Nan when I was about 14...my face could have been used on a Pantone reference chart as a replacement for crimson...\"WICKET! South Africa 108-3 (Kallis c Oram b Southee 47) A fantastic running catch from Jacob Oram gives New Zealand a sniff. Kallis clubbed a mighty pull towards deep midwicket, where Oram appeared from nowhere to take a two-handed catch above his head on the run. That's a brilliant piece of fielding, especially for such a giant man.25th over: South Africa 110-3 (target: 222, de Villiers 26, Duminy 1) Another quick wicket would make this really interesting, because South Africa have a relatively fragile lower order. \"I have a picture of Giant Haystacks in my wallet that I have had for twenty years,\" says David Weston. \"It is torn from a pub quiz sheet. The quiz was in the Johnson Arms public house in Dunkirk, Nottingham. I'll let you see it if you want.\" I like the fact that you don't feel the need to explain this behaviour. After all, keeping a picture of a huge hirsute wrestler in a wallet is precisely what all right-thinking people would do.26th over: South Africa 113-3 (target: 222, de Villiers 28, Duminy 2) Nathan McCullum replaces Vettori, who bowled better than figures of 7-0-29-0 suggest. Three from a quiet over. \"My American inlaws, septuagenarians both, decided to go and see the film Quills (which, for the uninitiated, is about the Marquis de Sade),\" says Richard O'Hagan. \"I think they are still recovering from the experience.\" They are not the only ones.27th over: South Africa 120-3 (target: 222, de Villiers 34, Duminy 3) Duminy drags an attempted pull onto his body off the bowling of Southee; then de Villiers played a stunning on drive for four, through the legs of Duminy at the non-striker's end. He looks in fantastic nick. \"The 48 Hours/9 1/2 weeks confusion is understandable,\" says Dan Smith. \"9 1/2 weeks is a completely unrealistic period for a passionate love affair. While 'Gone in 60 Seconds' turns out to be a film about car theft.\"WICKET! South Africa 121-4 (Duminy b N McCullum 3) Now then. Duminy misses an angled-bat slap at a flighted delivery from McCullum that goes straight on to hit the off stump. That's a hideous shot. Every time you think the game is going away from New Zealand they take a wicket. If they get one more they will arguably be on top.WICKET! South Africa 121-5 (de Villiers run out 35) It's happening. South Africa are doing it again. I don't believe this. New Zealand have got the huge wicket of AB de Villiers, who was called through for a seriously dodgy single to midwicket and was just short of his ground when Brendon McCullum claimed the throw from Guptill and shattered the stumps. It went to the third umpire but New Zealand knew it was out. Before leaving the crease, de Villiers almost kicked off with a couple of New Zealand fielders, presumably because of an overzealous send-off. This is a remarkable turnaround, and that is such a big wicket because de Villiers was in sublime touch.28th over: South Africa 121-5 (target: 222, du Plessis 0, Botha 0) They couldn't. Could they? In fact, what happened with de Villiers was this: a number of New Zealand fielders, including the substitute Kyle Mills, were right in du Plessis's grille, pointing out that he had run out the best player, so de Villiers came over to support du Plessis. A couple of them will get done by the match referee. If they win, they will not care one jot about that. \"Statistics question,\" says Andre Van der Walt. \"Has anyone ever followed OBO when they had the option to watch a match?\" That's not a statistics question. That's a just-how-badly-has-humanity-gone-wrong question.29th over: South Africa 122-5 (target: 222, du Plessis 1, Botha 0) Aggressive captaincy from Daniel Vettori, who brings himself back into the attack. He almost skids a couple of quicker ones through du Plessis, and there's just one from the over. \"Those collars are starting to look a bit tight on the South African jerseys,\" says Mark O'Neil.30th over: South Africa 123-5 (target: 222, du Plessis 2, Botha 0) South Africa's lower order has some handy players, most notably Botha and Peterson, but it's nowhere near the McMillian-Pollock-Klusener vintage. One from McCullum's over. This game is wide open now, and in fact New Zealand are probably marginal favourites. \"I still cringe at the memory of seeing Se7en with my mum when I was just 18,\" says Andrew Banks. \"She overheard me saying I wanted to see it on the phone and decided to treat me despite my protestations that she wouldn't like it. Not sure she's recovered, and sticks almost entirely to Miss Marple nowadays...\"31st over: South Africa 125-5 (target: 222, du Plessis 3, Botha 1) Woodcock replaces Vettori and has a biggish shout for LBW against du Plessis. It was going down leg. Just two from the over, and the requirement is now 97 from 114 balls. \"Unless South Africa can call up a last minute replacement and get their young off-spinner Heimlich in at 8, you'd have to say it looks like they're doing it again,\" says Ant Pease. Honk!32nd over: South Africa 127-5 (target: 222, du Plessis 4, Botha 2) The South African batsmen are just regrouping for now. They look shell-shocked. The last five overs have brought seven runs and two wickets. \"I often OBO whilst watching a game, sometimes even the same game,\" says Richard O'Hagan. \"However, I am ferociously loyal and would never try and OBO/MBM several different sports at once *coughNAYLORcoughcoughcough*\"WICKET! South Africa 128-6 (Botha b Oram 2) This is an astonishing collapse. Botha is bowled by a beautiful leg cutter from Oram that hits the top of off stump. That is a jaffa. South Africa have lost three wickets for eight in six overs, and if they lose this match they are never \u2013 ever \u2013 going to hear the end of it.33rd over: South Africa 128-6 (target: 222, du Plessis 5, Peterson 0) Even before that wicket, one of the South African backroom staff had his head in his hands. Then he started shaking his head sadly. He's completely given up! That's hilarious. He might as well be listening to this. \"I saw Four Weddings and a Funeral with my parents when I was 15,\" says Paul Wakefield. \"The loud sex scene left me utterly mortified, whilst my parents thought it hilarious.\" The scene, your mortification, or both?34th over: South Africa 129-6 (target: 222, du Plessis 6, Peterson 0) Is it still deja vu if it happens again and again? Nathan McCullum is in his element, racing through his overs in little more than a couple of minutes. Only one run from that, which makes it nine from the last seven.WICKET! South Africa 132-7 (Peterson c B McCullum b Oram 0) South Africa have completely gone. Peterson wafts hideously outside off stump and gets a thin inside edge to the keeper. South Africa have lost four wickets for 11 runs in eight never-to-be-forgotten overs.35th over: South Africa 141-7 (target: 222, du Plessis 13, Steyn 5) Steyn touches his first ball to the fine leg boundary and then du Plessis, who has to play his shots, slams a superb boundary through extra cover. South Africa will not believe this is happening to them again. It was supposed to be different this time. They had proved they were a different team by winning Test series in Australia, England and Pakistan. They had the variety in their attack, the experience in their top order. They won the group and got the easiest quarter-final draw. They started the quarter-final brilliantly, calmly controlling it for 75 overs. And then it happened. Like it always bloody happens.36th over: South Africa 142-7 (target: 222, du Plessis 13, Steyn 6) Steyn is a very tough man, an Australian in nature, and he is well capable of hanging around for 10 overs if du Plessis can do the bulk of the scoring. Steyn works the last ball of McCullum's over for a single, the only run from that over. \"I'm contemplating making strangled and spluttering sounds at my South African mate after he took such pleasure in England losing to Ireland,\" says Mike McCarthy. \"Contemplating it, because (a) we'll lose by 200 runs tomorrow and (b) he's a lot harder than me.\"37th over: South Africa 146-7 (target: 222, du Plessis 15, Steyn 7) Luke Woodcock comes back into the attack. His six remaining overs are so important, because he has been NZ's weakest bowler today, and he starts with a wide. Four from the over. New Zealand might have to think about using a sixth bowler, maybe Scott Styris or Jesse Ryder. \"When I went travelling at 18, I stopped off at my great uncle and aunt in Canada,\" says Andrew Fraser. \"Me and my friend convinced my great uncle to join his local video rental store and took out loads of films to while away the Canadian evenings. This seemingly foolproof plan collapsed as badly as the Saffers are when my great aunt joined us for American History... I still sweat when I think back to her reaction to the vigorous sex scene that starts the film. And not in a good way.\"WICKET! South Africa 146-8 (Steyn c Oram b N McCullum 8) What hell kinda shot is that? Steyn was inadvertently monopolising the strike, and the pressure \u2013 dot, dot, dot\u00a0\u2013 got to him when he had a gruesome heave that flew off the edge. Oram, who couldn't stay out of this game if he tried, took a gleeful catch diving forward at backward point.38th over: South Africa 146-8 (target: 222, du Plessis 15, Morkel 0) Nathan McCullum finished with sensational figures of 10-1-24-3. South Africa were 120 for three after 27 overs, you know. I told you New Zealand just needed to stay in the game! And, while people will focus on South Africa, New Zealand have been wonderful. The moment they smelt weakness, they were all over South Africa like a cheap rash. \"It's d\u00e9j\u00e0 vu all over again',\" quotes Daniel Harris. \"Berra explained that this quote originated when he witnessed Mickey Mantle and Roger Maris repeatedly hit back-to-back home runs in the Yankees' seasons in the early 1960s.\"39th over: South Africa 150-8 (target: 222, du Plessis 17, Morkel 1) South Africa have taken the batting Powerplay, a desperate move that presumably means du Plessis is going to go for it. Vettori counters by bringing himself back into the attack. du Plessis square drives for a couple and then drives a single down the ground. Here's a simple email from Rahul Nayyar, which will some up how plenty of folk are feeling: \"Can't stop laughing.\" Then, just in case I miss that email, he follows up with \"ROFL\". You have to feel for South Africa, though. Of all their chokes, this is probably the worst.40th over: South Africa 156-8 (target: 222, du Plessis 22, Morkel 2) du Plessis smears an attempted yorker from Southee down the ground for four. This isn't quite over, not while he is there and not while New Zealand still have five fifth-bowler overs to bowl. South Africa need 66 from 10 overs with two wickets remaining.. As Mark Corrigan says at the start of season four of Peep Show, how the eff has it come to this? \"When New Zealand were scoring slowly and losing wickets, you were full of praise for South Africa's skill and pressure,\" says Andy Fyfe. \"Now it's all about how South Africa are throwing it away. Maybe some respect for NZ is in order? They've stuck with a plan (flawed as it may have been during their innings), backed themselves \u2013 a trait commentators are only too happy to recognise in Australia and England \u2013 and now the pressure they've applied is paying off. There are two teams playing this game...\" Yep, it's a fair cop. Inevitably we focus on South Africa when something like this happens, but New Zealand have been great in the field \u2013 particularly Vettori as captain.41st over: South Africa 161-8 (target: 222, du Plessis 27, Morkel 2) du Plessis turned down a run off the last ball of the previous over, so that he could keep the strike, and he whips Vettori's third ball superbly past mid on for four. Five from the over, and Gary Naylor has just reminded me of this email, sent much earlier in this innings: \"Re: 11th over: 'South Africa are cruising and are going to have to work extremely hard to cock this up'. You really are such an old hand at the OBO game aren't you? Like Glenn McGrath setting up a batsman with five short of a length before the toe-crusher.\"42nd over: South Africa 164-8 (need 58 from 48 balls; du Plessis 29, Morkel 3) Just three singles from Southee's over. That means that du Plessis keeps the strike, but the required rate has risen above seven an over. Meanwhile, Stephen Cottrell has a pop quiz for us, but you don't need to be a hotshot to get the right answer: \"Which C was a 1990 album by the Beautiful South, following their 1989 debut, 'Welcome to the Beautiful South'?\"WICKET! South Africa 172-9 (du Plessis c Southee b Oram 36) It's all over. du Plessis, dropped earlier in the over, rifles Oram low to cover, where Southee takes a good low catch on the edge of the circle. In the commentary box, Mark Nicholas actually starts singing \"Oraaaaaaaaam!\" Seriously, he started singing. Singing. But you can understand why, because Jacob Oram has had an incredible hour and a half in the field and with the ball.43rd over: South Africa 172-9 (need 50 from 42 balls; Morkel 4, Tahir 0) The No11, Imran Tahir, is about as good a batsman as me or you, so don't expect any miracles. This is a mind-blowing collapse. \"Deja vu is illusory, which is presumably what SA are experiencing as they'll think it's all a bad dream,\" says John Starbuck. \"What we have here is serial vu.\"WICKET! South Africa 172 all out (Morkel c sub b Woodcock 4). NEW ZEALAND WIN BY 49 RUNS Morne Morkel clouts Luke Woodcock to Jamie How at long off to spark delirious celebrations in Mirpur. New Zealand cannot believe they have won this game. Nobody can. It's one of the most amazing twists in World Cup history. South Africa were 108 for two and then 121 for three, but they fell apart in a fashion that was astonishing even by their standards. New Zealand were outplayed for 75 overs, yet they stayed in the game and then mauled South Africa when the pressure was on.It's a stunning performance from a team who always overachieve at World Cups, and who will now play in their sixth World Cup semi-final out of ten \u2013 even though this is the first knockout game they have ever won. But, really, today is all about South Africa. Graeme Smith walks onto the field wearing a million-yard stare. You would not believe the puss on him. After four years of almost ceaseless excellence from South Africa in all forms of the game, it is going to take them a long, long time to understand how and why this happened. They probably never will.Thanks for your emails. See you tomorrow for the other quarter-final; I forget who's playing.", "tags": ["Cricket World Cup 2011", "New Zealand cricket team", "South Africa cricket team", "Cricket", "Over by over reports"], "title": "New Zealand v South Africa - as it happened | Rob Smyth"},{"date": "2011-06-27T13:15:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Glen Johnson, a freelance journalist from New Zealand, has been arrested in Yemen.According to the New Zealand Herald, he is being held for allegedly entering the country illegally from Djibouti. Johnson, a contributor to the New York Times and Le Monde, has covered the Middle East for over two years and, according to his parents, had been investigating a people-smuggling ring for a British magazine.They also told the Herald they believed their son had not been harmed and was currently in a jail in Lahj province. This is not Johnson's first encounter with the Yemeni authorities. He visited Yemen last year to report on female sexual abuse and left after the country gave him 36 hours to depart.He was also arrested four times and beaten once in Egypt while covering the protests earlier this year. In 2011, press freedom violations have soared in Yemen since violent clashes began between opposition forces and the government. There have been a catalogue of incidents.During May alone, several journalists were injured when military forces attacked a private satellite broadcaster Suhail TV. Reporter Farooq al-Kamali was shot in the leg two while covering a gun battle between loyalist troops and members of the Hashid tribal federation. Armed men raided the offices of independent daily newspaper Al-Oula, where trainee editor Hasaan Saeed Hasaan was stabbed 10 times.Newspaper reporter Ibraheem al-Ba'adani was attacked in the city of Ibb by opposition forces after being accused of working for the pro-government news agency; on the same day, journalist Abdel Rahman Bajunaid was found stabbed to death in the city of Aden. Bajunaid was the second journalist killed in Yemen in 2011 following the March shooting death of Al-Masdar reporter Jamal Ahmed al-Sharabi. International Press Institute press freedom manager Anthony Mills said: \"We urge the Yemeni authorities to release Glen Johnson, to allow full access to the country for foreign correspondents, and to ensure that local Yemeni journalists are not obliged to operate in a climate of fear.\" Sources: International Press Institute/New Zealand Herald", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Yemen", "Press freedom", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "New Zealand", "New York Times", "Le Monde", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand journalist detained in Yemen"},{"date": "2011-06-27T13:15:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Glen Johnson, a freelance journalist from New Zealand, has been arrested in Yemen.According to the New Zealand Herald, he is being held for allegedly entering the country illegally from Djibouti. Johnson, a contributor to the New York Times and Le Monde, has covered the Middle East for over two years and, according to his parents, had been investigating a people-smuggling ring for a British magazine.They also told the Herald they believed their son had not been harmed and was currently in a jail in Lahj province. This is not Johnson's first encounter with the Yemeni authorities. He visited Yemen last year to report on female sexual abuse and left after the country gave him 36 hours to depart.He was also arrested four times and beaten once in Egypt while covering the protests earlier this year. In 2011, press freedom violations have soared in Yemen since violent clashes began between opposition forces and the government. There have been a catalogue of incidents.During May alone, several journalists were injured when military forces attacked a private satellite broadcaster Suhail TV. Reporter Farooq al-Kamali was shot in the leg two while covering a gun battle between loyalist troops and members of the Hashid tribal federation. Armed men raided the offices of independent daily newspaper Al-Oula, where trainee editor Hasaan Saeed Hasaan was stabbed 10 times.Newspaper reporter Ibraheem al-Ba'adani was attacked in the city of Ibb by opposition forces after being accused of working for the pro-government news agency; on the same day, journalist Abdel Rahman Bajunaid was found stabbed to death in the city of Aden. Bajunaid was the second journalist killed in Yemen in 2011 following the March shooting death of Al-Masdar reporter Jamal Ahmed al-Sharabi. International Press Institute press freedom manager Anthony Mills said: \"We urge the Yemeni authorities to release Glen Johnson, to allow full access to the country for foreign correspondents, and to ensure that local Yemeni journalists are not obliged to operate in a climate of fear.\" Sources: International Press Institute/New Zealand Herald", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Yemen", "Press freedom", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "New Zealand", "New York Times", "Le Monde", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand journalist detained in Yemen"},{"date": "2011-06-06T11:08:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "With Christchurch unable to host Rugby World Cup (rugbyworldcup.com) matches after February's earthquake, the spotlight is on Dunedin: the South Island's second city will now host three of England's four group games. Eighteenth-century Scottish settlers built the city in Edinburgh's image, and it was boosted by a goldrush in the 19th century. Its university (otago.ac.nz) is the oldest in New Zealand and one of the most prestigious, lending the city a multicultural, youthful air. Dunedin's vibrant, compact centre is surrounded by fantastic countryside, great beaches and teeming wildlife.Customhouse (18 Fryatt Street, thecustomhouse.co.nz) is an airy, upmarket cafe-bar-restaurant on the harbour, housed in \u2013 yep \u2013 the former custom house. Potpourri (97 Stuart Street) is good for an afternoon pick-me-up \u2013 try its delicious apple crumble muffins. George Street is full of cafes, including Governors at No 438. A Dunedin institution, it has been catering for hungover students since 1977 and makes the best cheese rolls around. These Dunedin delicacies comprising bread slathered with a secret cheese recipe (rumour has it onion soup mix is involved), folded up, grilled, then spread with butter and served with a cup of tea.Strictly Coffee (23 Bath Street, strictlycoffee.co.nz) is one of Dunedin's coolest cafes. It has a retro vibe with lots of red and black leather, and a cute courtyard garden. Locals will drink six \"long blacks\" in one sitting \u2013 not to be attempted if you're unused to New Zealand's strong coffee.Technique (Harbour Terrace, +64 3 479 6172, for bookings email bookings@op.ac.nz) is the training restaurant for Otago Polytechnic, where you can enjoy a tasting menu for under \u00a320 \u2013 bargain. Paasha (31 St Andrew Street, paasha.co.nz) is best for Turkish food, while the student area is full of great sushi joints. If you want to splash out, go to Plato (2 Birch Street, platocafe.co.nz). Ignore the menus on the table and choose from the seafood on the blackboard. I had paua patties (abalone, the surprisingly tasty slug of the sea), squeaky fresh tuna on a herb risotto, and liquorice and five-spice ice-cream with rhubarb compote. Collectors' kitsch lines the room \u2013 and keep an eye out for sporting superstars: All Blacks captain Richie McCaw was on the next table.Albar (135 Stuart Street) was originally Central Bar \u2013 allegedly the first five letters fell off and the new name stuck \u2013 and it reflects Dunedin's Scottish heritage, serving whisky and haggis. Inch Bar (8 Bank Street) has a good selection of beers, including local brew Emerson's on tap. Pequeno (50 Princes Street, pequeno.co.nz) is a hidden gem behind the Savoy building. Find it down a graffiti'd alley off Moray Place \u2013 belying the insalubrious surroundings, it's a classy joint serving cocktails and tapas. Lower Stuart Street has plenty of restaurants and bars, including hip hangout Carousel at No 141 (carouselbar.co.nz). Also look out for anywhere serving Green Man (greenmanbrewery.co.nz), a local, award-winning organic beer.For backpackers, Merrin recommends On Top (12 Filleul Street, (+64 3 477 6121, ontopbackpackers.co.nz, dorm beds from \u00a313); clean modern doubles at LivingSpace (192 Castle Street, +64 3 951 5000, dud.livingspace.net, from \u00a332 a night,); and self-catering flats at Quest Dunedin (333 Cumberland Street, +61 3 9645 8357, questapartments.co.nz, from \u00a366 a night).James suggests the Tourist Court Cottages, a 15-minute walk from the centre (+64 3 477 4270, motel-accommodation-dunedin.co.nz, from \u00a349 a night). More adventurous visitors might want to try dormitory accommodation at The Lodge on Dunedin's Quarantine Island, where new arrivals were contained in the 19th century. (+64 3 478 0874, theisland.org.nz, suggested donation \u00a37 a night).On the Otago peninsula, Larnach Castle (+64 3 476 1616, larnachcastle.co.nz) has lodgings to suit three budgets: The Stables (cheapish), Larnach Lodge (mid-range) and the new Camp Estate (very expensive). For a real treat, stay at the St Clair Beach Resort (+64 3 456 0555, stclairbeachresort.com, doubles from \u00a396), a new luxury hotel in a swanky suburb south-west of the centre. It was the best place I stayed in New Zealand by a big margin.Dunedin has a vibrant live music scene (see dunedinmusic.com). Logan Park, the university sports ground just across the road from the new rugby stadium, hosts festivals and outdoor gigs. Re:Fuel (640 Cumberland St), a cafe/bar on campus often has jazz by local musicians. Also try tiny Mou Very (357 George Street), upstairs at the Captain Cook Tavern (354 Great King Street); and the Chicks Hotel (2 Mount Street) in bohemian Port Chalmers. Ash & the Matadors are an up-and-coming local band.Moray Place is home to a cluster of art galleries, such as Temple (templegallery.co.nz) and Blue Oyster (blueoyster.org.nz), while Gallery De Novo (gallerydenovo.co.nz) on Stuart Street) displays a changing line-up of New Zealand artists.You're spoilt for lovely beaches in Dunedin: St Clair, St Kilda, Black Head, Brighton \u2026 But perhaps the most magical of all is Tunnel Beach, a few kilometres south-west of the city. In the 1870s John Cargill, a local bigwig, blasted a tunnel through the cliff so that his family could bathe in privacy. A steep grassy track leads to the tunnel, which has 72 stone steps down to the beach. The stretch of golden sand is flanked on three sides by sheer, sea-smoothed cliffs with natural caves and rock arches. Legend has it that Cargill's daughter drowned there, so he paid a high price for his piece of paradise. Check the tides before you go and avoid lambing season, when the track is closed.The major wildlife draw around Dunedin is the Otago Peninsula (otago-peninsula.co.nz). I took a Monarch boat trip (wildlife.co.nz) to the Royal Albatross Colony at Taiaroa Head, the birds' only mainland breeding colony in the world.Also on the peninsula I visited Nature's Wonders (natureswonders.co.nz), a family-run conservation project. We zoomed around on all-terrain Argo vehicles, spotting dozens of New Zealand fur seals and their playful pups, and even a couple of rare yellow-eyed penguins.To the north, the Taieri Gorge Railway (+64 3 477 4449, taieri.co.nz) offers a relaxing journey through spectacular scenery.Remaining tickets for the 2011 Rugby World Cup go on sale on 4 July at tickets.rugbyworldcup.com. For further information about New Zealand and the world cup, go to newzealand.com/rugby. The Real New Zealand Festival (realnzfestival.com) will feature more than 1,000 cultural events during the tournament.Emirates (0844 800277, emirates.com/uk) flies to Auckland and Christchurch daily from Heathrow, Gatwick, Manchester, Birmingham, Glasgow and Newcastle from \u00a3950 return.\u2022 James Hacon is a local tourist consultant (twitter.com/jameshacon), and Merrin Bath organises Dunedin's annual fashion week (idfashion.co.nz)", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "City breaks", "Rugby World Cup 2011", "Australasia holidays", "Food and drink", "Bars and clubs", "Wildlife holidays", "Hotels", "Hostels", "Bed and breakfasts", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Rugby World Cup"], "title": "New Zealand Rugby World Cup cities: Dunedin"},{"date": "2011-06-27T13:15:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Glen Johnson, a freelance journalist from New Zealand, has been arrested in Yemen.According to the New Zealand Herald, he is being held for allegedly entering the country illegally from Djibouti. Johnson, a contributor to the New York Times and Le Monde, has covered the Middle East for over two years and, according to his parents, had been investigating a people-smuggling ring for a British magazine.They also told the Herald they believed their son had not been harmed and was currently in a jail in Lahj province. This is not Johnson's first encounter with the Yemeni authorities. He visited Yemen last year to report on female sexual abuse and left after the country gave him 36 hours to depart.He was also arrested four times and beaten once in Egypt while covering the protests earlier this year. In 2011, press freedom violations have soared in Yemen since violent clashes began between opposition forces and the government. There have been a catalogue of incidents.During May alone, several journalists were injured when military forces attacked a private satellite broadcaster Suhail TV. Reporter Farooq al-Kamali was shot in the leg two while covering a gun battle between loyalist troops and members of the Hashid tribal federation. Armed men raided the offices of independent daily newspaper Al-Oula, where trainee editor Hasaan Saeed Hasaan was stabbed 10 times.Newspaper reporter Ibraheem al-Ba'adani was attacked in the city of Ibb by opposition forces after being accused of working for the pro-government news agency; on the same day, journalist Abdel Rahman Bajunaid was found stabbed to death in the city of Aden. Bajunaid was the second journalist killed in Yemen in 2011 following the March shooting death of Al-Masdar reporter Jamal Ahmed al-Sharabi. International Press Institute press freedom manager Anthony Mills said: \"We urge the Yemeni authorities to release Glen Johnson, to allow full access to the country for foreign correspondents, and to ensure that local Yemeni journalists are not obliged to operate in a climate of fear.\" Sources: International Press Institute/New Zealand Herald", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Yemen", "Press freedom", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "New Zealand", "New York Times", "Le Monde", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand journalist detained in Yemen"},{"date": "2011-06-06T11:08:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "With Christchurch unable to host Rugby World Cup (rugbyworldcup.com) matches after February's earthquake, the spotlight is on Dunedin: the South Island's second city will now host three of England's four group games. Eighteenth-century Scottish settlers built the city in Edinburgh's image, and it was boosted by a goldrush in the 19th century. Its university (otago.ac.nz) is the oldest in New Zealand and one of the most prestigious, lending the city a multicultural, youthful air. Dunedin's vibrant, compact centre is surrounded by fantastic countryside, great beaches and teeming wildlife.Customhouse (18 Fryatt Street, thecustomhouse.co.nz) is an airy, upmarket cafe-bar-restaurant on the harbour, housed in \u2013 yep \u2013 the former custom house. Potpourri (97 Stuart Street) is good for an afternoon pick-me-up \u2013 try its delicious apple crumble muffins. George Street is full of cafes, including Governors at No 438. A Dunedin institution, it has been catering for hungover students since 1977 and makes the best cheese rolls around. These Dunedin delicacies comprising bread slathered with a secret cheese recipe (rumour has it onion soup mix is involved), folded up, grilled, then spread with butter and served with a cup of tea.Strictly Coffee (23 Bath Street, strictlycoffee.co.nz) is one of Dunedin's coolest cafes. It has a retro vibe with lots of red and black leather, and a cute courtyard garden. Locals will drink six \"long blacks\" in one sitting \u2013 not to be attempted if you're unused to New Zealand's strong coffee.Technique (Harbour Terrace, +64 3 479 6172, for bookings email bookings@op.ac.nz) is the training restaurant for Otago Polytechnic, where you can enjoy a tasting menu for under \u00a320 \u2013 bargain. Paasha (31 St Andrew Street, paasha.co.nz) is best for Turkish food, while the student area is full of great sushi joints. If you want to splash out, go to Plato (2 Birch Street, platocafe.co.nz). Ignore the menus on the table and choose from the seafood on the blackboard. I had paua patties (abalone, the surprisingly tasty slug of the sea), squeaky fresh tuna on a herb risotto, and liquorice and five-spice ice-cream with rhubarb compote. Collectors' kitsch lines the room \u2013 and keep an eye out for sporting superstars: All Blacks captain Richie McCaw was on the next table.Albar (135 Stuart Street) was originally Central Bar \u2013 allegedly the first five letters fell off and the new name stuck \u2013 and it reflects Dunedin's Scottish heritage, serving whisky and haggis. Inch Bar (8 Bank Street) has a good selection of beers, including local brew Emerson's on tap. Pequeno (50 Princes Street, pequeno.co.nz) is a hidden gem behind the Savoy building. Find it down a graffiti'd alley off Moray Place \u2013 belying the insalubrious surroundings, it's a classy joint serving cocktails and tapas. Lower Stuart Street has plenty of restaurants and bars, including hip hangout Carousel at No 141 (carouselbar.co.nz). Also look out for anywhere serving Green Man (greenmanbrewery.co.nz), a local, award-winning organic beer.For backpackers, Merrin recommends On Top (12 Filleul Street, (+64 3 477 6121, ontopbackpackers.co.nz, dorm beds from \u00a313); clean modern doubles at LivingSpace (192 Castle Street, +64 3 951 5000, dud.livingspace.net, from \u00a332 a night,); and self-catering flats at Quest Dunedin (333 Cumberland Street, +61 3 9645 8357, questapartments.co.nz, from \u00a366 a night).James suggests the Tourist Court Cottages, a 15-minute walk from the centre (+64 3 477 4270, motel-accommodation-dunedin.co.nz, from \u00a349 a night). More adventurous visitors might want to try dormitory accommodation at The Lodge on Dunedin's Quarantine Island, where new arrivals were contained in the 19th century. (+64 3 478 0874, theisland.org.nz, suggested donation \u00a37 a night).On the Otago peninsula, Larnach Castle (+64 3 476 1616, larnachcastle.co.nz) has lodgings to suit three budgets: The Stables (cheapish), Larnach Lodge (mid-range) and the new Camp Estate (very expensive). For a real treat, stay at the St Clair Beach Resort (+64 3 456 0555, stclairbeachresort.com, doubles from \u00a396), a new luxury hotel in a swanky suburb south-west of the centre. It was the best place I stayed in New Zealand by a big margin.Dunedin has a vibrant live music scene (see dunedinmusic.com). Logan Park, the university sports ground just across the road from the new rugby stadium, hosts festivals and outdoor gigs. Re:Fuel (640 Cumberland St), a cafe/bar on campus often has jazz by local musicians. Also try tiny Mou Very (357 George Street), upstairs at the Captain Cook Tavern (354 Great King Street); and the Chicks Hotel (2 Mount Street) in bohemian Port Chalmers. Ash & the Matadors are an up-and-coming local band.Moray Place is home to a cluster of art galleries, such as Temple (templegallery.co.nz) and Blue Oyster (blueoyster.org.nz), while Gallery De Novo (gallerydenovo.co.nz) on Stuart Street) displays a changing line-up of New Zealand artists.You're spoilt for lovely beaches in Dunedin: St Clair, St Kilda, Black Head, Brighton \u2026 But perhaps the most magical of all is Tunnel Beach, a few kilometres south-west of the city. In the 1870s John Cargill, a local bigwig, blasted a tunnel through the cliff so that his family could bathe in privacy. A steep grassy track leads to the tunnel, which has 72 stone steps down to the beach. The stretch of golden sand is flanked on three sides by sheer, sea-smoothed cliffs with natural caves and rock arches. Legend has it that Cargill's daughter drowned there, so he paid a high price for his piece of paradise. Check the tides before you go and avoid lambing season, when the track is closed.The major wildlife draw around Dunedin is the Otago Peninsula (otago-peninsula.co.nz). I took a Monarch boat trip (wildlife.co.nz) to the Royal Albatross Colony at Taiaroa Head, the birds' only mainland breeding colony in the world.Also on the peninsula I visited Nature's Wonders (natureswonders.co.nz), a family-run conservation project. We zoomed around on all-terrain Argo vehicles, spotting dozens of New Zealand fur seals and their playful pups, and even a couple of rare yellow-eyed penguins.To the north, the Taieri Gorge Railway (+64 3 477 4449, taieri.co.nz) offers a relaxing journey through spectacular scenery.Remaining tickets for the 2011 Rugby World Cup go on sale on 4 July at tickets.rugbyworldcup.com. For further information about New Zealand and the world cup, go to newzealand.com/rugby. The Real New Zealand Festival (realnzfestival.com) will feature more than 1,000 cultural events during the tournament.Emirates (0844 800277, emirates.com/uk) flies to Auckland and Christchurch daily from Heathrow, Gatwick, Manchester, Birmingham, Glasgow and Newcastle from \u00a3950 return.\u2022 James Hacon is a local tourist consultant (twitter.com/jameshacon), and Merrin Bath organises Dunedin's annual fashion week (idfashion.co.nz)", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "City breaks", "Rugby World Cup 2011", "Australasia holidays", "Food and drink", "Bars and clubs", "Wildlife holidays", "Hotels", "Hostels", "Bed and breakfasts", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Rugby World Cup"], "title": "New Zealand Rugby World Cup cities: Dunedin"},{"date": "2011-06-29T13:01:26Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "It has wandered thousands of miles off course, ending up confused, lost and in hospital, but a young emperor penguin that reached New Zealand must now find its own way home.Wildlife officials have decided to help the penguin \u2013 dubbed Happy Feet after the 2006 animated film \u2013 find its way back to its Antarctic home 2,000 miles from New Zealand's North Island, but stopped short of giving it a lift all the way.The bird, which is 3ft (90cm) tall, will be taken part of the way home and freed into the Southern Ocean, south-east of New Zealand, and will be expected to swim the rest of the way.When Happy Feet was found on Peka Peka beach last week, it was the first time in 44 years the species has been sighted in New Zealand. Since then, wildlife experts \u2013 who are not sure if Happy Feet is male or female \u2013 have debated the best way to get the bird home.An initial suggestion of taking the penguin all the way back to the Antarctic was dismissed because of logistical difficulties and fears Happy Feet could have picked up infections while in New Zealand, which it could pass on to other penguins.An advisory group decided it would give the hapless penguin a helping hand, but it would have to do the bulk of the work. \"The reason for not returning the penguin directly to Antarctica is that emperor penguins of this age are usually found north of Antarctica on pack ice and in the open ocean,\" Peter Simpson, the department's biodiversity spokesman, said.Instead, it will be released on the northern edge of the region where young emperor penguins are known to live. Simpson was unsure how far the penguin would have to swim before getting home.It has been a rough ride for the unfortunate penguin. After being rescued by marine experts, it had to have an operation to remove sand from its stomach, after apparently mistaking it for snow which penguins eat to hydrate themselves in winter. The bird has been recovering at Wellington zoo after one of New Zealand's leading surgeons, more used to performing the operation on humans, carried out an endoscopy, flushing its stomach clear of sand and driftwood.The penguin has been resting in a private, airconditioned room filled with large blocks of ice and dining on the finest fish slurry. The zoo has said that the penguin will not be taken home before it recovers. Zoo spokeswoman Kate Baker said: \"The plan is to let him rest, feed him and x-ray him again on Friday or Saturday to see how much sand has passed.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Animals", "Animal welfare", "Antarctica", "Animal behaviour", "Science", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Lost emperor 'Happy Feet' must swim home from New Zealand"},{"date": "2011-06-27T13:15:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Glen Johnson, a freelance journalist from New Zealand, has been arrested in Yemen.According to the New Zealand Herald, he is being held for allegedly entering the country illegally from Djibouti. Johnson, a contributor to the New York Times and Le Monde, has covered the Middle East for over two years and, according to his parents, had been investigating a people-smuggling ring for a British magazine.They also told the Herald they believed their son had not been harmed and was currently in a jail in Lahj province. This is not Johnson's first encounter with the Yemeni authorities. He visited Yemen last year to report on female sexual abuse and left after the country gave him 36 hours to depart.He was also arrested four times and beaten once in Egypt while covering the protests earlier this year. In 2011, press freedom violations have soared in Yemen since violent clashes began between opposition forces and the government. There have been a catalogue of incidents.During May alone, several journalists were injured when military forces attacked a private satellite broadcaster Suhail TV. Reporter Farooq al-Kamali was shot in the leg two while covering a gun battle between loyalist troops and members of the Hashid tribal federation. Armed men raided the offices of independent daily newspaper Al-Oula, where trainee editor Hasaan Saeed Hasaan was stabbed 10 times.Newspaper reporter Ibraheem al-Ba'adani was attacked in the city of Ibb by opposition forces after being accused of working for the pro-government news agency; on the same day, journalist Abdel Rahman Bajunaid was found stabbed to death in the city of Aden. Bajunaid was the second journalist killed in Yemen in 2011 following the March shooting death of Al-Masdar reporter Jamal Ahmed al-Sharabi. International Press Institute press freedom manager Anthony Mills said: \"We urge the Yemeni authorities to release Glen Johnson, to allow full access to the country for foreign correspondents, and to ensure that local Yemeni journalists are not obliged to operate in a climate of fear.\" Sources: International Press Institute/New Zealand Herald", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Yemen", "Press freedom", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "New Zealand", "New York Times", "Le Monde", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand journalist detained in Yemen"},{"date": "2011-06-06T11:08:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "With Christchurch unable to host Rugby World Cup (rugbyworldcup.com) matches after February's earthquake, the spotlight is on Dunedin: the South Island's second city will now host three of England's four group games. Eighteenth-century Scottish settlers built the city in Edinburgh's image, and it was boosted by a goldrush in the 19th century. Its university (otago.ac.nz) is the oldest in New Zealand and one of the most prestigious, lending the city a multicultural, youthful air. Dunedin's vibrant, compact centre is surrounded by fantastic countryside, great beaches and teeming wildlife.Customhouse (18 Fryatt Street, thecustomhouse.co.nz) is an airy, upmarket cafe-bar-restaurant on the harbour, housed in \u2013 yep \u2013 the former custom house. Potpourri (97 Stuart Street) is good for an afternoon pick-me-up \u2013 try its delicious apple crumble muffins. George Street is full of cafes, including Governors at No 438. A Dunedin institution, it has been catering for hungover students since 1977 and makes the best cheese rolls around. These Dunedin delicacies comprising bread slathered with a secret cheese recipe (rumour has it onion soup mix is involved), folded up, grilled, then spread with butter and served with a cup of tea.Strictly Coffee (23 Bath Street, strictlycoffee.co.nz) is one of Dunedin's coolest cafes. It has a retro vibe with lots of red and black leather, and a cute courtyard garden. Locals will drink six \"long blacks\" in one sitting \u2013 not to be attempted if you're unused to New Zealand's strong coffee.Technique (Harbour Terrace, +64 3 479 6172, for bookings email bookings@op.ac.nz) is the training restaurant for Otago Polytechnic, where you can enjoy a tasting menu for under \u00a320 \u2013 bargain. Paasha (31 St Andrew Street, paasha.co.nz) is best for Turkish food, while the student area is full of great sushi joints. If you want to splash out, go to Plato (2 Birch Street, platocafe.co.nz). Ignore the menus on the table and choose from the seafood on the blackboard. I had paua patties (abalone, the surprisingly tasty slug of the sea), squeaky fresh tuna on a herb risotto, and liquorice and five-spice ice-cream with rhubarb compote. Collectors' kitsch lines the room \u2013 and keep an eye out for sporting superstars: All Blacks captain Richie McCaw was on the next table.Albar (135 Stuart Street) was originally Central Bar \u2013 allegedly the first five letters fell off and the new name stuck \u2013 and it reflects Dunedin's Scottish heritage, serving whisky and haggis. Inch Bar (8 Bank Street) has a good selection of beers, including local brew Emerson's on tap. Pequeno (50 Princes Street, pequeno.co.nz) is a hidden gem behind the Savoy building. Find it down a graffiti'd alley off Moray Place \u2013 belying the insalubrious surroundings, it's a classy joint serving cocktails and tapas. Lower Stuart Street has plenty of restaurants and bars, including hip hangout Carousel at No 141 (carouselbar.co.nz). Also look out for anywhere serving Green Man (greenmanbrewery.co.nz), a local, award-winning organic beer.For backpackers, Merrin recommends On Top (12 Filleul Street, (+64 3 477 6121, ontopbackpackers.co.nz, dorm beds from \u00a313); clean modern doubles at LivingSpace (192 Castle Street, +64 3 951 5000, dud.livingspace.net, from \u00a332 a night,); and self-catering flats at Quest Dunedin (333 Cumberland Street, +61 3 9645 8357, questapartments.co.nz, from \u00a366 a night).James suggests the Tourist Court Cottages, a 15-minute walk from the centre (+64 3 477 4270, motel-accommodation-dunedin.co.nz, from \u00a349 a night). More adventurous visitors might want to try dormitory accommodation at The Lodge on Dunedin's Quarantine Island, where new arrivals were contained in the 19th century. (+64 3 478 0874, theisland.org.nz, suggested donation \u00a37 a night).On the Otago peninsula, Larnach Castle (+64 3 476 1616, larnachcastle.co.nz) has lodgings to suit three budgets: The Stables (cheapish), Larnach Lodge (mid-range) and the new Camp Estate (very expensive). For a real treat, stay at the St Clair Beach Resort (+64 3 456 0555, stclairbeachresort.com, doubles from \u00a396), a new luxury hotel in a swanky suburb south-west of the centre. It was the best place I stayed in New Zealand by a big margin.Dunedin has a vibrant live music scene (see dunedinmusic.com). Logan Park, the university sports ground just across the road from the new rugby stadium, hosts festivals and outdoor gigs. Re:Fuel (640 Cumberland St), a cafe/bar on campus often has jazz by local musicians. Also try tiny Mou Very (357 George Street), upstairs at the Captain Cook Tavern (354 Great King Street); and the Chicks Hotel (2 Mount Street) in bohemian Port Chalmers. Ash & the Matadors are an up-and-coming local band.Moray Place is home to a cluster of art galleries, such as Temple (templegallery.co.nz) and Blue Oyster (blueoyster.org.nz), while Gallery De Novo (gallerydenovo.co.nz) on Stuart Street) displays a changing line-up of New Zealand artists.You're spoilt for lovely beaches in Dunedin: St Clair, St Kilda, Black Head, Brighton \u2026 But perhaps the most magical of all is Tunnel Beach, a few kilometres south-west of the city. In the 1870s John Cargill, a local bigwig, blasted a tunnel through the cliff so that his family could bathe in privacy. A steep grassy track leads to the tunnel, which has 72 stone steps down to the beach. The stretch of golden sand is flanked on three sides by sheer, sea-smoothed cliffs with natural caves and rock arches. Legend has it that Cargill's daughter drowned there, so he paid a high price for his piece of paradise. Check the tides before you go and avoid lambing season, when the track is closed.The major wildlife draw around Dunedin is the Otago Peninsula (otago-peninsula.co.nz). I took a Monarch boat trip (wildlife.co.nz) to the Royal Albatross Colony at Taiaroa Head, the birds' only mainland breeding colony in the world.Also on the peninsula I visited Nature's Wonders (natureswonders.co.nz), a family-run conservation project. We zoomed around on all-terrain Argo vehicles, spotting dozens of New Zealand fur seals and their playful pups, and even a couple of rare yellow-eyed penguins.To the north, the Taieri Gorge Railway (+64 3 477 4449, taieri.co.nz) offers a relaxing journey through spectacular scenery.Remaining tickets for the 2011 Rugby World Cup go on sale on 4 July at tickets.rugbyworldcup.com. For further information about New Zealand and the world cup, go to newzealand.com/rugby. The Real New Zealand Festival (realnzfestival.com) will feature more than 1,000 cultural events during the tournament.Emirates (0844 800277, emirates.com/uk) flies to Auckland and Christchurch daily from Heathrow, Gatwick, Manchester, Birmingham, Glasgow and Newcastle from \u00a3950 return.\u2022 James Hacon is a local tourist consultant (twitter.com/jameshacon), and Merrin Bath organises Dunedin's annual fashion week (idfashion.co.nz)", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "City breaks", "Rugby World Cup 2011", "Australasia holidays", "Food and drink", "Bars and clubs", "Wildlife holidays", "Hotels", "Hostels", "Bed and breakfasts", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Rugby World Cup"], "title": "New Zealand Rugby World Cup cities: Dunedin"},{"date": "2011-06-29T13:01:26Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "It has wandered thousands of miles off course, ending up confused, lost and in hospital, but a young emperor penguin that reached New Zealand must now find its own way home.Wildlife officials have decided to help the penguin \u2013 dubbed Happy Feet after the 2006 animated film \u2013 find its way back to its Antarctic home 2,000 miles from New Zealand's North Island, but stopped short of giving it a lift all the way.The bird, which is 3ft (90cm) tall, will be taken part of the way home and freed into the Southern Ocean, south-east of New Zealand, and will be expected to swim the rest of the way.When Happy Feet was found on Peka Peka beach last week, it was the first time in 44 years the species has been sighted in New Zealand. Since then, wildlife experts \u2013 who are not sure if Happy Feet is male or female \u2013 have debated the best way to get the bird home.An initial suggestion of taking the penguin all the way back to the Antarctic was dismissed because of logistical difficulties and fears Happy Feet could have picked up infections while in New Zealand, which it could pass on to other penguins.An advisory group decided it would give the hapless penguin a helping hand, but it would have to do the bulk of the work. \"The reason for not returning the penguin directly to Antarctica is that emperor penguins of this age are usually found north of Antarctica on pack ice and in the open ocean,\" Peter Simpson, the department's biodiversity spokesman, said.Instead, it will be released on the northern edge of the region where young emperor penguins are known to live. Simpson was unsure how far the penguin would have to swim before getting home.It has been a rough ride for the unfortunate penguin. After being rescued by marine experts, it had to have an operation to remove sand from its stomach, after apparently mistaking it for snow which penguins eat to hydrate themselves in winter. The bird has been recovering at Wellington zoo after one of New Zealand's leading surgeons, more used to performing the operation on humans, carried out an endoscopy, flushing its stomach clear of sand and driftwood.The penguin has been resting in a private, airconditioned room filled with large blocks of ice and dining on the finest fish slurry. The zoo has said that the penguin will not be taken home before it recovers. Zoo spokeswoman Kate Baker said: \"The plan is to let him rest, feed him and x-ray him again on Friday or Saturday to see how much sand has passed.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Animals", "Animal welfare", "Antarctica", "Animal behaviour", "Science", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Lost emperor 'Happy Feet' must swim home from New Zealand"},{"date": "2011-06-08T10:58:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A visitor to New Zealand's biggest city is in danger of being disappointed: Auckland lacks the immediate buzz of Wellington or the laid-back charm of Dunedin. But while Auckland's centre is a little underwhelming, there is plenty of life in this city - and it's all in the suburbs. Food writer Simon Farrell-Green (eatherenow.co.nz) took me on a tour of the best bitsPonsonby is where Auckland's well-heeled creatives hang out, and as such it's not for everybody (my friends from down-to-earth Hamilton refer to it as \"Ponsnobby\"). But for those that don't mind drinking coffee with yummy mummies and their ilk, it's full of great cafes. Try Good One (42 Douglas St, +64 9 360 5040), a locals' haunt serving delicious rhubarb and custard muffins.Shed 5 is a fantastically offbeat cafe-cum-motorbike-showroom in Rhubarb Lane (victoriaquarter.wordpress.com), a quirky development in a former bus depot not far from the centre. When we dropped in, classic cars awaiting auction were parked among the tables, just in case anyone fancied a Ferrari with their flat white.Little & Friday (43c Eversleigh Rd, Takapuna, +64 9 489 8527) is another oddity: a gorgeous modern cafe, slap-bang in the middle of unfashionable suburbia. Elderly couples sit alongside kids with skinny jeans and enormous afros, united by their love for the amazing sausage rolls.Golden Dawn (134 Ponsonby Road) is the bar of the moment on Ponsonby Road. There's no signage and the windows are papered over, making it a magnet for the cool crowd.Tyler St Garage (120 Quay Street) is a new rooftop bar near the centre, on the edge of the Britomart area. This district was dilapidated for years but is now being sensitively developed to protect its heritage buildings. The bars, farmers' markets and festivals springing up there are making it a new city hotspot.North Wharf (waterfrontauckland.co.nz) is a new waterside development that should be finished in time for the Rugby World Cup and will house bars, restaurants and galleries. It is hoped that it will be an edgier version of the Viaduct (viaduct.co.nz), a still popular but rather soulless \u2013 and expensive \u2013 harbour area that was revamped for the America's Cup in 2000.Scruffy K' Road is grittier than Ponsonby, and a perennial favourite with the local hipsters. We went to Coco's Cantina (376 Karangahape Rd, +64 9 300 7582, cocoscantina.co.nz), a loud and casual local restaurant, for lamb and feta terrine followed by superb steaks with anchovy butter.Auckland is home to some fantastic Asian restaurants. Simon recommends Ichiban Ramen (17 Albert Street, +64 9 303 4372), a hole-in-wall noodle bar; Mekong Vietnamese (106 Ponsonby Road) for the best pho (beef noodle soup); and Grand Harbour (Viaduct Harbour, +64 9 357 6889, grandharbour.co.nz) for top yum cha (dim sum).Mexican Specialities (5-92 Marua Road, Ellerslie, +64 9 580 2497, mexicanspecialities.co.nz) only opens for lunch, and only Thursday-Saturday, but serves very fresh and authentic Mexican food. Dida's (glengarry.co.nz) started life as a wine shop and has now expanded to serve tapas-style food in two swish suburbs, Herne Bay (54 Jervois Road, Herne Bay, +64 9 376 2813) and Devenport (54 Victoria Road, Devonport, +64 9 445 1392).The Auckland branch of Base Backpackers (from \u00a39pp for a shared dorm, 229 Queens St, stayatbase.com) is a reliable choice for cheap, central accommodation. Jucy Hotel (doubles from \u00a335, 62 Emily Place, jucyhotel.com) is a good budget alternative. The Quadrant (studio apartments from \u00a375, 100 Waterloo Quadrant, thequadrant.com) is a hip and reasonably affordable option for self-caterers.If money is no object, the pick of Auckland's boutique accommodation is Hotel de Brett (from \u00a3130 a night, 2 High St, +64 9 925 9000, hoteldebrett.com), a central, stylish 1930s hotel with a mix of vintage and contemporary furniture. Its classic bar was once a regular hangout of the city's hard-drinking hacks.The Michael Lett gallery (285/2 Great North Road, +64 9 376 1266, michaellett.com) is in an willfully perverse location: a former car mechanics on a busy road in Grey Lynn. I couldn't make head nor tail of the sound installation, but fans of cutting-edge contemporary art will no doubt fare better.ArtSpace (300 Karangahape Road, +64 9 303 4965, artspace.org.nz) has great exhibitions; the lovely old Mercury Theatre (9 Mercury Lane, Newton) is putting on plays again for the first time in around 20 years; and radio station 95bFM (95bfm.co.nz) showcases new local bands.La Cigale (69 St Georges Bay Rd, Parnell, lacigale.co.nz) is the best of Auckland's many farmers' markets. It's a mix of excellent local produce and great immigrant-run stalls selling delicacies such as spicy Serbian sausage, plus a restaurant. But don't take my word for it: John Key, the prime minister, shops here most Saturdays. I spotted him buying French cheese, casually dressed in shorts and T-shirt, with one burly minder a discreet distance away.The Department Store (10 Northcroft Street, Takapuna, blog.thedepartmentstore.co.nz) is a \"concept store\" stocking local designers \u2013 and is also New Zealand's only Topshop outlet. Shoppers queue down the street on Thursdays when the new consignment arrives from the UK.St Kevin's Arcade (179 Karangahape Road) has some lovely boutiques and vintage shops, including Children of Vision and Fast and Loose. Nearby Ironbank (150 Karangahape Road, ironbank.co.nz) also houses some interesting shops. Douglas + Bec (9 St Mary's Road, Ponsonby, +64 9 551 3685, workroom.net.nz) are a father and daughter design team making simple homeware out of reclaimed timber \u2013 their shop is well worth a browse.One of Auckland's best beaches can only be found with a little insider knowledge. Park near the Takapuna Beach Cafe and Store (22 The Promenade, North Shore, +64 9 484 0002, takapunabeachcafe.co.nz) and pick up an ice-cream \u2013 I can recommend the passion fruit sorbet \u2013 then leave Takapuna beach to the tourists and walk over the black volcanic rocks to Thorne Bay. This secluded little beach has trees providing shade and is a safe place to swim (though not when we visited, as there was a tsunami warning). And don't attempt to cross the rocks at high tide.Beautiful Waiheke Island (waiheke.co.nz) is a 30-minute boat ride from central Auckland, and is unmissable. Go wine tasting at Mudbrick Vineyard (mudbrick.co.nz), try the olive oil at Rangihoua Estate (rangihoua.co.nz), and treat yourself to lunch at Cable Bay (cablebayvineyards.co.nz) \u2013 the wine bar is a cheaper alternative if you can't stretch to the restaurant.\u2022 Tourism New Zealand's Rugby World Cup site is at newzealand.com/rugby. Remaining tickets go on sale on 4 July at tickets.rugbyworldcup.com. The Real New Zealand Festival (realnzfestival.com) will feature more than 1,000 cultural events nationwide during the tournament. Emirates (0844 800277, emirates.com/uk) flies to Auckland daily from Heathrow, Gatwick, Manchester, Birmingham, Glasgow and Newcastle from \u00a3950 return", "tags": ["Auckland holidays", "New Zealand holidays", "Rugby World Cup 2011", "Australasia holidays", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Rugby World Cup"], "title": "New Zealand Rugby World Cup city guide: Auckland"},{"date": "2011-06-27T13:15:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Glen Johnson, a freelance journalist from New Zealand, has been arrested in Yemen.According to the New Zealand Herald, he is being held for allegedly entering the country illegally from Djibouti. Johnson, a contributor to the New York Times and Le Monde, has covered the Middle East for over two years and, according to his parents, had been investigating a people-smuggling ring for a British magazine.They also told the Herald they believed their son had not been harmed and was currently in a jail in Lahj province. This is not Johnson's first encounter with the Yemeni authorities. He visited Yemen last year to report on female sexual abuse and left after the country gave him 36 hours to depart.He was also arrested four times and beaten once in Egypt while covering the protests earlier this year. In 2011, press freedom violations have soared in Yemen since violent clashes began between opposition forces and the government. There have been a catalogue of incidents.During May alone, several journalists were injured when military forces attacked a private satellite broadcaster Suhail TV. Reporter Farooq al-Kamali was shot in the leg two while covering a gun battle between loyalist troops and members of the Hashid tribal federation. Armed men raided the offices of independent daily newspaper Al-Oula, where trainee editor Hasaan Saeed Hasaan was stabbed 10 times.Newspaper reporter Ibraheem al-Ba'adani was attacked in the city of Ibb by opposition forces after being accused of working for the pro-government news agency; on the same day, journalist Abdel Rahman Bajunaid was found stabbed to death in the city of Aden. Bajunaid was the second journalist killed in Yemen in 2011 following the March shooting death of Al-Masdar reporter Jamal Ahmed al-Sharabi. International Press Institute press freedom manager Anthony Mills said: \"We urge the Yemeni authorities to release Glen Johnson, to allow full access to the country for foreign correspondents, and to ensure that local Yemeni journalists are not obliged to operate in a climate of fear.\" Sources: International Press Institute/New Zealand Herald", "tags": ["Media", "Journalist safety", "Yemen", "Press freedom", "Arab and Middle East unrest", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "New Zealand", "New York Times", "Le Monde", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand journalist detained in Yemen"},{"date": "2011-06-06T11:08:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "With Christchurch unable to host Rugby World Cup (rugbyworldcup.com) matches after February's earthquake, the spotlight is on Dunedin: the South Island's second city will now host three of England's four group games. Eighteenth-century Scottish settlers built the city in Edinburgh's image, and it was boosted by a goldrush in the 19th century. Its university (otago.ac.nz) is the oldest in New Zealand and one of the most prestigious, lending the city a multicultural, youthful air. Dunedin's vibrant, compact centre is surrounded by fantastic countryside, great beaches and teeming wildlife.Customhouse (18 Fryatt Street, thecustomhouse.co.nz) is an airy, upmarket cafe-bar-restaurant on the harbour, housed in \u2013 yep \u2013 the former custom house. Potpourri (97 Stuart Street) is good for an afternoon pick-me-up \u2013 try its delicious apple crumble muffins. George Street is full of cafes, including Governors at No 438. A Dunedin institution, it has been catering for hungover students since 1977 and makes the best cheese rolls around. These Dunedin delicacies comprising bread slathered with a secret cheese recipe (rumour has it onion soup mix is involved), folded up, grilled, then spread with butter and served with a cup of tea.Strictly Coffee (23 Bath Street, strictlycoffee.co.nz) is one of Dunedin's coolest cafes. It has a retro vibe with lots of red and black leather, and a cute courtyard garden. Locals will drink six \"long blacks\" in one sitting \u2013 not to be attempted if you're unused to New Zealand's strong coffee.Technique (Harbour Terrace, +64 3 479 6172, for bookings email bookings@op.ac.nz) is the training restaurant for Otago Polytechnic, where you can enjoy a tasting menu for under \u00a320 \u2013 bargain. Paasha (31 St Andrew Street, paasha.co.nz) is best for Turkish food, while the student area is full of great sushi joints. If you want to splash out, go to Plato (2 Birch Street, platocafe.co.nz). Ignore the menus on the table and choose from the seafood on the blackboard. I had paua patties (abalone, the surprisingly tasty slug of the sea), squeaky fresh tuna on a herb risotto, and liquorice and five-spice ice-cream with rhubarb compote. Collectors' kitsch lines the room \u2013 and keep an eye out for sporting superstars: All Blacks captain Richie McCaw was on the next table.Albar (135 Stuart Street) was originally Central Bar \u2013 allegedly the first five letters fell off and the new name stuck \u2013 and it reflects Dunedin's Scottish heritage, serving whisky and haggis. Inch Bar (8 Bank Street) has a good selection of beers, including local brew Emerson's on tap. Pequeno (50 Princes Street, pequeno.co.nz) is a hidden gem behind the Savoy building. Find it down a graffiti'd alley off Moray Place \u2013 belying the insalubrious surroundings, it's a classy joint serving cocktails and tapas. Lower Stuart Street has plenty of restaurants and bars, including hip hangout Carousel at No 141 (carouselbar.co.nz). Also look out for anywhere serving Green Man (greenmanbrewery.co.nz), a local, award-winning organic beer.For backpackers, Merrin recommends On Top (12 Filleul Street, (+64 3 477 6121, ontopbackpackers.co.nz, dorm beds from \u00a313); clean modern doubles at LivingSpace (192 Castle Street, +64 3 951 5000, dud.livingspace.net, from \u00a332 a night,); and self-catering flats at Quest Dunedin (333 Cumberland Street, +61 3 9645 8357, questapartments.co.nz, from \u00a366 a night).James suggests the Tourist Court Cottages, a 15-minute walk from the centre (+64 3 477 4270, motel-accommodation-dunedin.co.nz, from \u00a349 a night). More adventurous visitors might want to try dormitory accommodation at The Lodge on Dunedin's Quarantine Island, where new arrivals were contained in the 19th century. (+64 3 478 0874, theisland.org.nz, suggested donation \u00a37 a night).On the Otago peninsula, Larnach Castle (+64 3 476 1616, larnachcastle.co.nz) has lodgings to suit three budgets: The Stables (cheapish), Larnach Lodge (mid-range) and the new Camp Estate (very expensive). For a real treat, stay at the St Clair Beach Resort (+64 3 456 0555, stclairbeachresort.com, doubles from \u00a396), a new luxury hotel in a swanky suburb south-west of the centre. It was the best place I stayed in New Zealand by a big margin.Dunedin has a vibrant live music scene (see dunedinmusic.com). Logan Park, the university sports ground just across the road from the new rugby stadium, hosts festivals and outdoor gigs. Re:Fuel (640 Cumberland St), a cafe/bar on campus often has jazz by local musicians. Also try tiny Mou Very (357 George Street), upstairs at the Captain Cook Tavern (354 Great King Street); and the Chicks Hotel (2 Mount Street) in bohemian Port Chalmers. Ash & the Matadors are an up-and-coming local band.Moray Place is home to a cluster of art galleries, such as Temple (templegallery.co.nz) and Blue Oyster (blueoyster.org.nz), while Gallery De Novo (gallerydenovo.co.nz) on Stuart Street) displays a changing line-up of New Zealand artists.You're spoilt for lovely beaches in Dunedin: St Clair, St Kilda, Black Head, Brighton \u2026 But perhaps the most magical of all is Tunnel Beach, a few kilometres south-west of the city. In the 1870s John Cargill, a local bigwig, blasted a tunnel through the cliff so that his family could bathe in privacy. A steep grassy track leads to the tunnel, which has 72 stone steps down to the beach. The stretch of golden sand is flanked on three sides by sheer, sea-smoothed cliffs with natural caves and rock arches. Legend has it that Cargill's daughter drowned there, so he paid a high price for his piece of paradise. Check the tides before you go and avoid lambing season, when the track is closed.The major wildlife draw around Dunedin is the Otago Peninsula (otago-peninsula.co.nz). I took a Monarch boat trip (wildlife.co.nz) to the Royal Albatross Colony at Taiaroa Head, the birds' only mainland breeding colony in the world.Also on the peninsula I visited Nature's Wonders (natureswonders.co.nz), a family-run conservation project. We zoomed around on all-terrain Argo vehicles, spotting dozens of New Zealand fur seals and their playful pups, and even a couple of rare yellow-eyed penguins.To the north, the Taieri Gorge Railway (+64 3 477 4449, taieri.co.nz) offers a relaxing journey through spectacular scenery.Remaining tickets for the 2011 Rugby World Cup go on sale on 4 July at tickets.rugbyworldcup.com. For further information about New Zealand and the world cup, go to newzealand.com/rugby. The Real New Zealand Festival (realnzfestival.com) will feature more than 1,000 cultural events during the tournament.Emirates (0844 800277, emirates.com/uk) flies to Auckland and Christchurch daily from Heathrow, Gatwick, Manchester, Birmingham, Glasgow and Newcastle from \u00a3950 return.\u2022 James Hacon is a local tourist consultant (twitter.com/jameshacon), and Merrin Bath organises Dunedin's annual fashion week (idfashion.co.nz)", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "City breaks", "Rugby World Cup 2011", "Australasia holidays", "Food and drink", "Bars and clubs", "Wildlife holidays", "Hotels", "Hostels", "Bed and breakfasts", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Rugby World Cup"], "title": "New Zealand Rugby World Cup cities: Dunedin"},{"date": "2011-06-29T13:01:26Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "It has wandered thousands of miles off course, ending up confused, lost and in hospital, but a young emperor penguin that reached New Zealand must now find its own way home.Wildlife officials have decided to help the penguin \u2013 dubbed Happy Feet after the 2006 animated film \u2013 find its way back to its Antarctic home 2,000 miles from New Zealand's North Island, but stopped short of giving it a lift all the way.The bird, which is 3ft (90cm) tall, will be taken part of the way home and freed into the Southern Ocean, south-east of New Zealand, and will be expected to swim the rest of the way.When Happy Feet was found on Peka Peka beach last week, it was the first time in 44 years the species has been sighted in New Zealand. Since then, wildlife experts \u2013 who are not sure if Happy Feet is male or female \u2013 have debated the best way to get the bird home.An initial suggestion of taking the penguin all the way back to the Antarctic was dismissed because of logistical difficulties and fears Happy Feet could have picked up infections while in New Zealand, which it could pass on to other penguins.An advisory group decided it would give the hapless penguin a helping hand, but it would have to do the bulk of the work. \"The reason for not returning the penguin directly to Antarctica is that emperor penguins of this age are usually found north of Antarctica on pack ice and in the open ocean,\" Peter Simpson, the department's biodiversity spokesman, said.Instead, it will be released on the northern edge of the region where young emperor penguins are known to live. Simpson was unsure how far the penguin would have to swim before getting home.It has been a rough ride for the unfortunate penguin. After being rescued by marine experts, it had to have an operation to remove sand from its stomach, after apparently mistaking it for snow which penguins eat to hydrate themselves in winter. The bird has been recovering at Wellington zoo after one of New Zealand's leading surgeons, more used to performing the operation on humans, carried out an endoscopy, flushing its stomach clear of sand and driftwood.The penguin has been resting in a private, airconditioned room filled with large blocks of ice and dining on the finest fish slurry. The zoo has said that the penguin will not be taken home before it recovers. Zoo spokeswoman Kate Baker said: \"The plan is to let him rest, feed him and x-ray him again on Friday or Saturday to see how much sand has passed.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Animals", "Animal welfare", "Antarctica", "Animal behaviour", "Science", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Lost emperor 'Happy Feet' must swim home from New Zealand"},{"date": "2011-06-08T10:58:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A visitor to New Zealand's biggest city is in danger of being disappointed: Auckland lacks the immediate buzz of Wellington or the laid-back charm of Dunedin. But while Auckland's centre is a little underwhelming, there is plenty of life in this city - and it's all in the suburbs. Food writer Simon Farrell-Green (eatherenow.co.nz) took me on a tour of the best bitsPonsonby is where Auckland's well-heeled creatives hang out, and as such it's not for everybody (my friends from down-to-earth Hamilton refer to it as \"Ponsnobby\"). But for those that don't mind drinking coffee with yummy mummies and their ilk, it's full of great cafes. Try Good One (42 Douglas St, +64 9 360 5040), a locals' haunt serving delicious rhubarb and custard muffins.Shed 5 is a fantastically offbeat cafe-cum-motorbike-showroom in Rhubarb Lane (victoriaquarter.wordpress.com), a quirky development in a former bus depot not far from the centre. When we dropped in, classic cars awaiting auction were parked among the tables, just in case anyone fancied a Ferrari with their flat white.Little & Friday (43c Eversleigh Rd, Takapuna, +64 9 489 8527) is another oddity: a gorgeous modern cafe, slap-bang in the middle of unfashionable suburbia. Elderly couples sit alongside kids with skinny jeans and enormous afros, united by their love for the amazing sausage rolls.Golden Dawn (134 Ponsonby Road) is the bar of the moment on Ponsonby Road. There's no signage and the windows are papered over, making it a magnet for the cool crowd.Tyler St Garage (120 Quay Street) is a new rooftop bar near the centre, on the edge of the Britomart area. This district was dilapidated for years but is now being sensitively developed to protect its heritage buildings. The bars, farmers' markets and festivals springing up there are making it a new city hotspot.North Wharf (waterfrontauckland.co.nz) is a new waterside development that should be finished in time for the Rugby World Cup and will house bars, restaurants and galleries. It is hoped that it will be an edgier version of the Viaduct (viaduct.co.nz), a still popular but rather soulless \u2013 and expensive \u2013 harbour area that was revamped for the America's Cup in 2000.Scruffy K' Road is grittier than Ponsonby, and a perennial favourite with the local hipsters. We went to Coco's Cantina (376 Karangahape Rd, +64 9 300 7582, cocoscantina.co.nz), a loud and casual local restaurant, for lamb and feta terrine followed by superb steaks with anchovy butter.Auckland is home to some fantastic Asian restaurants. Simon recommends Ichiban Ramen (17 Albert Street, +64 9 303 4372), a hole-in-wall noodle bar; Mekong Vietnamese (106 Ponsonby Road) for the best pho (beef noodle soup); and Grand Harbour (Viaduct Harbour, +64 9 357 6889, grandharbour.co.nz) for top yum cha (dim sum).Mexican Specialities (5-92 Marua Road, Ellerslie, +64 9 580 2497, mexicanspecialities.co.nz) only opens for lunch, and only Thursday-Saturday, but serves very fresh and authentic Mexican food. Dida's (glengarry.co.nz) started life as a wine shop and has now expanded to serve tapas-style food in two swish suburbs, Herne Bay (54 Jervois Road, Herne Bay, +64 9 376 2813) and Devenport (54 Victoria Road, Devonport, +64 9 445 1392).The Auckland branch of Base Backpackers (from \u00a39pp for a shared dorm, 229 Queens St, stayatbase.com) is a reliable choice for cheap, central accommodation. Jucy Hotel (doubles from \u00a335, 62 Emily Place, jucyhotel.com) is a good budget alternative. The Quadrant (studio apartments from \u00a375, 100 Waterloo Quadrant, thequadrant.com) is a hip and reasonably affordable option for self-caterers.If money is no object, the pick of Auckland's boutique accommodation is Hotel de Brett (from \u00a3130 a night, 2 High St, +64 9 925 9000, hoteldebrett.com), a central, stylish 1930s hotel with a mix of vintage and contemporary furniture. Its classic bar was once a regular hangout of the city's hard-drinking hacks.The Michael Lett gallery (285/2 Great North Road, +64 9 376 1266, michaellett.com) is in an willfully perverse location: a former car mechanics on a busy road in Grey Lynn. I couldn't make head nor tail of the sound installation, but fans of cutting-edge contemporary art will no doubt fare better.ArtSpace (300 Karangahape Road, +64 9 303 4965, artspace.org.nz) has great exhibitions; the lovely old Mercury Theatre (9 Mercury Lane, Newton) is putting on plays again for the first time in around 20 years; and radio station 95bFM (95bfm.co.nz) showcases new local bands.La Cigale (69 St Georges Bay Rd, Parnell, lacigale.co.nz) is the best of Auckland's many farmers' markets. It's a mix of excellent local produce and great immigrant-run stalls selling delicacies such as spicy Serbian sausage, plus a restaurant. But don't take my word for it: John Key, the prime minister, shops here most Saturdays. I spotted him buying French cheese, casually dressed in shorts and T-shirt, with one burly minder a discreet distance away.The Department Store (10 Northcroft Street, Takapuna, blog.thedepartmentstore.co.nz) is a \"concept store\" stocking local designers \u2013 and is also New Zealand's only Topshop outlet. Shoppers queue down the street on Thursdays when the new consignment arrives from the UK.St Kevin's Arcade (179 Karangahape Road) has some lovely boutiques and vintage shops, including Children of Vision and Fast and Loose. Nearby Ironbank (150 Karangahape Road, ironbank.co.nz) also houses some interesting shops. Douglas + Bec (9 St Mary's Road, Ponsonby, +64 9 551 3685, workroom.net.nz) are a father and daughter design team making simple homeware out of reclaimed timber \u2013 their shop is well worth a browse.One of Auckland's best beaches can only be found with a little insider knowledge. Park near the Takapuna Beach Cafe and Store (22 The Promenade, North Shore, +64 9 484 0002, takapunabeachcafe.co.nz) and pick up an ice-cream \u2013 I can recommend the passion fruit sorbet \u2013 then leave Takapuna beach to the tourists and walk over the black volcanic rocks to Thorne Bay. This secluded little beach has trees providing shade and is a safe place to swim (though not when we visited, as there was a tsunami warning). And don't attempt to cross the rocks at high tide.Beautiful Waiheke Island (waiheke.co.nz) is a 30-minute boat ride from central Auckland, and is unmissable. Go wine tasting at Mudbrick Vineyard (mudbrick.co.nz), try the olive oil at Rangihoua Estate (rangihoua.co.nz), and treat yourself to lunch at Cable Bay (cablebayvineyards.co.nz) \u2013 the wine bar is a cheaper alternative if you can't stretch to the restaurant.\u2022 Tourism New Zealand's Rugby World Cup site is at newzealand.com/rugby. Remaining tickets go on sale on 4 July at tickets.rugbyworldcup.com. The Real New Zealand Festival (realnzfestival.com) will feature more than 1,000 cultural events nationwide during the tournament. Emirates (0844 800277, emirates.com/uk) flies to Auckland daily from Heathrow, Gatwick, Manchester, Birmingham, Glasgow and Newcastle from \u00a3950 return", "tags": ["Auckland holidays", "New Zealand holidays", "Rugby World Cup 2011", "Australasia holidays", "Travel", "Cultural trips", "Food and drink", "Rugby World Cup"], "title": "New Zealand Rugby World Cup city guide: Auckland"},{"date": "2011-06-07T10:27:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The New Zealand capital has a special place in the hearts of visitors and locals alike. It is small (the country's third-biggest city, with under 400,000 inhabitants), arty \u2013 and windy. Residents are defiantly proud of the poor climate, seeing it as an annoyance that only those who truly love the city are willing to put up with. Unlike Auckland, Wellington is compact enough to be enjoyed without a car, although there are some interesting areas to visit outside of the centre, too. Blogger Nick Churchouse (wordonthestreet.co.nz/author/nick) gave me a guided tour.Cuba Street is the hub of Wellington's eating, drinking and shopping scene. Notable cafes include Fidel's (234 Cuba Street), a Wellington institution, and Midnight Espresso (178 Cuba St), a narrow but funky space serving great breakfasts. For more substantial fare, Phoenician Cuisine (10 Kent Terrace ) is the city's best-loved kebab shop.Riddiford Street in the suburb of Newtown is a sort of poor man's Cuba Street, and sees far fewer tourists. There was a festival there when I visited (there is always a festival on somewhere in Wellington), and Newtown's colourful characters, including a gangster restaurateur with a huge waxed moustache, were thronging the streets. Try Baabab (baobabcafe.co.nz) at No 152, and Pranah (pranahcafe.co.nz) at No 120 for tasty vegetarian fare.Further out, Maranui Caf\u00e9 (maranuicafe.co.nz) at Maranui Surf Life Saving Club, is a busy surfers' hangout with great views over Lyall Bay, and Caf\u00e9 Polo (cafepolo.co.nz) at 82-84 Rotherham Terrace, Miramar, is a more grown-up affair serving bistro-style food.You could eat at a different restaurant on and around Cuba Street for weeks, from Malaysian/South Indian Rasa (+64 4 384 7088) at No 200 (the cheapest BYO in town), to eclectic Matterhorn (+64 4 384 3359, matterhorn.co.nz, at No 106), a historic restaurant catering to New Zealand's glitterati \u2013 the Lord of the Rings cast loved it.For casual but great-quality New Zealand cuisine, head to The Larder (+64 4 891 0354, thelarder.co.nz), a newish place in the emerging foodie hub of Miramar. I had a memorable lunch of sweetcorn fritters with bacon, avocado and tomato relish, plus a side of pork belly and black pudding hash.For seafood, try Ortega on Majoribanks Street (+64 4 382 9559, ortega.co.nz), a self-styled \"fish shack\" with friendly staff. I went for the kippered alfonsino on kedgeree, followed by lemon posset with strawberries.Bar Edward (baredward.co.nz) at 167 Riddiford Street is a good example of the trend for \"brewpubs\", a hybrid of a traditional pub and a boutique brewery. Try local brew Tuatara (tuatarabrewing.co.nz) \u2013 the limited-edition APA is particularly good.Notable bars around Cuba Street include the Kreuzberg Summer Caf\u00e9 (kreuzbergsummercafe.co.nz) on the corner of Webb St, a garden centre-cum-bar that's great on nice evenings; Mighty Mighty (Upstairs at No 104) is the younger, bohemian sister bar to Matterhorn; and S&M's (scottyandmals.co.nz) at No 176 is one of Wellington's few gay bars.Motel (motelbar.co.nz) on Forresters Lane is a secret bar serving great cocktails to the intrepid drinkers that find it. Don't go if you're in a rush \u2013 it's table service only, and staff won't be hurried.The Lighthouse (+64 4 472 4177, thelighthouse.net.nz, doubles from \u00a390) is a wonderfully romantic B&B by the beach with great views over Island Bay.The Ohtel (+64 4 8030600, ohtel.com, from \u00a3120) is a beautiful, if pricey, boutique hotel with vintage Scandinavian furniture. And the Museum Hotel (+64 4 802 8900, museumhotel.co.nz, from \u00a390) is a sumptuous hotel with an incredible modern art collection, right opposite Te Papa (tepapa.govt.nz), the unmissable Museum of New Zealand.For backpackers, YHA Wellington City (beds from \u00a314, +64 4 801 7280, yha.co.nz) is a good bet: it's won several awards and is very central. The recently refurbished, historic Cambridge Hotel (0800 375 021, cambridgehotel.co.nz) has a 'luxury' backpackers section (beds from \u00a311), as well as 25 well-priced rooms (doubles from \u00a342).Miramar, or Wellywood, is the hub of Wellington's movie-making industry. Not that you'd know it from a drive around the studios \u2013 it looks just like suburbia. Call in at the Weta Cave mini-museum (Corner of Camperdown Rd and Weka St, wetanz.com/cave) if you're a diehard Peter Jackson fan.Cobham Drive, the road from Miramar back to town, has several interesting wind sculptures (sculpture.org.nz/engine/SID/10007/AID/1258.htm) \u2013 the city is trying to make an asset of its challenging weather.Bats Theatre on Kent Terrace, (+64 4 802 4175, bats.co.nz) is a small arts co-operative staging edgy, alternative shows. According to Nick, these are \"sometimes excruciating, sometimes fantastic\".Wellington has more scuba divers per capita than anywhere else in New Zealand, because it has so much accessible coast. Try it yourself at Island Bay, which is also good for fishing, has a seal colony within walking distance, and amazing sunsets. Locals like to grab some fish and chips and a couple of beers and watch the sun sink over the Kaikoura mountains. Lyall Bay is the best surfing beach \u2013 regular, windsurfing or kitesurfing \u2013 within easy reach of the city. Upmarket Seatoun, where Peter Jackson lives, is a good place for swimming. Breaker Bay is Wellington's only nudist beach.Just west of the city, Zealandia (visitzealandia.com) is a pioneering conservation project 10-minutes' drive away. It is the world's first fully fenced urban wildlife sanctuary. Go there to see New Zealand in its pre-human state, when there were no mammals but countless unique birds, reptiles and insects. Best of all is the night tour, when you have the chance to spot the lovable kiwi fossicking for food. I saw two!\u2022 Remaining tickets for the Rugby World Cup go on sale on 4 July at tickets.rugbyworldcup.com. The Real New Zealand Festival (realnzfestival.com) will feature more than 1,000 cultural events during the tournament. Emirates (0844 800277, emirates.com/uk) flies to Auckland and Christchurch from Heathrow, Gatwick, Manchester, Birmingham, Glasgow and Newcastle from \u00a3950 return", "tags": ["Wellington holidays", "New Zealand holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Travel", "Rugby World Cup 2011", "Restaurants", "Bars and clubs", "Cultural trips", "Rugby World Cup"], "title": "New Zealand Rugby World Cup city guide: Wellington"},{"date": "2011-09-09T21:44:01Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "With no disrespect to the club scene in downtown Auckland, which I'm sure is humming, few people make the 24-hour flight to New Zealand for the nightlife. The lure for travellers is rather the opposite: the great outdoors, the extraordinary freak-of-nature landscape \u2013 where a volcano or glacier might be a short drive from a Caribbean-style beach \u2013 with perhaps a shot of extreme-sport adrenaline thrown in. After all that, you'd guess the main point of a night in New Zealand is to recover from the strenuous activity of the day.We, too, went to New Zealand \u2013 campervanning from Auckland in the north down to Milford Sound in the south \u2013 for the same reasons that draw everyone else: to enjoy the air, the beauty, the sea. It's just that we made a discovery. That stuff does not disappear at sunset. On the contrary, the wonder of New Zealand only gets more luminous after dark.We took the camper to Tauranga for an overnight fishing trip. Our youngest boy, then six, had only been fishing once \u2013 but, having glimpsed some of Robson Green's extreme fishing on TV, he had fallen for the idea of casting a line not from the riverbank but from a boat in the deep Pacific. So we booked an overnight trip with Mike, a Scottish-born engineer who had travelled the world before settling on the other side of it, taking novices like us out on his 12m boat to see if they could learn their nibbles from their hooks.The day was a delight, standing on deck in the warm sunshine, either throwing out lines while the boat bobbed in one spot, or trailing bait behind us as we sped ahead into the Bay of Plenty. Before too long all of us were reeling in our share of tarakihi, snapper or kingfish.But the real pleasure came as the sun began to set and day turned to evening. Mike steered the boat into the relatively sheltered waters behind Motiti Island, where we anchored for the night. In the small, cosy quarters below deck he gutted, breaded and fried the tarakihi \u2013 rapidly devoured by two boys usually reluctant to have fish anywhere near their plates. Exhausted from the day at sea, they were ready to get into bed and be rocked to sleep.Mike, however, knew the best was yet to come. He beckoned us back on to the fishing platform. The sun was long gone now, the ocean apparently black and empty \u2013 until our skipper turned on the bright deck light. Suddenly the waters were revealed as throbbing with life \u2013 full of silent, almost translucent jellyfish, swelling and pulsing in an elegant ballet around us.The show was not over. Mike reached for a rod, gently lowering it into the water, as if stirring a pot \u2013 then turned off the light. Once our eyes had adjusted, we saw that, though the jellyfish had disappeared from view, the darkness was no longer absolute. Instead, the surface of the water was marked by trails of neon-bright green light: the phosphorescent glow of plankton. The sight was somehow reassuring, like seeing landing lights, ready to guide our craft home.We were on the water again a couple of nights later \u2013 in McLaren Falls Park, a gorgeous preserve of native bush and birdlife bordering Lake McLaren, near Tauranga. We met our guides at dusk, snacking by the lakeside on fruit, cheese and plentiful supplies of New Zealand wine. Then, once all light had gone, we were handed our lifejackets and headtorches, and clambered into our canoes.There is something utterly dreamlike about paddling on water in total darkness. Where else but in your dreams do you float, seeing nothing at all, with no familiar points of orientation, unsure whether land is close or far away? Only the white and red dots of our guides' torches provided any clue.We glided on the water, avoiding marshes, steering down a narrow inlet until we were in a gorge lit up like the most dazzling planetarium. What we were looking at was a galaxy full of glow-worms, clinging to the steep rock walls on either side, each one a bright star. It was the dead of night, silent but for the sound of falling water or a paddle breaking the surface \u2013 the only sight coming from those billion points of light. Somehow the moment combined both serenity and awe.We hadn't planned it that way, but our next nocturnal jaunt had us gazing at stars of the genuine and distant variety. By now our campervan had trundled deep into the South Island, to the shores of Lake Tekapo \u2013 stunning enough by day, thanks to the electric blue water of the lake, so vivid it seems to have been touched up by the great Photoshop artist in the sky. But it's the heavens that are the big draw here, thanks to the presence on Mount John of the only research observatory in the world that opens its doors to the non-astronomer public. A combination of nature and smart planning \u2013 the local authority has imposed strict rules keeping light pollution to a minimum \u2013 has ensured a near-perfect view of the heavens. Would-be stargazers gather close to midnight in the storefront of the Earth & Sky company. Then it's into a minibus for the steep climb up the mountainside.There, astronomers using hand-held green laser beams point at the stars, including the nearest beyond the sun, Alpha Centauri \u2013 a mere 4.5 light years away \u2013 revealing that it's not in fact one star, but two. Then to the telescopes to gaze at the bright surface of \u2026 Jupiter, even glimpsing four of its moons. The effect of standing on that cold mountain in the early hours, on the other side of the world, gazing at distant worlds was humbling \u2013 making one feel tiny, a single creature on a single planet in a vast universe.The skies above Lake Tekapo are on trial as a future Unesco world heritage site. For our urban family from London it felt like a rare privilege indeed \u2013 and proof that the pure, unspoilt wonder of New Zealand does not end at sunset. Such beauty never sleeps.\u2022 Air New Zealand (airnewzealand.co.uk) has returns from Heathrow to Auckland from \u00a3940. Hiring a campervan sleeping two adults and two children under 10 costs from NZ$112 (\u00a360) a day from Kea Campers (+64\u00a09448 8800, keacampers.co.nz). Sunfish Charters (+64 7579 3816, sunfish.co.nz) has five-hour fishing trips for up to 12 people from \u00a3390. Waimarino.com has three-hour glow\u2011worm kayak tours from \u00a365pp (+64 7576 4233, waimarino.com). Earth & Sky (earthandsky.co.nz) has two-hour stargazing tours at Mount John Observatory for \u00a345 adults, \u00a325 children", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Road trips", "Family holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Fishing holidays", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays"], "title": "Black magic: New Zealand by night"},{"date": "2011-09-09T21:44:01Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "With no disrespect to the club scene in downtown Auckland, which I'm sure is humming, few people make the 24-hour flight to New Zealand for the nightlife. The lure for travellers is rather the opposite: the great outdoors, the extraordinary freak-of-nature landscape \u2013 where a volcano or glacier might be a short drive from a Caribbean-style beach \u2013 with perhaps a shot of extreme-sport adrenaline thrown in. After all that, you'd guess the main point of a night in New Zealand is to recover from the strenuous activity of the day.We, too, went to New Zealand \u2013 campervanning from Auckland in the north down to Milford Sound in the south \u2013 for the same reasons that draw everyone else: to enjoy the air, the beauty, the sea. It's just that we made a discovery. That stuff does not disappear at sunset. On the contrary, the wonder of New Zealand only gets more luminous after dark.We took the camper to Tauranga for an overnight fishing trip. Our youngest boy, then six, had only been fishing once \u2013 but, having glimpsed some of Robson Green's extreme fishing on TV, he had fallen for the idea of casting a line not from the riverbank but from a boat in the deep Pacific. So we booked an overnight trip with Mike, a Scottish-born engineer who had travelled the world before settling on the other side of it, taking novices like us out on his 12m boat to see if they could learn their nibbles from their hooks.The day was a delight, standing on deck in the warm sunshine, either throwing out lines while the boat bobbed in one spot, or trailing bait behind us as we sped ahead into the Bay of Plenty. Before too long all of us were reeling in our share of tarakihi, snapper or kingfish.But the real pleasure came as the sun began to set and day turned to evening. Mike steered the boat into the relatively sheltered waters behind Motiti Island, where we anchored for the night. In the small, cosy quarters below deck he gutted, breaded and fried the tarakihi \u2013 rapidly devoured by two boys usually reluctant to have fish anywhere near their plates. Exhausted from the day at sea, they were ready to get into bed and be rocked to sleep.Mike, however, knew the best was yet to come. He beckoned us back on to the fishing platform. The sun was long gone now, the ocean apparently black and empty \u2013 until our skipper turned on the bright deck light. Suddenly the waters were revealed as throbbing with life \u2013 full of silent, almost translucent jellyfish, swelling and pulsing in an elegant ballet around us.The show was not over. Mike reached for a rod, gently lowering it into the water, as if stirring a pot \u2013 then turned off the light. Once our eyes had adjusted, we saw that, though the jellyfish had disappeared from view, the darkness was no longer absolute. Instead, the surface of the water was marked by trails of neon-bright green light: the phosphorescent glow of plankton. The sight was somehow reassuring, like seeing landing lights, ready to guide our craft home.We were on the water again a couple of nights later \u2013 in McLaren Falls Park, a gorgeous preserve of native bush and birdlife bordering Lake McLaren, near Tauranga. We met our guides at dusk, snacking by the lakeside on fruit, cheese and plentiful supplies of New Zealand wine. Then, once all light had gone, we were handed our lifejackets and headtorches, and clambered into our canoes.There is something utterly dreamlike about paddling on water in total darkness. Where else but in your dreams do you float, seeing nothing at all, with no familiar points of orientation, unsure whether land is close or far away? Only the white and red dots of our guides' torches provided any clue.We glided on the water, avoiding marshes, steering down a narrow inlet until we were in a gorge lit up like the most dazzling planetarium. What we were looking at was a galaxy full of glow-worms, clinging to the steep rock walls on either side, each one a bright star. It was the dead of night, silent but for the sound of falling water or a paddle breaking the surface \u2013 the only sight coming from those billion points of light. Somehow the moment combined both serenity and awe.We hadn't planned it that way, but our next nocturnal jaunt had us gazing at stars of the genuine and distant variety. By now our campervan had trundled deep into the South Island, to the shores of Lake Tekapo \u2013 stunning enough by day, thanks to the electric blue water of the lake, so vivid it seems to have been touched up by the great Photoshop artist in the sky. But it's the heavens that are the big draw here, thanks to the presence on Mount John of the only research observatory in the world that opens its doors to the non-astronomer public. A combination of nature and smart planning \u2013 the local authority has imposed strict rules keeping light pollution to a minimum \u2013 has ensured a near-perfect view of the heavens. Would-be stargazers gather close to midnight in the storefront of the Earth & Sky company. Then it's into a minibus for the steep climb up the mountainside.There, astronomers using hand-held green laser beams point at the stars, including the nearest beyond the sun, Alpha Centauri \u2013 a mere 4.5 light years away \u2013 revealing that it's not in fact one star, but two. Then to the telescopes to gaze at the bright surface of \u2026 Jupiter, even glimpsing four of its moons. The effect of standing on that cold mountain in the early hours, on the other side of the world, gazing at distant worlds was humbling \u2013 making one feel tiny, a single creature on a single planet in a vast universe.The skies above Lake Tekapo are on trial as a future Unesco world heritage site. For our urban family from London it felt like a rare privilege indeed \u2013 and proof that the pure, unspoilt wonder of New Zealand does not end at sunset. Such beauty never sleeps.\u2022 Air New Zealand (airnewzealand.co.uk) has returns from Heathrow to Auckland from \u00a3940. Hiring a campervan sleeping two adults and two children under 10 costs from NZ$112 (\u00a360) a day from Kea Campers (+64\u00a09448 8800, keacampers.co.nz). Sunfish Charters (+64 7579 3816, sunfish.co.nz) has five-hour fishing trips for up to 12 people from \u00a3390. Waimarino.com has three-hour glow\u2011worm kayak tours from \u00a365pp (+64 7576 4233, waimarino.com). Earth & Sky (earthandsky.co.nz) has two-hour stargazing tours at Mount John Observatory for \u00a345 adults, \u00a325 children", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Road trips", "Family holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Fishing holidays", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays"], "title": "Black magic: New Zealand by night"},{"date": "2011-08-15T18:42:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Blizzards in New Zealand have grounded flights, closed roads and shut off power in what forecasters are describing as once-in-a-lifetime conditions.The cities of Wellington and Auckland saw their first snow for decades after an Antarctic blast moved north from South Island at the weekend, with the cold snap predicted to continue until Wednesday.MetService head forecaster, Peter Kreft, told the New Zealand Press Association: \"It's a once in many decades event. We are probably looking at something like \u2013 in terms of extent and severity \u2013 maybe 50 years,\" he said.Services across the country were disrupted on Monday, with electricity cut to thousands of homes in Wellington and north of Auckland. Schools, universities and courts were closed across much of the lower South Island.Flights and mail delivery had to be cancelled as well.Police warned that the snow would freeze overnight and create unsafe driving conditions.Residents took to the streets with cameras and cheers, enjoying the unusual conditions, while Wellington Zoo veterinarians took advantage by giving Happy Feet, the emperor penguin they found sick and starving on the west coast last June, a chance to enjoy the ice.Stephen Fry, who is in Wellington filming The Hobbit, described the atmosphere on Twitter. \"It's been an exciting day here in Wellington. Snow. That's unusual. NZ is same latitude as Melbourne so it's rare.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "New Zealand", "Australasia", "World news", "New Zealand holidays", "Travel", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand blizzards 'heaviest in 50 years'"},{"date": "2011-09-09T21:44:01Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "With no disrespect to the club scene in downtown Auckland, which I'm sure is humming, few people make the 24-hour flight to New Zealand for the nightlife. The lure for travellers is rather the opposite: the great outdoors, the extraordinary freak-of-nature landscape \u2013 where a volcano or glacier might be a short drive from a Caribbean-style beach \u2013 with perhaps a shot of extreme-sport adrenaline thrown in. After all that, you'd guess the main point of a night in New Zealand is to recover from the strenuous activity of the day.We, too, went to New Zealand \u2013 campervanning from Auckland in the north down to Milford Sound in the south \u2013 for the same reasons that draw everyone else: to enjoy the air, the beauty, the sea. It's just that we made a discovery. That stuff does not disappear at sunset. On the contrary, the wonder of New Zealand only gets more luminous after dark.We took the camper to Tauranga for an overnight fishing trip. Our youngest boy, then six, had only been fishing once \u2013 but, having glimpsed some of Robson Green's extreme fishing on TV, he had fallen for the idea of casting a line not from the riverbank but from a boat in the deep Pacific. So we booked an overnight trip with Mike, a Scottish-born engineer who had travelled the world before settling on the other side of it, taking novices like us out on his 12m boat to see if they could learn their nibbles from their hooks.The day was a delight, standing on deck in the warm sunshine, either throwing out lines while the boat bobbed in one spot, or trailing bait behind us as we sped ahead into the Bay of Plenty. Before too long all of us were reeling in our share of tarakihi, snapper or kingfish.But the real pleasure came as the sun began to set and day turned to evening. Mike steered the boat into the relatively sheltered waters behind Motiti Island, where we anchored for the night. In the small, cosy quarters below deck he gutted, breaded and fried the tarakihi \u2013 rapidly devoured by two boys usually reluctant to have fish anywhere near their plates. Exhausted from the day at sea, they were ready to get into bed and be rocked to sleep.Mike, however, knew the best was yet to come. He beckoned us back on to the fishing platform. The sun was long gone now, the ocean apparently black and empty \u2013 until our skipper turned on the bright deck light. Suddenly the waters were revealed as throbbing with life \u2013 full of silent, almost translucent jellyfish, swelling and pulsing in an elegant ballet around us.The show was not over. Mike reached for a rod, gently lowering it into the water, as if stirring a pot \u2013 then turned off the light. Once our eyes had adjusted, we saw that, though the jellyfish had disappeared from view, the darkness was no longer absolute. Instead, the surface of the water was marked by trails of neon-bright green light: the phosphorescent glow of plankton. The sight was somehow reassuring, like seeing landing lights, ready to guide our craft home.We were on the water again a couple of nights later \u2013 in McLaren Falls Park, a gorgeous preserve of native bush and birdlife bordering Lake McLaren, near Tauranga. We met our guides at dusk, snacking by the lakeside on fruit, cheese and plentiful supplies of New Zealand wine. Then, once all light had gone, we were handed our lifejackets and headtorches, and clambered into our canoes.There is something utterly dreamlike about paddling on water in total darkness. Where else but in your dreams do you float, seeing nothing at all, with no familiar points of orientation, unsure whether land is close or far away? Only the white and red dots of our guides' torches provided any clue.We glided on the water, avoiding marshes, steering down a narrow inlet until we were in a gorge lit up like the most dazzling planetarium. What we were looking at was a galaxy full of glow-worms, clinging to the steep rock walls on either side, each one a bright star. It was the dead of night, silent but for the sound of falling water or a paddle breaking the surface \u2013 the only sight coming from those billion points of light. Somehow the moment combined both serenity and awe.We hadn't planned it that way, but our next nocturnal jaunt had us gazing at stars of the genuine and distant variety. By now our campervan had trundled deep into the South Island, to the shores of Lake Tekapo \u2013 stunning enough by day, thanks to the electric blue water of the lake, so vivid it seems to have been touched up by the great Photoshop artist in the sky. But it's the heavens that are the big draw here, thanks to the presence on Mount John of the only research observatory in the world that opens its doors to the non-astronomer public. A combination of nature and smart planning \u2013 the local authority has imposed strict rules keeping light pollution to a minimum \u2013 has ensured a near-perfect view of the heavens. Would-be stargazers gather close to midnight in the storefront of the Earth & Sky company. Then it's into a minibus for the steep climb up the mountainside.There, astronomers using hand-held green laser beams point at the stars, including the nearest beyond the sun, Alpha Centauri \u2013 a mere 4.5 light years away \u2013 revealing that it's not in fact one star, but two. Then to the telescopes to gaze at the bright surface of \u2026 Jupiter, even glimpsing four of its moons. The effect of standing on that cold mountain in the early hours, on the other side of the world, gazing at distant worlds was humbling \u2013 making one feel tiny, a single creature on a single planet in a vast universe.The skies above Lake Tekapo are on trial as a future Unesco world heritage site. For our urban family from London it felt like a rare privilege indeed \u2013 and proof that the pure, unspoilt wonder of New Zealand does not end at sunset. Such beauty never sleeps.\u2022 Air New Zealand (airnewzealand.co.uk) has returns from Heathrow to Auckland from \u00a3940. Hiring a campervan sleeping two adults and two children under 10 costs from NZ$112 (\u00a360) a day from Kea Campers (+64\u00a09448 8800, keacampers.co.nz). Sunfish Charters (+64 7579 3816, sunfish.co.nz) has five-hour fishing trips for up to 12 people from \u00a3390. Waimarino.com has three-hour glow\u2011worm kayak tours from \u00a365pp (+64 7576 4233, waimarino.com). Earth & Sky (earthandsky.co.nz) has two-hour stargazing tours at Mount John Observatory for \u00a345 adults, \u00a325 children", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Road trips", "Family holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Fishing holidays", "Canoeing and kayaking holidays"], "title": "Black magic: New Zealand by night"},{"date": "2011-08-15T18:42:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Blizzards in New Zealand have grounded flights, closed roads and shut off power in what forecasters are describing as once-in-a-lifetime conditions.The cities of Wellington and Auckland saw their first snow for decades after an Antarctic blast moved north from South Island at the weekend, with the cold snap predicted to continue until Wednesday.MetService head forecaster, Peter Kreft, told the New Zealand Press Association: \"It's a once in many decades event. We are probably looking at something like \u2013 in terms of extent and severity \u2013 maybe 50 years,\" he said.Services across the country were disrupted on Monday, with electricity cut to thousands of homes in Wellington and north of Auckland. Schools, universities and courts were closed across much of the lower South Island.Flights and mail delivery had to be cancelled as well.Police warned that the snow would freeze overnight and create unsafe driving conditions.Residents took to the streets with cameras and cheers, enjoying the unusual conditions, while Wellington Zoo veterinarians took advantage by giving Happy Feet, the emperor penguin they found sick and starving on the west coast last June, a chance to enjoy the ice.Stephen Fry, who is in Wellington filming The Hobbit, described the atmosphere on Twitter. \"It's been an exciting day here in Wellington. Snow. That's unusual. NZ is same latitude as Melbourne so it's rare.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "New Zealand", "Australasia", "World news", "New Zealand holidays", "Travel", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand blizzards 'heaviest in 50 years'"},{"date": "2011-07-10T20:46:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The capital of New Zealand was once thought of as a tame colonial outpost. But not any more. These days, Wellington's home to so many A-list movie types \u2013 most famously Peter Jackson \u2013 that part of it has been nicknamed Wellywood. Those who know the city well speak of it as \"achingly cool\" with \"a taste for the outrageous\". Mark Baldwin, a choreographer brought up in these parts, points to Wellington's dazzling community of drag queens. \"There's a fabulous night club called the Purple Onion, full of enormous Maori queens.\" Fellow choreographer Javier de Frutos regards the city as food and drink heaven: \"The bartenders mix perhaps\u00a0the best vodka martinis I've\u00a0ever tasted.\"But there's another reason why famous names in dance are so fond of Wellington: it's home to the Royal New Zealand Ballet (RNZB), a highly enterprising company that \u2013 despite being based in a small country light years from anywhere \u2013 has forged a genuine reputation on the world stage. I try to keep this notion of a vivid, vibrant Wellington in my head as I cut through the New York bustle, on my way to the Metropolitan Opera House to meet Ethan Stiefel, the newly appointed director of RNZB.Stiefel is US ballet royalty: aged 38, though still blond and boyish, he joined New York City Ballet at 16 and has been principal dancer at American Ballet Theatre since 1997. As we walk through the Met, it's hard to imagine a man more happily at home in his work: we are constantly pausing for people to shake his hand, exchange greetings, or offer a high five.So why move to the other side of the world? Does he even know how far Wellington is from New York? \"Nope. I only know it takes about two days to get there, and that the jet lag is something else. Of course, I had a lot of\u00a0questions about going, and so did Gillian [Murphy, his ballerina fiancee]. But we're seeing it as an adventure. New Zealand looks great, and the company is full of possibilities.\"Certainly when RNZB visited Britain in 2004, audiences were impressed by its spirited, expressive dancers and unusually eclectic repertory. The company returns to Britain this week, touring work by an extremely snappy trio: De Frutos, New Zealand-born Andrew Simmons and Boston Ballet choreographer Jorma Elo, one of the world's hottest dance-makers, though still little known here.Stiefel is far from being the first foreigner to make a full-time home with RNZB. It was founded by Poul Gnatt, a dancer from the Royal Danish Ballet, who came to New Zealand on holiday in 1953 and liked it so much he never went back. There was very little ballet in the country then, so Gnatt imported dancers and pieces from Denmark. This\u00a0international tradition has stuck.\"It's always a pleasure to be there, despite the jet lag,\" says De Frutos, who has staged three works for RNZB. \"I love that the company embraces talent from all over the world.\" He's found it gratifyingly receptive. That's no small praise from a man whose work tends to attract controversy: his 2009 religious satire, Eternal Damnation to Sancho and Sanchez, was dropped by the BBC, which took fright at its perverted pope, pregnant nuns and priapic priests. Yet New Zealand takes De Frutos on board. Milagros, the sensuous, humid version of Rite of Spring he created for RNZB in 2003, has been a long-term success. \"After ruffling a few feathers first time round, it is still\u00a0in the rep. I feel very close to the dancers every time they perform it.\"There are many, however, who feel the company needs to counter its internationalism with a stronger, more indigenous identity. Baldwin, who danced with RNZB before emigrating to Britain in 1983, feels it suffers from a lack of confidence that's typical of the country as a whole. \"It's a lingering colonial hangover, a feeling that New Zealand still has to look to Europe or America for inspiration.\" He'd like to see the company \"generating work more organically, using its own choreographers, even appointing a\u00a0New Zealand director\".Stiefel is acutely aware that his position, as yet another foreigner, is a delicate one. \"I have to ask how I can make dance in New Zealand better, how I can develop a signature style for the company \u2013 one that works for the audience here as well as for the dancers, and that's sustainable over the long term. It can't just be about my own ideas.\"As we chat, it becomes clear that most of the issues Stiefel will be grappling with are those that vex companies the world over. First up is the company's classics. They're always in demand, yet RNZB is too small (32 dancers) to mount world-class productions of, say, Swan Lake. The company is also constrained by the fact\u00a0that it has to tour to towns and cities in New Zealand that are far from Wellington, playing to audiences who may have little knowledge of ballet. Stiefel believes it's important to adjust to both factors. \"I'm a stickler for form, but I believe it's possible to stay true to the essence of these 19th-century ballets while giving them a different life, a renewed point of view that will work for here.\"That belief will be roadtested with a new production of Giselle that Stiefel will mount with Johan Kobborg, a dancer and choreographer with our own Royal Ballet. \"We've already talked about it a lot, and we think there are ways of making the narrative of Giselle much stronger. The mime, for example. Ordinary people don't speak the way they did 100 years ago, and ballet mime should reflect that.\" But he doesn't just want to update all that coded classical sign language: \"We want to strengthen the storytelling, too, perhaps elaborating on the tension between Albrecht and Hilarion.\" Those are the\u00a0two men in love with Giselle; Stiefel plans to put some more thought into Myrtha, Queen of the Wilis, too.Second on Stiefel's list is the more contemporary repertory. He knows the company are very interested in his New York background: RNZB is barely known in the US, and it wants to change that. But, while his first mixed bill will be an all-American affair, including Balanchine and Benjamin Millepied, what interests him is making new work, in-house. Some will be choreographed by him, some by Kobborg; both men, as well as being good friends, have recently embarked on second careers as choreographers. In fact, it was Kobborg who persuaded Stiefel to apply for the New Zealand job. \"When I got it,\" Stiefel jokes, \"I rang him up and said, 'Look what you got me into, man! You got to help me out.'\" He adds: \"It's a nice connection, too \u2013 because Johan was originally a dancer with Royal Danish Ballet, just like Poul Gnatt.\"But, as Stiefel points out, he and Kobborg are still \"outsiders\", and his ultimate concern must be to nurture local talent. \"I want to be able to find choreographers and designers of a level that can be developed, so a long-term ballet culture can be created here.\"One problem he may face is that New Zealand, while able to produce lively talent, has a bad track record in keeping it. Simmons, the young choreographer whose ballet A Song in the Dark will be performed in Britain, has already left to work abroad. This doesn't surprise Baldwin, who \u2013 despite his own early success in New Zealand, including the launch of Limbs, its first modern dance group \u2013 couldn't wait to leave. \"New Zealand can feel very lonely. It's marvellous if you like sheep. There are over 70 million of them. But with a population of only about 4 million, there just isn't the concentration of people and activity to satisfy most artists.\"All Stiefel can hope to do is increase the level of creativity in his own company, making it more fun, more glamorous, more sustaining for home talent. His own reputation will help, as\u00a0will that of his fianc\u00e9e Murphy, who will be dancing with RNZB for much of\u00a0the year. So will the possibility that\u00a0Kobborg, while working in New\u00a0Zealand, will bring his own, even\u00a0starrier fiancee, Alina Cojocaru, to\u00a0guest.Stiefel, Murphy, Kobborg, Cojocaru: that would be quite a package. It could turn RNZB into quite a powerhouse, encouraging native dancers and choreographers to stay down under and be a part of it. Despite Stiefel's modest manner, he can't resist breaking a grin. \"It would,\" he says, \"be pretty amazing.\"\u2022 At Wales Millennium Centre, Cardiff (029-2063 6464), tonight; Barbican, London (0845 120 7500), Thursday to Saturday; then touring.", "tags": ["Ballet", "Dance", "Stage", "New Zealand holidays", "George Balanchine", "Culture"], "title": "Ethan Stiefel: New Zealand state of mind"},{"date": "2011-12-13T14:07:15Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "After 14 attempts I am still unable to reconcile Christmas Day with the hot sunshine of the north-east New Zealand city of Gisborne. Every December, as the sweat runs from my brow, I cannot shake off the thought that Yuletide is a winter festival best celebrated under cold, iron grey skies. Christmas spent on a beach among chilly bins, barbecues and surfboards can never compare to the contentment of toasting one's backside, and loved ones, in front of a blazing fire with a schooner of pale sherry in hand.Shops begin their Christmas sales drive in early spring when the public mood focuses on the summer holidays. The two events are a tragic coincidence. To my eye, plastic holly and imitation pines decorated with Chinese baubles look oddly out of place in the hot city. The juxtaposition of Christmas trees peppered with white cotton wool, and the cooling breeze of air conditioning units, has a surreal effect on my seasonal spirit. Unreality heaped upon unreality.Pictures of snow-covered lanes are themes on northern Christmas cards. Many of my neighbours have never seen snow in the raw. They have rarely felt the cold. As our road tarmac softens in midday heat, greetings cards will depict a jolly Santa riding a surfboard while a smiling Mrs Santa prepares a barbie.Christmas lunch? Forget roast turkey, stuffing, cranberry sauce and vegetables. Don't even imagine a homemade pudding, four months old and slathered in brandy sauce. This is the great outdoors, so think grilled steak or crayfish followed by fruit salad and ice-cream washed down with a few stubbies from the ice coffin. Alfresco lunch is taken, usually with friends and family, under a sun umbrella or marquee. It really is summer and only by wearing a sun-bleached paper crown am I reminded that it is also Christmas.While in Britain the population stirs itself to listen to the Queen's post-prandial speech, Kiwis will not. It does not help the royal cause that this commonwealth nation is 12 hours ahead of Her Majesty and at the very moment she might have captured her subjects' undivided attention, she is still abed.I suggest an alternative to Christmas in the heat. Why don't we transfer Yuletide to June 25? It is winter then and we can all stay at home with the doors shut and wear our new woolly jumpers. My family looks at me as if I'm daft.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a 'Letter from' one of its readers from around the world. Submissions should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people and be sent to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com ", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Christmas"], "title": "Letter from New Zealand: seasonal cheer"},{"date": "2011-12-13T14:07:15Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "After 14 attempts I am still unable to reconcile Christmas Day with the hot sunshine of the north-east New Zealand city of Gisborne. Every December, as the sweat runs from my brow, I cannot shake off the thought that Yuletide is a winter festival best celebrated under cold, iron grey skies. Christmas spent on a beach among chilly bins, barbecues and surfboards can never compare to the contentment of toasting one's backside, and loved ones, in front of a blazing fire with a schooner of pale sherry in hand.Shops begin their Christmas sales drive in early spring when the public mood focuses on the summer holidays. The two events are a tragic coincidence. To my eye, plastic holly and imitation pines decorated with Chinese baubles look oddly out of place in the hot city. The juxtaposition of Christmas trees peppered with white cotton wool, and the cooling breeze of air conditioning units, has a surreal effect on my seasonal spirit. Unreality heaped upon unreality.Pictures of snow-covered lanes are themes on northern Christmas cards. Many of my neighbours have never seen snow in the raw. They have rarely felt the cold. As our road tarmac softens in midday heat, greetings cards will depict a jolly Santa riding a surfboard while a smiling Mrs Santa prepares a barbie.Christmas lunch? Forget roast turkey, stuffing, cranberry sauce and vegetables. Don't even imagine a homemade pudding, four months old and slathered in brandy sauce. This is the great outdoors, so think grilled steak or crayfish followed by fruit salad and ice-cream washed down with a few stubbies from the ice coffin. Alfresco lunch is taken, usually with friends and family, under a sun umbrella or marquee. It really is summer and only by wearing a sun-bleached paper crown am I reminded that it is also Christmas.While in Britain the population stirs itself to listen to the Queen's post-prandial speech, Kiwis will not. It does not help the royal cause that this commonwealth nation is 12 hours ahead of Her Majesty and at the very moment she might have captured her subjects' undivided attention, she is still abed.I suggest an alternative to Christmas in the heat. Why don't we transfer Yuletide to June 25? It is winter then and we can all stay at home with the doors shut and wear our new woolly jumpers. My family looks at me as if I'm daft.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a 'Letter from' one of its readers from around the world. Submissions should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people and be sent to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com ", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Christmas"], "title": "Letter from New Zealand: seasonal cheer"},{"date": "2011-11-24T17:30:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand bellbird, Anthornis melanura, Sparrman, 1786 (protonym, Certhia melanura), also known as the bellbird and by its M\u0101ori names, korimako or makomako, photographed at Tiritiri Matangi Island, the restored island in the Hauraki Gulf close to Auckland, New Zealand. Image: Richard Thomas/TRAFFIC, October 2007 (with permission) [velociraptorize].Handheld digiscoped using Nikon Coolpix and 20x Swarovski telescope  Question: This small New Zealand mystery bird is known for its stunning duets. Can you identify this bird's taxonomic family and species? Can you identify this bird's gender? Can you tell me more about this bird's song?Response: This is an adult male New Zealand bellbird, Anthornis melanura, an endemic of New Zealand that is a member of the Meliphagidae family of honeyeaters and Australian chats. This family is large and diverse, comprising a number of passerines that are most common in Australia and New Guinea. Their range also includes New Zealand, Wallacea and the Pacific islands, extending as far east as Samoa and Tonga. On the other hand, the island of Bali, just on the other side of Wallace's Line, has only one species.When not provided with location data, it is easy to confuse the honeyeaters with the sunbirds (family: Nectariniidae), which are found in Africa and southern Asia. The unrelated meliphagids and nectarinids look and behave similarly, thanks to convergent evolution -- the result of their similar diets, habitats and habits. The meliphagids feed on nectar, fruit and insects, and they feed their rapidly growing chicks primarily on insects. On many south Pacific islands, the meliphagids are important pollinators of native plant species. This bird is named for its gorgeous song, which consists of three distinct sounds that resemble the chiming of distant bells. Bellbirds from different areas in New Zealand have identifiable regional dialects. Their songs may vary enormously even over short distances and over time. Further, some people report that males and females of this duetting species sing different songs, at least during some parts of the year. And of course, juvenile song is identifiable too, because they are still practicing their song.Embedded below are two recordings of singing bellbirds, thanks to the talented recordists who freely share their work at Xeno-Canto. I think the first recording is simply stunning. It is 1:59 long:Recorded on 15 December 2004 by Patrik \u00c5berg on Te Anaua Downs, New Zealand [audio link]. Here's another recording, this one is 1:28 long, of a bellbird singing and chattering whilst foraging on flowering trees, courtesy of Xeno-Canto: Recorded on 6 March 2010 by Daniel Lane at Heywood Terrace, Christchurch, South Island, New Zealand [audio link].Here's a video of singing male bellbird, recorded on Tiritiri Matangi Island (uploaded 21 August 2007):Visit HenryFalkner's YouTube channel [video link]. You are invited to review all of the daily mystery birds by going to their dedicated graphic index page. If you have bird images, video or mp3 files that you'd like to share with a large and (mostly) appreciative international audience here at The Guardian, feel free to contact me to learn more. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. twitter: @GrrlScientist facebook: grrlscientistemail: grrlscientist@gmail.com", "tags": ["Zoology", "Science", "Birds", "Wildlife", "Animals"], "title": "Mystery bird: New Zealand bellbird, Anthornis melanura | @GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2011-12-13T14:07:15Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "After 14 attempts I am still unable to reconcile Christmas Day with the hot sunshine of the north-east New Zealand city of Gisborne. Every December, as the sweat runs from my brow, I cannot shake off the thought that Yuletide is a winter festival best celebrated under cold, iron grey skies. Christmas spent on a beach among chilly bins, barbecues and surfboards can never compare to the contentment of toasting one's backside, and loved ones, in front of a blazing fire with a schooner of pale sherry in hand.Shops begin their Christmas sales drive in early spring when the public mood focuses on the summer holidays. The two events are a tragic coincidence. To my eye, plastic holly and imitation pines decorated with Chinese baubles look oddly out of place in the hot city. The juxtaposition of Christmas trees peppered with white cotton wool, and the cooling breeze of air conditioning units, has a surreal effect on my seasonal spirit. Unreality heaped upon unreality.Pictures of snow-covered lanes are themes on northern Christmas cards. Many of my neighbours have never seen snow in the raw. They have rarely felt the cold. As our road tarmac softens in midday heat, greetings cards will depict a jolly Santa riding a surfboard while a smiling Mrs Santa prepares a barbie.Christmas lunch? Forget roast turkey, stuffing, cranberry sauce and vegetables. Don't even imagine a homemade pudding, four months old and slathered in brandy sauce. This is the great outdoors, so think grilled steak or crayfish followed by fruit salad and ice-cream washed down with a few stubbies from the ice coffin. Alfresco lunch is taken, usually with friends and family, under a sun umbrella or marquee. It really is summer and only by wearing a sun-bleached paper crown am I reminded that it is also Christmas.While in Britain the population stirs itself to listen to the Queen's post-prandial speech, Kiwis will not. It does not help the royal cause that this commonwealth nation is 12 hours ahead of Her Majesty and at the very moment she might have captured her subjects' undivided attention, she is still abed.I suggest an alternative to Christmas in the heat. Why don't we transfer Yuletide to June 25? It is winter then and we can all stay at home with the doors shut and wear our new woolly jumpers. My family looks at me as if I'm daft.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a 'Letter from' one of its readers from around the world. Submissions should focus on giving our readers a clear sense of a place and its people and be sent to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com ", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Christmas"], "title": "Letter from New Zealand: seasonal cheer"},{"date": "2011-11-24T17:30:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand bellbird, Anthornis melanura, Sparrman, 1786 (protonym, Certhia melanura), also known as the bellbird and by its M\u0101ori names, korimako or makomako, photographed at Tiritiri Matangi Island, the restored island in the Hauraki Gulf close to Auckland, New Zealand. Image: Richard Thomas/TRAFFIC, October 2007 (with permission) [velociraptorize].Handheld digiscoped using Nikon Coolpix and 20x Swarovski telescope  Question: This small New Zealand mystery bird is known for its stunning duets. Can you identify this bird's taxonomic family and species? Can you identify this bird's gender? Can you tell me more about this bird's song?Response: This is an adult male New Zealand bellbird, Anthornis melanura, an endemic of New Zealand that is a member of the Meliphagidae family of honeyeaters and Australian chats. This family is large and diverse, comprising a number of passerines that are most common in Australia and New Guinea. Their range also includes New Zealand, Wallacea and the Pacific islands, extending as far east as Samoa and Tonga. On the other hand, the island of Bali, just on the other side of Wallace's Line, has only one species.When not provided with location data, it is easy to confuse the honeyeaters with the sunbirds (family: Nectariniidae), which are found in Africa and southern Asia. The unrelated meliphagids and nectarinids look and behave similarly, thanks to convergent evolution -- the result of their similar diets, habitats and habits. The meliphagids feed on nectar, fruit and insects, and they feed their rapidly growing chicks primarily on insects. On many south Pacific islands, the meliphagids are important pollinators of native plant species. This bird is named for its gorgeous song, which consists of three distinct sounds that resemble the chiming of distant bells. Bellbirds from different areas in New Zealand have identifiable regional dialects. Their songs may vary enormously even over short distances and over time. Further, some people report that males and females of this duetting species sing different songs, at least during some parts of the year. And of course, juvenile song is identifiable too, because they are still practicing their song.Embedded below are two recordings of singing bellbirds, thanks to the talented recordists who freely share their work at Xeno-Canto. I think the first recording is simply stunning. It is 1:59 long:Recorded on 15 December 2004 by Patrik \u00c5berg on Te Anaua Downs, New Zealand [audio link]. Here's another recording, this one is 1:28 long, of a bellbird singing and chattering whilst foraging on flowering trees, courtesy of Xeno-Canto: Recorded on 6 March 2010 by Daniel Lane at Heywood Terrace, Christchurch, South Island, New Zealand [audio link].Here's a video of singing male bellbird, recorded on Tiritiri Matangi Island (uploaded 21 August 2007):Visit HenryFalkner's YouTube channel [video link]. You are invited to review all of the daily mystery birds by going to their dedicated graphic index page. If you have bird images, video or mp3 files that you'd like to share with a large and (mostly) appreciative international audience here at The Guardian, feel free to contact me to learn more. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. twitter: @GrrlScientist facebook: grrlscientistemail: grrlscientist@gmail.com", "tags": ["Zoology", "Science", "Birds", "Wildlife", "Animals"], "title": "Mystery bird: New Zealand bellbird, Anthornis melanura | @GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2011-12-16T18:29:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "One of the most touching moments of the year arrived with an email to our children's books website from a group of New Zealand schoolchildren, mysteriously named Faultline Fiction Fanatics.It went: \"We would love to be part of a book club, especially one so far away. We are a group of aged 10 and 11-year-old boys and girls from children from Christchurch, New Zealand.\"In February our beautiful city suffered a massive earthquake\u2026 It is the earthquake which inspired our name. Reading takes our minds of all the damage that is around us and helps us cope. And we love it.\"Their favourite author, they said, was Michael Morpurgo. We were so touched by their message that we mentioned it to him during a podcast interview, and he sprang into action with this message to them, pledging to have copies of all his books sent to them.Speaking from London's National Theatre, scene of the hit stage version of his novel, War Horse, he said: \"I know you people have been living through really difficult times because you've lost a lot, and it must have been appalling.\"He challenged the group to review his books and tell him how they could be improved. \"Make me cry, go on try!\"The books are now making their way around the globe and will soon be landing on the Fiction Fanatics' doormats. Meanwhile they sent us this eloquent account of their experiences in the earthquake and its aftermath.", "tags": ["Books", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Teen books", "Children and teenagers", "Michael Morpurgo", "War (children and teens)"], "title": "Michael Morpurgo, an earthquake and a message to  New Zealand"},{"date": "2012-01-06T23:13:11Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Eleven people died when a hot air balloon burst into flames and crashed in New Zealand's worst air accident for more than three decades.Witnesses reported seeing flames rising 10 metres (32ft) from the balloon's basket before it came down near farmland close to the town of Carterton, about 80km (50 miles) northeast of Wellington on New Zealand's North Island.The balloon, which was on a scenic flight of the area and was carrying a mixture of locals and visitors, including five couples, came down after a fire on board, according to police.One man who saw the dark blue and maroon striped balloon as it was above some trees described seeing flames bursting from its basket as it plummeted to the ground. \"There were flames licking up the side of the basket, right up the guy ropes,\" David McKinlay told TVNZ.When the flames reached the canopy, the balloon plunged to the ground, he said. \"There was a big, long pencil-like flame maybe 20 metres long, heading towards the ground at a terrible speed.\"Another witness said he had waved to the passengers as the balloon passed overhead before it \"clipped a power wire and tried to go up, then they've sort of gone across the road then it's caught fire.\"Other witnesses said they saw people appearing to try to jump out of the basket after the balloon hit power lines.Officials said the stricken balloon had hit power lines as it fell, causing electricity cuts in the area for about 20 minutes.Police, who were first alerted to the crash at about 7.30am on Saturdaytoday local time, said they have no details yet of what caused the crash in clear, bright conditions with minimal wind. They said they received about half a dozen calls from residents reporting the balloon \u2013 a Cameron A-210, which can carry 10 passengers plus one pilot \u2013 was in difficulty.The New Zealand Herald, which quoted a senior police official as saying that a fire had ignited on board, reported that the owner of the balloon was thought to be Lance Hopping, the operator of Ballooning New Zealand Ltd, although it is not known if he was on board the flight. He has more than 1,000 hours of commercial ballooning experience. The region is well known for its hot air ballooning and Hopping is the safety manager of the popular Balloons Over Wairarapa event, according to organiser Jonathan Hooker.New Zealand's transport accident investigation commission has launched an inquiry into the incident.It is the worst New Zealand aviation disaster since 1979, when a sightseeing flight from Auckland collided with Mount Erebus on Ross Island, Antarctica, killing all 237 passengers and 20 crew on board.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Air transport"], "title": "Hot air balloon crashes in New Zealand killing 11"},{"date": "2012-01-06T23:13:11Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Eleven people died when a hot air balloon burst into flames and crashed in New Zealand's worst air accident for more than three decades.Witnesses reported seeing flames rising 10 metres (32ft) from the balloon's basket before it came down near farmland close to the town of Carterton, about 80km (50 miles) northeast of Wellington on New Zealand's North Island.The balloon, which was on a scenic flight of the area and was carrying a mixture of locals and visitors, including five couples, came down after a fire on board, according to police.One man who saw the dark blue and maroon striped balloon as it was above some trees described seeing flames bursting from its basket as it plummeted to the ground. \"There were flames licking up the side of the basket, right up the guy ropes,\" David McKinlay told TVNZ.When the flames reached the canopy, the balloon plunged to the ground, he said. \"There was a big, long pencil-like flame maybe 20 metres long, heading towards the ground at a terrible speed.\"Another witness said he had waved to the passengers as the balloon passed overhead before it \"clipped a power wire and tried to go up, then they've sort of gone across the road then it's caught fire.\"Other witnesses said they saw people appearing to try to jump out of the basket after the balloon hit power lines.Officials said the stricken balloon had hit power lines as it fell, causing electricity cuts in the area for about 20 minutes.Police, who were first alerted to the crash at about 7.30am on Saturdaytoday local time, said they have no details yet of what caused the crash in clear, bright conditions with minimal wind. They said they received about half a dozen calls from residents reporting the balloon \u2013 a Cameron A-210, which can carry 10 passengers plus one pilot \u2013 was in difficulty.The New Zealand Herald, which quoted a senior police official as saying that a fire had ignited on board, reported that the owner of the balloon was thought to be Lance Hopping, the operator of Ballooning New Zealand Ltd, although it is not known if he was on board the flight. He has more than 1,000 hours of commercial ballooning experience. The region is well known for its hot air ballooning and Hopping is the safety manager of the popular Balloons Over Wairarapa event, according to organiser Jonathan Hooker.New Zealand's transport accident investigation commission has launched an inquiry into the incident.It is the worst New Zealand aviation disaster since 1979, when a sightseeing flight from Auckland collided with Mount Erebus on Ross Island, Antarctica, killing all 237 passengers and 20 crew on board.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Air transport"], "title": "Hot air balloon crashes in New Zealand killing 11"},{"date": "2012-01-06T18:39:18Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "You can perhaps understand why officials in New Zealand might think that naming a newborn baby Lucifer is not giving it the fairest start in life. But why, as new statistics show, did they prevent 49 sets of parents from calling their child Justice, a not uncommon name in parts of Africa?Justice was the name most often refused by New Zealand registrars in the 10 years to last June, the country's department for internal affairs said. Next on the list came Princess, with 24 thwarted attempts, King (21) and Prince (20).Under New Zealand law babies' names cannot be offensive, too long \u2013 100 characters is the limit \u2013 or contain religious references, which put paid to six planned little Lucifers. They are also not allowed to be self-declared titles, a clause which accounted for the Justices, lest they be confused for real judges, as well as the mini-royals. The rule also covers spelling variants, meaning Justus and Juztice were also turned down.The only other rule breached in the top 10 was that on single-letter names \u2013 six parents chose J.Further down the list, which was released alongside a far more sober roundup of most popular registered children's names during 2011 \u2013 Liam for boys, Ruby for girls \u2013 the ideas become even more unexpected.Three parents chose Messiah, six lots of Roman numeral fans tried I, II or III, while one each opted for an asterisk symbol, a full stop and a \"/\" symbol, and one baby girl avoided being landed with Queen Victoria.Even luckier escapes were in store for youngsters otherwise facing a life explaining that their names really are Mafia No Fear, V8, Anal or 89.Ross McPherson, deputy registrar general for the internal affairs department, said no specific names were banned, even if officials might feel they are potentially embarrassing for the child.\"In general terms, people can register whatever names they like for their children. However, some rules do apply,\" McPherson said. \"A name can be rejected if it might cause offence to a reasonable person, or if it is, includes or resembles an official rank or title, or if it is unreasonably long. So, one couldn't, for example, register a swear word as a name for their child or couldn't, without adequate justification, register a name of Justice, Colonel or Royal.\"Some parents, it seems, are devising ever-more cunning ways to express their views. Despite debate over whether it should be permitted, 84 babies were registered last year as Nevaeh, or heaven spelled in reverse, making it the 45th most popular girls' name.The issue of unusual names created headlines in 2008 when a New Zealand judge placed a nine-year-old girl in court guardianship so she could change her name from Talula Does the Hula From Hawaii. In a potential lesson to similarly minded parents, the court heard how the girl told people her name was K to avoid being teased.The judge, Rob Murfitt, cited a series of other blocked names \u2013 which never made the official statistics and were thus presumably barred at an earlier stage \u2013 including Sex Fruit, Keenan Got Lucy and Yeah Detroit.", "tags": ["Baby names", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand sees no Justice in quirky baby names"},{"date": "2012-01-06T23:13:11Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Eleven people died when a hot air balloon burst into flames and crashed in New Zealand's worst air accident for more than three decades.Witnesses reported seeing flames rising 10 metres (32ft) from the balloon's basket before it came down near farmland close to the town of Carterton, about 80km (50 miles) northeast of Wellington on New Zealand's North Island.The balloon, which was on a scenic flight of the area and was carrying a mixture of locals and visitors, including five couples, came down after a fire on board, according to police.One man who saw the dark blue and maroon striped balloon as it was above some trees described seeing flames bursting from its basket as it plummeted to the ground. \"There were flames licking up the side of the basket, right up the guy ropes,\" David McKinlay told TVNZ.When the flames reached the canopy, the balloon plunged to the ground, he said. \"There was a big, long pencil-like flame maybe 20 metres long, heading towards the ground at a terrible speed.\"Another witness said he had waved to the passengers as the balloon passed overhead before it \"clipped a power wire and tried to go up, then they've sort of gone across the road then it's caught fire.\"Other witnesses said they saw people appearing to try to jump out of the basket after the balloon hit power lines.Officials said the stricken balloon had hit power lines as it fell, causing electricity cuts in the area for about 20 minutes.Police, who were first alerted to the crash at about 7.30am on Saturdaytoday local time, said they have no details yet of what caused the crash in clear, bright conditions with minimal wind. They said they received about half a dozen calls from residents reporting the balloon \u2013 a Cameron A-210, which can carry 10 passengers plus one pilot \u2013 was in difficulty.The New Zealand Herald, which quoted a senior police official as saying that a fire had ignited on board, reported that the owner of the balloon was thought to be Lance Hopping, the operator of Ballooning New Zealand Ltd, although it is not known if he was on board the flight. He has more than 1,000 hours of commercial ballooning experience. The region is well known for its hot air ballooning and Hopping is the safety manager of the popular Balloons Over Wairarapa event, according to organiser Jonathan Hooker.New Zealand's transport accident investigation commission has launched an inquiry into the incident.It is the worst New Zealand aviation disaster since 1979, when a sightseeing flight from Auckland collided with Mount Erebus on Ross Island, Antarctica, killing all 237 passengers and 20 crew on board.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Air transport"], "title": "Hot air balloon crashes in New Zealand killing 11"},{"date": "2012-01-06T18:39:18Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "You can perhaps understand why officials in New Zealand might think that naming a newborn baby Lucifer is not giving it the fairest start in life. But why, as new statistics show, did they prevent 49 sets of parents from calling their child Justice, a not uncommon name in parts of Africa?Justice was the name most often refused by New Zealand registrars in the 10 years to last June, the country's department for internal affairs said. Next on the list came Princess, with 24 thwarted attempts, King (21) and Prince (20).Under New Zealand law babies' names cannot be offensive, too long \u2013 100 characters is the limit \u2013 or contain religious references, which put paid to six planned little Lucifers. They are also not allowed to be self-declared titles, a clause which accounted for the Justices, lest they be confused for real judges, as well as the mini-royals. The rule also covers spelling variants, meaning Justus and Juztice were also turned down.The only other rule breached in the top 10 was that on single-letter names \u2013 six parents chose J.Further down the list, which was released alongside a far more sober roundup of most popular registered children's names during 2011 \u2013 Liam for boys, Ruby for girls \u2013 the ideas become even more unexpected.Three parents chose Messiah, six lots of Roman numeral fans tried I, II or III, while one each opted for an asterisk symbol, a full stop and a \"/\" symbol, and one baby girl avoided being landed with Queen Victoria.Even luckier escapes were in store for youngsters otherwise facing a life explaining that their names really are Mafia No Fear, V8, Anal or 89.Ross McPherson, deputy registrar general for the internal affairs department, said no specific names were banned, even if officials might feel they are potentially embarrassing for the child.\"In general terms, people can register whatever names they like for their children. However, some rules do apply,\" McPherson said. \"A name can be rejected if it might cause offence to a reasonable person, or if it is, includes or resembles an official rank or title, or if it is unreasonably long. So, one couldn't, for example, register a swear word as a name for their child or couldn't, without adequate justification, register a name of Justice, Colonel or Royal.\"Some parents, it seems, are devising ever-more cunning ways to express their views. Despite debate over whether it should be permitted, 84 babies were registered last year as Nevaeh, or heaven spelled in reverse, making it the 45th most popular girls' name.The issue of unusual names created headlines in 2008 when a New Zealand judge placed a nine-year-old girl in court guardianship so she could change her name from Talula Does the Hula From Hawaii. In a potential lesson to similarly minded parents, the court heard how the girl told people her name was K to avoid being teased.The judge, Rob Murfitt, cited a series of other blocked names \u2013 which never made the official statistics and were thus presumably barred at an earlier stage \u2013 including Sex Fruit, Keenan Got Lucy and Yeah Detroit.", "tags": ["Baby names", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand sees no Justice in quirky baby names"},{"date": "2012-01-23T18:25:32Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Kim Dotcom, the internet mogul accused by the FBI of earning $175m (\u00a3112m) in illegal profits through file-sharing site Megaupload.com, has denied internet piracy in a New Zealand court.A judge in North Shore declined to release the German national on bail after prosecutors argued the 38-year old, also known as Kim Schmitz, was a flight risk \"at the extreme end of the scale\" because it was believed he had access to funds, had multiple identities and had a history of fleeing criminal charges.Dotcom was arrested at his leased country estate in New Zealand on Saturday at the request of the FBI, who have charged him in a Virginia court with racketeering, copyright infringement and money laundering and are seeking his extradition.They claim he and a group of co-conspirators caused $500m of harm to copyright holders. Police cut Dotcom out of a safe room at his mansion on Saturday after he had barricaded himself in, because, according to his lawyer, he was frightened and panicked.\"Despite our staff clearly identifying themselves, Mr Dotcom retreated into the house and activated a number of electronic-locking mechanisms,\" said Detective Inspector Grant Wormald from the Organised and Financial Crime Agency New Zealand. \"Once they gained entry into this room, they found Mr Dotcom near a firearm which had the appearance of a shortened shotgun.\"The FBI estimates that Dotcom personally made around $115,000 a day during 2010 from his empire. The list of property to be seized featured nearly 20 luxury cars, including a pink Cadillac, several Mercedes, a Maserati, a Lambourghini and a Rolls Royce Phantom with the number plate \"God\".Dotcom led an extravagant playboy lifestyle and posted films online showing himself partying on yachts and stepping off private jets and personalised helicopters.One film showsed him surrounded by topless women and men spraying champagne on board a yacht during a \"crazy weekend\" in Monaco reported to have cost $10m. \"Fast cars, hot girls, superyachts and amazing parties. Decadence rules,\" said the commentary accompanying the clip, which Dotcom dedicated to \"all my fans\".His lawyer, Paul Davison, told the bail hearing Dotcom posed no threat of absconding or restarting his businesses, arguing that his client had co-operated fully, his passports had been seized and his funds frozen.\"He is not the sort of person who will pass unnoticed through our customs and immigration lines and controls,\" he said of the former hacker, who is reportedly 6ft 6ins tall and weighs more than 20 stone.Davison told the court that Megaupload's business was being misrepresented and authorities were being aggressive to add drama to the case.\"His business did not reproduce or copy material as alleged,\" he told the court, adding that copyright-holders had been given access to Megaupload to identify improper posting of material. He likened the site to YouTube, where people \"promoted their creativity\".Judge David McNaughton said the bail application was too complicated for an immediate ruling, adding he would issue a written decision no later than Wednesday.\"Given the breadth of issues covered in this bail application and the seriousness of the issues, I am going to reserve my decision,\" he said.Dotcom smiled and waved at around 20 supporters who filled the courtroom and spoke to them after the judge's decision.\"Hey guys thanks for turning up, I appreciate it,\" he said, wishing a female supporter a \"happy birthday\". Davison said Dotcom was \"realistic about what is happening\".\"He would obviously prefer to be at large,\" he told reporters outside the court. \"He doesn't want to be there any longer than he absolutely has to be.\"", "tags": ["Megaupload", "Internet", "Technology", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "FBI", "US news", "Piracy", "Digital media", "Media", "Kim Dotcom"], "title": "Internet mogul Kim Dotcom denies internet piracy in New Zealand court"},{"date": "2012-01-06T23:13:11Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Eleven people died when a hot air balloon burst into flames and crashed in New Zealand's worst air accident for more than three decades.Witnesses reported seeing flames rising 10 metres (32ft) from the balloon's basket before it came down near farmland close to the town of Carterton, about 80km (50 miles) northeast of Wellington on New Zealand's North Island.The balloon, which was on a scenic flight of the area and was carrying a mixture of locals and visitors, including five couples, came down after a fire on board, according to police.One man who saw the dark blue and maroon striped balloon as it was above some trees described seeing flames bursting from its basket as it plummeted to the ground. \"There were flames licking up the side of the basket, right up the guy ropes,\" David McKinlay told TVNZ.When the flames reached the canopy, the balloon plunged to the ground, he said. \"There was a big, long pencil-like flame maybe 20 metres long, heading towards the ground at a terrible speed.\"Another witness said he had waved to the passengers as the balloon passed overhead before it \"clipped a power wire and tried to go up, then they've sort of gone across the road then it's caught fire.\"Other witnesses said they saw people appearing to try to jump out of the basket after the balloon hit power lines.Officials said the stricken balloon had hit power lines as it fell, causing electricity cuts in the area for about 20 minutes.Police, who were first alerted to the crash at about 7.30am on Saturdaytoday local time, said they have no details yet of what caused the crash in clear, bright conditions with minimal wind. They said they received about half a dozen calls from residents reporting the balloon \u2013 a Cameron A-210, which can carry 10 passengers plus one pilot \u2013 was in difficulty.The New Zealand Herald, which quoted a senior police official as saying that a fire had ignited on board, reported that the owner of the balloon was thought to be Lance Hopping, the operator of Ballooning New Zealand Ltd, although it is not known if he was on board the flight. He has more than 1,000 hours of commercial ballooning experience. The region is well known for its hot air ballooning and Hopping is the safety manager of the popular Balloons Over Wairarapa event, according to organiser Jonathan Hooker.New Zealand's transport accident investigation commission has launched an inquiry into the incident.It is the worst New Zealand aviation disaster since 1979, when a sightseeing flight from Auckland collided with Mount Erebus on Ross Island, Antarctica, killing all 237 passengers and 20 crew on board.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "World news", "Air transport"], "title": "Hot air balloon crashes in New Zealand killing 11"},{"date": "2012-01-06T18:39:18Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "You can perhaps understand why officials in New Zealand might think that naming a newborn baby Lucifer is not giving it the fairest start in life. But why, as new statistics show, did they prevent 49 sets of parents from calling their child Justice, a not uncommon name in parts of Africa?Justice was the name most often refused by New Zealand registrars in the 10 years to last June, the country's department for internal affairs said. Next on the list came Princess, with 24 thwarted attempts, King (21) and Prince (20).Under New Zealand law babies' names cannot be offensive, too long \u2013 100 characters is the limit \u2013 or contain religious references, which put paid to six planned little Lucifers. They are also not allowed to be self-declared titles, a clause which accounted for the Justices, lest they be confused for real judges, as well as the mini-royals. The rule also covers spelling variants, meaning Justus and Juztice were also turned down.The only other rule breached in the top 10 was that on single-letter names \u2013 six parents chose J.Further down the list, which was released alongside a far more sober roundup of most popular registered children's names during 2011 \u2013 Liam for boys, Ruby for girls \u2013 the ideas become even more unexpected.Three parents chose Messiah, six lots of Roman numeral fans tried I, II or III, while one each opted for an asterisk symbol, a full stop and a \"/\" symbol, and one baby girl avoided being landed with Queen Victoria.Even luckier escapes were in store for youngsters otherwise facing a life explaining that their names really are Mafia No Fear, V8, Anal or 89.Ross McPherson, deputy registrar general for the internal affairs department, said no specific names were banned, even if officials might feel they are potentially embarrassing for the child.\"In general terms, people can register whatever names they like for their children. However, some rules do apply,\" McPherson said. \"A name can be rejected if it might cause offence to a reasonable person, or if it is, includes or resembles an official rank or title, or if it is unreasonably long. So, one couldn't, for example, register a swear word as a name for their child or couldn't, without adequate justification, register a name of Justice, Colonel or Royal.\"Some parents, it seems, are devising ever-more cunning ways to express their views. Despite debate over whether it should be permitted, 84 babies were registered last year as Nevaeh, or heaven spelled in reverse, making it the 45th most popular girls' name.The issue of unusual names created headlines in 2008 when a New Zealand judge placed a nine-year-old girl in court guardianship so she could change her name from Talula Does the Hula From Hawaii. In a potential lesson to similarly minded parents, the court heard how the girl told people her name was K to avoid being teased.The judge, Rob Murfitt, cited a series of other blocked names \u2013 which never made the official statistics and were thus presumably barred at an earlier stage \u2013 including Sex Fruit, Keenan Got Lucy and Yeah Detroit.", "tags": ["Baby names", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand sees no Justice in quirky baby names"},{"date": "2012-01-23T18:25:32Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Kim Dotcom, the internet mogul accused by the FBI of earning $175m (\u00a3112m) in illegal profits through file-sharing site Megaupload.com, has denied internet piracy in a New Zealand court.A judge in North Shore declined to release the German national on bail after prosecutors argued the 38-year old, also known as Kim Schmitz, was a flight risk \"at the extreme end of the scale\" because it was believed he had access to funds, had multiple identities and had a history of fleeing criminal charges.Dotcom was arrested at his leased country estate in New Zealand on Saturday at the request of the FBI, who have charged him in a Virginia court with racketeering, copyright infringement and money laundering and are seeking his extradition.They claim he and a group of co-conspirators caused $500m of harm to copyright holders. Police cut Dotcom out of a safe room at his mansion on Saturday after he had barricaded himself in, because, according to his lawyer, he was frightened and panicked.\"Despite our staff clearly identifying themselves, Mr Dotcom retreated into the house and activated a number of electronic-locking mechanisms,\" said Detective Inspector Grant Wormald from the Organised and Financial Crime Agency New Zealand. \"Once they gained entry into this room, they found Mr Dotcom near a firearm which had the appearance of a shortened shotgun.\"The FBI estimates that Dotcom personally made around $115,000 a day during 2010 from his empire. The list of property to be seized featured nearly 20 luxury cars, including a pink Cadillac, several Mercedes, a Maserati, a Lambourghini and a Rolls Royce Phantom with the number plate \"God\".Dotcom led an extravagant playboy lifestyle and posted films online showing himself partying on yachts and stepping off private jets and personalised helicopters.One film showsed him surrounded by topless women and men spraying champagne on board a yacht during a \"crazy weekend\" in Monaco reported to have cost $10m. \"Fast cars, hot girls, superyachts and amazing parties. Decadence rules,\" said the commentary accompanying the clip, which Dotcom dedicated to \"all my fans\".His lawyer, Paul Davison, told the bail hearing Dotcom posed no threat of absconding or restarting his businesses, arguing that his client had co-operated fully, his passports had been seized and his funds frozen.\"He is not the sort of person who will pass unnoticed through our customs and immigration lines and controls,\" he said of the former hacker, who is reportedly 6ft 6ins tall and weighs more than 20 stone.Davison told the court that Megaupload's business was being misrepresented and authorities were being aggressive to add drama to the case.\"His business did not reproduce or copy material as alleged,\" he told the court, adding that copyright-holders had been given access to Megaupload to identify improper posting of material. He likened the site to YouTube, where people \"promoted their creativity\".Judge David McNaughton said the bail application was too complicated for an immediate ruling, adding he would issue a written decision no later than Wednesday.\"Given the breadth of issues covered in this bail application and the seriousness of the issues, I am going to reserve my decision,\" he said.Dotcom smiled and waved at around 20 supporters who filled the courtroom and spoke to them after the judge's decision.\"Hey guys thanks for turning up, I appreciate it,\" he said, wishing a female supporter a \"happy birthday\". Davison said Dotcom was \"realistic about what is happening\".\"He would obviously prefer to be at large,\" he told reporters outside the court. \"He doesn't want to be there any longer than he absolutely has to be.\"", "tags": ["Megaupload", "Internet", "Technology", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "FBI", "US news", "Piracy", "Digital media", "Media", "Kim Dotcom"], "title": "Internet mogul Kim Dotcom denies internet piracy in New Zealand court"},{"date": "2012-03-26T09:55:42Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand police have decided not to press charges against a freelance cameraman who recorded a private conversation involving prime minister John Key and a political ally.Key claimed the recording of his discussion with John Banks during the run-up to last November's general election was illegal (as I reported here). Cameraman Brad Ambrose had left a recording device running on a cafe table while Key met with a political ally, John Banks. Key had earlier met with media at the cafe. The recording was leaked online and included a couple of coarse comments by Key.Key's party went on to win the election but fell short of an outright majority.Police assistant commissioner Malcolm Burgess said that although there was a clear case against Ambrose, a warning was sufficient because he had no previous criminal record and had written letters of regret to Key and Banks.Source: AP", "tags": ["Media", "Privacy & the media", "New Zealand", "Press freedom"], "title": "Cameraman won't face charge over recording prime minister"},{"date": "2012-06-13T07:30:03Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "On 22 February 2011 a 6.3 magnitude earthquake shook Canterbury and the devastation it caused made it one of the worst natural disasters in New Zealand's history. Christchurch city and hillside areas were badly hit. With buildings and infrastructure already weakened by an earthquake the previous September, the February quake and aftershocks placed huge pressure on the Canterbury health system and led to a peak in demand. A number of facilities were damaged, some rendered unusable. Healthcare workers had to quickly find a new way of working against a backdrop of damaged homes, lost essential services and shell-shocked families.The reason we were able to respond so quickly and effectively post-disaster was because the transition towards a more integrated way of working was already underway. New initiatives and plans were in place and working relationships were being strengthened to address the more everyday challenges of an ageing population, outdated facilities and increasing demand.Our vision in Canterbury is for a connected health system, centred around people, where \"the whole system needs to be working for the whole system to work\". By operating collaboratively with all healthcare providers, including ambulance, GPs, clinicians and administrators and using powerful \"fact-only tools\", we could deliver the right care in the right place at the right time.We have already seen fewer emergency department presentations and acute medical admissions, increased community care and are working towards improving health outcomes.Initiatives include an acute demand management strategy specifically aimed at supporting people in the community and, where appropriate, avoiding unnecessary admissions. For example, providing acute nursing, general practice packages of care, acute diagnostics and community observation to ensure that people receive appropriate care, which in many cases isn't a journey to hospital.Another strategy ensures people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder will be safely supported to stay well at home, using a plan agreed with their GP. That plan could include advice on stopping smoking, ensuring they have sufficient medication for when they need it, giving a free flu vaccination, or arranging for visits from a community nurse. This approach is being supported by pathways for ambulance staff to decide to leave patients in their own home with follow-up acute nursing,\u00a0or deliver them to acute community medical centres or emergency departments based on clinical need.Another one of our initiatives provides in-home care to support patients discharged from hospital and helps to avoid re-admission. The feedback from patients has been overwhelmingly positive and our admission rate is the lowest of any large metropolitan area, with the length of stay also steadily reducing.So far, we've cut 1.5 million days of patient waiting time (in just four areas we have measured), met the six-hour \"discharge or admit\" government health target in 95% of cases, and are leading in the OECD for screening mammograms.In the past year almost 20,000 patients have been cared for in community settings \u2013 avoiding a hospital stay altogether.We're excited by the results our people-centred approach has achieved, but are even more excited by what else we believe we can accomplish using our evidence-led thinking and working collaboratively.Carolyn Gullery is general manager for planning and funding with Canterbury district health board (New Zealand). She will be presenting at the NHS Confederation conference on 21 June in Manchester.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the healthcare network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "International", "Hospitals and acute care", "Efficiency"], "title": "New Zealand: a vision for connected healthcare"},{"date": "2012-06-13T07:30:03Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "On 22 February 2011 a 6.3 magnitude earthquake shook Canterbury and the devastation it caused made it one of the worst natural disasters in New Zealand's history. Christchurch city and hillside areas were badly hit. With buildings and infrastructure already weakened by an earthquake the previous September, the February quake and aftershocks placed huge pressure on the Canterbury health system and led to a peak in demand. A number of facilities were damaged, some rendered unusable. Healthcare workers had to quickly find a new way of working against a backdrop of damaged homes, lost essential services and shell-shocked families.The reason we were able to respond so quickly and effectively post-disaster was because the transition towards a more integrated way of working was already underway. New initiatives and plans were in place and working relationships were being strengthened to address the more everyday challenges of an ageing population, outdated facilities and increasing demand.Our vision in Canterbury is for a connected health system, centred around people, where \"the whole system needs to be working for the whole system to work\". By operating collaboratively with all healthcare providers, including ambulance, GPs, clinicians and administrators and using powerful \"fact-only tools\", we could deliver the right care in the right place at the right time.We have already seen fewer emergency department presentations and acute medical admissions, increased community care and are working towards improving health outcomes.Initiatives include an acute demand management strategy specifically aimed at supporting people in the community and, where appropriate, avoiding unnecessary admissions. For example, providing acute nursing, general practice packages of care, acute diagnostics and community observation to ensure that people receive appropriate care, which in many cases isn't a journey to hospital.Another strategy ensures people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder will be safely supported to stay well at home, using a plan agreed with their GP. That plan could include advice on stopping smoking, ensuring they have sufficient medication for when they need it, giving a free flu vaccination, or arranging for visits from a community nurse. This approach is being supported by pathways for ambulance staff to decide to leave patients in their own home with follow-up acute nursing,\u00a0or deliver them to acute community medical centres or emergency departments based on clinical need.Another one of our initiatives provides in-home care to support patients discharged from hospital and helps to avoid re-admission. The feedback from patients has been overwhelmingly positive and our admission rate is the lowest of any large metropolitan area, with the length of stay also steadily reducing.So far, we've cut 1.5 million days of patient waiting time (in just four areas we have measured), met the six-hour \"discharge or admit\" government health target in 95% of cases, and are leading in the OECD for screening mammograms.In the past year almost 20,000 patients have been cared for in community settings \u2013 avoiding a hospital stay altogether.We're excited by the results our people-centred approach has achieved, but are even more excited by what else we believe we can accomplish using our evidence-led thinking and working collaboratively.Carolyn Gullery is general manager for planning and funding with Canterbury district health board (New Zealand). She will be presenting at the NHS Confederation conference on 21 June in Manchester.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the healthcare network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "International", "Hospitals and acute care", "Efficiency"], "title": "New Zealand: a vision for connected healthcare"},{"date": "2012-05-02T08:02:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "APN News & Media, the Australian-based newspaper publisher, is considering selling its titles in New Zealand, including the country's largest paper, the New Zealand Herald.APN's chief executive Brett Chenoweth said it has hired Deutsche Bank to advise on \"various options to maximise profitability and value for shareholders\".He told the company's annual general meeting in Sydney that APN had received approaches \"involving some or all of our New Zealand assets\".However, he also said APN was undertaking a major rejuvenation programme in its New Zealand division.This involved a redesign of the Herald, including a switch from broadsheet to tabloid on weekdays. Other dailies would also adopt the tabloid format.One investment banking and broking source said there was no market chatter on potential APN deals, but \"you don't appoint investment bankers without having something there\". The troubled Irish publisher, Independent News & Media, has a 32.3% stake in APN.Source: Business Day", "tags": ["Media", "Media business", "New Zealand", "Australia news", "Independent News & Media", "Media downturn", "Newspaper formats", "Newspapers", "Deutsche Bank"], "title": "New Zealand papers may be sold"},{"date": "2012-06-13T07:30:03Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "On 22 February 2011 a 6.3 magnitude earthquake shook Canterbury and the devastation it caused made it one of the worst natural disasters in New Zealand's history. Christchurch city and hillside areas were badly hit. With buildings and infrastructure already weakened by an earthquake the previous September, the February quake and aftershocks placed huge pressure on the Canterbury health system and led to a peak in demand. A number of facilities were damaged, some rendered unusable. Healthcare workers had to quickly find a new way of working against a backdrop of damaged homes, lost essential services and shell-shocked families.The reason we were able to respond so quickly and effectively post-disaster was because the transition towards a more integrated way of working was already underway. New initiatives and plans were in place and working relationships were being strengthened to address the more everyday challenges of an ageing population, outdated facilities and increasing demand.Our vision in Canterbury is for a connected health system, centred around people, where \"the whole system needs to be working for the whole system to work\". By operating collaboratively with all healthcare providers, including ambulance, GPs, clinicians and administrators and using powerful \"fact-only tools\", we could deliver the right care in the right place at the right time.We have already seen fewer emergency department presentations and acute medical admissions, increased community care and are working towards improving health outcomes.Initiatives include an acute demand management strategy specifically aimed at supporting people in the community and, where appropriate, avoiding unnecessary admissions. For example, providing acute nursing, general practice packages of care, acute diagnostics and community observation to ensure that people receive appropriate care, which in many cases isn't a journey to hospital.Another strategy ensures people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder will be safely supported to stay well at home, using a plan agreed with their GP. That plan could include advice on stopping smoking, ensuring they have sufficient medication for when they need it, giving a free flu vaccination, or arranging for visits from a community nurse. This approach is being supported by pathways for ambulance staff to decide to leave patients in their own home with follow-up acute nursing,\u00a0or deliver them to acute community medical centres or emergency departments based on clinical need.Another one of our initiatives provides in-home care to support patients discharged from hospital and helps to avoid re-admission. The feedback from patients has been overwhelmingly positive and our admission rate is the lowest of any large metropolitan area, with the length of stay also steadily reducing.So far, we've cut 1.5 million days of patient waiting time (in just four areas we have measured), met the six-hour \"discharge or admit\" government health target in 95% of cases, and are leading in the OECD for screening mammograms.In the past year almost 20,000 patients have been cared for in community settings \u2013 avoiding a hospital stay altogether.We're excited by the results our people-centred approach has achieved, but are even more excited by what else we believe we can accomplish using our evidence-led thinking and working collaboratively.Carolyn Gullery is general manager for planning and funding with Canterbury district health board (New Zealand). She will be presenting at the NHS Confederation conference on 21 June in Manchester.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the healthcare network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "International", "Hospitals and acute care", "Efficiency"], "title": "New Zealand: a vision for connected healthcare"},{"date": "2012-05-02T08:02:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "APN News & Media, the Australian-based newspaper publisher, is considering selling its titles in New Zealand, including the country's largest paper, the New Zealand Herald.APN's chief executive Brett Chenoweth said it has hired Deutsche Bank to advise on \"various options to maximise profitability and value for shareholders\".He told the company's annual general meeting in Sydney that APN had received approaches \"involving some or all of our New Zealand assets\".However, he also said APN was undertaking a major rejuvenation programme in its New Zealand division.This involved a redesign of the Herald, including a switch from broadsheet to tabloid on weekdays. Other dailies would also adopt the tabloid format.One investment banking and broking source said there was no market chatter on potential APN deals, but \"you don't appoint investment bankers without having something there\". The troubled Irish publisher, Independent News & Media, has a 32.3% stake in APN.Source: Business Day", "tags": ["Media", "Media business", "New Zealand", "Australia news", "Independent News & Media", "Media downturn", "Newspaper formats", "Newspapers", "Deutsche Bank"], "title": "New Zealand papers may be sold"},{"date": "2012-04-17T12:59:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Late one afternoon, while walking around the Panmure basin, it occurred to me that one measure of the health of waterways might be the numbers of fish-eating birds. Panmure basin is one of Auckland's many extinct volcano craters. Filled with water, it is connected by a channel through a breach in the crater wall to the Tamaki river. A bridge spans the tree-lined channel, allowing walkers to circumnavigate the basin.Our walk passes a bank exposing the layers of volcanic ash and kingfisher nesting tunnels. At low water, we see them sitting on rocks that give them a view over the mudflats. There is a flash of blue as they dart off to catch unfortunate mud crabs straying from their burrows. In the shallow water, grey herons stalk. Suddenly they thrust their beaks into the water, bring up a tiny crustacean or larger fish, tossed into the air and deftly swallowed.Next we pass the mangrove trees growing along a sheltered edge of the lagoon. The extensive areas of mangroves in many Auckland estuaries are partly due to silt washed from land as a result of deforestation and subsequent farming and urban development: a transfer of resources from land to the sea. In the protection of the trees and their aerial roots, many invertebrates live and fish breed.The highlight of the walk comes when we reach a cliff top to view cormorants nesting in trees. The birds ignore people, enabling close observation when they are on the ground resting or gathering nesting material. The pied shag is black on top and white underneath with a yellow spot below each eye. Its nests of sticks seem precariously situated on thin branches, but somehow they survive the strong winds. Some are high up in a pine tree, while others are on a pohutukawa tree growing out the side of the cliff, allowing a view of the nestlings. On this hot afternoon, the dark grey fluffy birds are panting.Two years ago in later summer when the tide was going out, there was a line of cormorants in the water. At intervals one would dive down, sometimes coming up with a fish, which was tossed in the air before being swallowed head\u00a0first.Judging by the thriving colony of cormorants, there must be plenty of fish in the Tamaki estuary.", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Auckland holidays", "Walking holidays", "Deforestation", "Birds", "New Zealand"], "title": "Letter from New Zealand: fish feast"},{"date": "2012-06-13T07:30:03Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "On 22 February 2011 a 6.3 magnitude earthquake shook Canterbury and the devastation it caused made it one of the worst natural disasters in New Zealand's history. Christchurch city and hillside areas were badly hit. With buildings and infrastructure already weakened by an earthquake the previous September, the February quake and aftershocks placed huge pressure on the Canterbury health system and led to a peak in demand. A number of facilities were damaged, some rendered unusable. Healthcare workers had to quickly find a new way of working against a backdrop of damaged homes, lost essential services and shell-shocked families.The reason we were able to respond so quickly and effectively post-disaster was because the transition towards a more integrated way of working was already underway. New initiatives and plans were in place and working relationships were being strengthened to address the more everyday challenges of an ageing population, outdated facilities and increasing demand.Our vision in Canterbury is for a connected health system, centred around people, where \"the whole system needs to be working for the whole system to work\". By operating collaboratively with all healthcare providers, including ambulance, GPs, clinicians and administrators and using powerful \"fact-only tools\", we could deliver the right care in the right place at the right time.We have already seen fewer emergency department presentations and acute medical admissions, increased community care and are working towards improving health outcomes.Initiatives include an acute demand management strategy specifically aimed at supporting people in the community and, where appropriate, avoiding unnecessary admissions. For example, providing acute nursing, general practice packages of care, acute diagnostics and community observation to ensure that people receive appropriate care, which in many cases isn't a journey to hospital.Another strategy ensures people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder will be safely supported to stay well at home, using a plan agreed with their GP. That plan could include advice on stopping smoking, ensuring they have sufficient medication for when they need it, giving a free flu vaccination, or arranging for visits from a community nurse. This approach is being supported by pathways for ambulance staff to decide to leave patients in their own home with follow-up acute nursing,\u00a0or deliver them to acute community medical centres or emergency departments based on clinical need.Another one of our initiatives provides in-home care to support patients discharged from hospital and helps to avoid re-admission. The feedback from patients has been overwhelmingly positive and our admission rate is the lowest of any large metropolitan area, with the length of stay also steadily reducing.So far, we've cut 1.5 million days of patient waiting time (in just four areas we have measured), met the six-hour \"discharge or admit\" government health target in 95% of cases, and are leading in the OECD for screening mammograms.In the past year almost 20,000 patients have been cared for in community settings \u2013 avoiding a hospital stay altogether.We're excited by the results our people-centred approach has achieved, but are even more excited by what else we believe we can accomplish using our evidence-led thinking and working collaboratively.Carolyn Gullery is general manager for planning and funding with Canterbury district health board (New Zealand). She will be presenting at the NHS Confederation conference on 21 June in Manchester.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the healthcare network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "International", "Hospitals and acute care", "Efficiency"], "title": "New Zealand: a vision for connected healthcare"},{"date": "2012-05-02T08:02:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "APN News & Media, the Australian-based newspaper publisher, is considering selling its titles in New Zealand, including the country's largest paper, the New Zealand Herald.APN's chief executive Brett Chenoweth said it has hired Deutsche Bank to advise on \"various options to maximise profitability and value for shareholders\".He told the company's annual general meeting in Sydney that APN had received approaches \"involving some or all of our New Zealand assets\".However, he also said APN was undertaking a major rejuvenation programme in its New Zealand division.This involved a redesign of the Herald, including a switch from broadsheet to tabloid on weekdays. Other dailies would also adopt the tabloid format.One investment banking and broking source said there was no market chatter on potential APN deals, but \"you don't appoint investment bankers without having something there\". The troubled Irish publisher, Independent News & Media, has a 32.3% stake in APN.Source: Business Day", "tags": ["Media", "Media business", "New Zealand", "Australia news", "Independent News & Media", "Media downturn", "Newspaper formats", "Newspapers", "Deutsche Bank"], "title": "New Zealand papers may be sold"},{"date": "2012-04-17T12:59:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Late one afternoon, while walking around the Panmure basin, it occurred to me that one measure of the health of waterways might be the numbers of fish-eating birds. Panmure basin is one of Auckland's many extinct volcano craters. Filled with water, it is connected by a channel through a breach in the crater wall to the Tamaki river. A bridge spans the tree-lined channel, allowing walkers to circumnavigate the basin.Our walk passes a bank exposing the layers of volcanic ash and kingfisher nesting tunnels. At low water, we see them sitting on rocks that give them a view over the mudflats. There is a flash of blue as they dart off to catch unfortunate mud crabs straying from their burrows. In the shallow water, grey herons stalk. Suddenly they thrust their beaks into the water, bring up a tiny crustacean or larger fish, tossed into the air and deftly swallowed.Next we pass the mangrove trees growing along a sheltered edge of the lagoon. The extensive areas of mangroves in many Auckland estuaries are partly due to silt washed from land as a result of deforestation and subsequent farming and urban development: a transfer of resources from land to the sea. In the protection of the trees and their aerial roots, many invertebrates live and fish breed.The highlight of the walk comes when we reach a cliff top to view cormorants nesting in trees. The birds ignore people, enabling close observation when they are on the ground resting or gathering nesting material. The pied shag is black on top and white underneath with a yellow spot below each eye. Its nests of sticks seem precariously situated on thin branches, but somehow they survive the strong winds. Some are high up in a pine tree, while others are on a pohutukawa tree growing out the side of the cliff, allowing a view of the nestlings. On this hot afternoon, the dark grey fluffy birds are panting.Two years ago in later summer when the tide was going out, there was a line of cormorants in the water. At intervals one would dive down, sometimes coming up with a fish, which was tossed in the air before being swallowed head\u00a0first.Judging by the thriving colony of cormorants, there must be plenty of fish in the Tamaki estuary.", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Auckland holidays", "Walking holidays", "Deforestation", "Birds", "New Zealand"], "title": "Letter from New Zealand: fish feast"},{"date": "2012-04-04T12:36:14Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Peter Jackson's two-part fantasy epic The Hobbit helped New Zealand's film industry contribute more than $2.4bn to the country's economy in 2011, according to a new report.Figures released this week by Statistics New Zealand detail a 4% rise over 2010's headline figure. The Hobbit's importance to the Kiwi economy was highlighted in October 2010 when ministers promised to rewrite the country's labour laws and offer a $25m tax break to the Hollywood studio Warner Bros in order to ensure the Lord of the Rings prequel was shot on the same location as its predecessor.Gisella Carr, chief executive of locations marketing agency FilmNZ, told the Hollywood Reporter the boost was not just about Jackson's adaptation of JRR Tolkien's childrens' novel. \"[It's] everyone in the screen industry playing their part, whether they are working on international or domestic production, or both,\" she said. \"We could never have imagined the scale of these figures a generation ago. It is a testament to our screen entrepreneurs who are converting creative projects into economic headlines.\"Big-budget Hollywood films shot wholly or partly in New Zealand in recent years include Avatar, 10,000 BC, The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe and X-Men Origins: Wolverine. Thirty five productions visited the country in 2011, contributing revenue of more than $563m \u2013 up 15% year-on-year. \"We are holding our own internationally, the level of revenue is increasing from year to year \u2013 despite a global recession and despite the fact that much of the screen industry runs on a project basis with breaks between activities,\" Carr added. \"We are now starting to see trends over time, and what is emerging is a picture of consistent growth and sustainability.\"The figures, while encouraging, are still dwarfed by those of the US film industry, which generated $40.8bn in 2011. The world's largest movie-maker is trailed by India, whose burgeoning industry is believed to contribute around $640m to the country's economy. The Chinese film industry was worth about 16 billion yuan ($2.5bn) in 2010. The UK film industry is worth about \u00a34.2bn ($6.7bn) annually.The Hobbit, which will be screened in two parts, the first arriving in December this year and the second in time for the following festive season, has had a chequered path to production, prompting a steady stream of tabloid stories suggesting a \"Hobbit curse\". Setbacks include the departure of original director Guillermo del Toro in 2010 after extended delays relating to studio MGM's financial travails, a fire that destroyed a number of vital miniatures, an enormous row with a local New Zealand union which prompted the labour law changes, and Jackson's own hospitalisation last year for surgery to treat a stomach ulcer.The cast, including Martin Freeman, Andy Serkis, Benedict Cumberbatch, Cate Blanchett, Christopher Lee, Elijah Wood, Martin Freeman, Orlando Bloom, Sir Ian McKellen, Billy Connolly and Stephen Fry, is now complete and the shoot for The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey began just over a year ago at Stone Street studios in Miramar, Wellington, and on location around New Zealand.", "tags": ["Film", "Film industry", "New Zealand", "Peter Jackson", "Culture", "The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey"], "title": "The Hobbit boosts New Zealand film industry"},{"date": "2012-06-13T07:30:03Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "On 22 February 2011 a 6.3 magnitude earthquake shook Canterbury and the devastation it caused made it one of the worst natural disasters in New Zealand's history. Christchurch city and hillside areas were badly hit. With buildings and infrastructure already weakened by an earthquake the previous September, the February quake and aftershocks placed huge pressure on the Canterbury health system and led to a peak in demand. A number of facilities were damaged, some rendered unusable. Healthcare workers had to quickly find a new way of working against a backdrop of damaged homes, lost essential services and shell-shocked families.The reason we were able to respond so quickly and effectively post-disaster was because the transition towards a more integrated way of working was already underway. New initiatives and plans were in place and working relationships were being strengthened to address the more everyday challenges of an ageing population, outdated facilities and increasing demand.Our vision in Canterbury is for a connected health system, centred around people, where \"the whole system needs to be working for the whole system to work\". By operating collaboratively with all healthcare providers, including ambulance, GPs, clinicians and administrators and using powerful \"fact-only tools\", we could deliver the right care in the right place at the right time.We have already seen fewer emergency department presentations and acute medical admissions, increased community care and are working towards improving health outcomes.Initiatives include an acute demand management strategy specifically aimed at supporting people in the community and, where appropriate, avoiding unnecessary admissions. For example, providing acute nursing, general practice packages of care, acute diagnostics and community observation to ensure that people receive appropriate care, which in many cases isn't a journey to hospital.Another strategy ensures people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder will be safely supported to stay well at home, using a plan agreed with their GP. That plan could include advice on stopping smoking, ensuring they have sufficient medication for when they need it, giving a free flu vaccination, or arranging for visits from a community nurse. This approach is being supported by pathways for ambulance staff to decide to leave patients in their own home with follow-up acute nursing,\u00a0or deliver them to acute community medical centres or emergency departments based on clinical need.Another one of our initiatives provides in-home care to support patients discharged from hospital and helps to avoid re-admission. The feedback from patients has been overwhelmingly positive and our admission rate is the lowest of any large metropolitan area, with the length of stay also steadily reducing.So far, we've cut 1.5 million days of patient waiting time (in just four areas we have measured), met the six-hour \"discharge or admit\" government health target in 95% of cases, and are leading in the OECD for screening mammograms.In the past year almost 20,000 patients have been cared for in community settings \u2013 avoiding a hospital stay altogether.We're excited by the results our people-centred approach has achieved, but are even more excited by what else we believe we can accomplish using our evidence-led thinking and working collaboratively.Carolyn Gullery is general manager for planning and funding with Canterbury district health board (New Zealand). She will be presenting at the NHS Confederation conference on 21 June in Manchester.This article is published by Guardian Professional. Join the healthcare network to receive regular emails and exclusive offers.", "tags": ["Healthcare Network", "International", "Hospitals and acute care", "Efficiency"], "title": "New Zealand: a vision for connected healthcare"},{"date": "2012-05-02T08:02:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "APN News & Media, the Australian-based newspaper publisher, is considering selling its titles in New Zealand, including the country's largest paper, the New Zealand Herald.APN's chief executive Brett Chenoweth said it has hired Deutsche Bank to advise on \"various options to maximise profitability and value for shareholders\".He told the company's annual general meeting in Sydney that APN had received approaches \"involving some or all of our New Zealand assets\".However, he also said APN was undertaking a major rejuvenation programme in its New Zealand division.This involved a redesign of the Herald, including a switch from broadsheet to tabloid on weekdays. Other dailies would also adopt the tabloid format.One investment banking and broking source said there was no market chatter on potential APN deals, but \"you don't appoint investment bankers without having something there\". The troubled Irish publisher, Independent News & Media, has a 32.3% stake in APN.Source: Business Day", "tags": ["Media", "Media business", "New Zealand", "Australia news", "Independent News & Media", "Media downturn", "Newspaper formats", "Newspapers", "Deutsche Bank"], "title": "New Zealand papers may be sold"},{"date": "2012-04-17T12:59:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Late one afternoon, while walking around the Panmure basin, it occurred to me that one measure of the health of waterways might be the numbers of fish-eating birds. Panmure basin is one of Auckland's many extinct volcano craters. Filled with water, it is connected by a channel through a breach in the crater wall to the Tamaki river. A bridge spans the tree-lined channel, allowing walkers to circumnavigate the basin.Our walk passes a bank exposing the layers of volcanic ash and kingfisher nesting tunnels. At low water, we see them sitting on rocks that give them a view over the mudflats. There is a flash of blue as they dart off to catch unfortunate mud crabs straying from their burrows. In the shallow water, grey herons stalk. Suddenly they thrust their beaks into the water, bring up a tiny crustacean or larger fish, tossed into the air and deftly swallowed.Next we pass the mangrove trees growing along a sheltered edge of the lagoon. The extensive areas of mangroves in many Auckland estuaries are partly due to silt washed from land as a result of deforestation and subsequent farming and urban development: a transfer of resources from land to the sea. In the protection of the trees and their aerial roots, many invertebrates live and fish breed.The highlight of the walk comes when we reach a cliff top to view cormorants nesting in trees. The birds ignore people, enabling close observation when they are on the ground resting or gathering nesting material. The pied shag is black on top and white underneath with a yellow spot below each eye. Its nests of sticks seem precariously situated on thin branches, but somehow they survive the strong winds. Some are high up in a pine tree, while others are on a pohutukawa tree growing out the side of the cliff, allowing a view of the nestlings. On this hot afternoon, the dark grey fluffy birds are panting.Two years ago in later summer when the tide was going out, there was a line of cormorants in the water. At intervals one would dive down, sometimes coming up with a fish, which was tossed in the air before being swallowed head\u00a0first.Judging by the thriving colony of cormorants, there must be plenty of fish in the Tamaki estuary.", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Auckland holidays", "Walking holidays", "Deforestation", "Birds", "New Zealand"], "title": "Letter from New Zealand: fish feast"},{"date": "2012-04-04T12:36:14Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Peter Jackson's two-part fantasy epic The Hobbit helped New Zealand's film industry contribute more than $2.4bn to the country's economy in 2011, according to a new report.Figures released this week by Statistics New Zealand detail a 4% rise over 2010's headline figure. The Hobbit's importance to the Kiwi economy was highlighted in October 2010 when ministers promised to rewrite the country's labour laws and offer a $25m tax break to the Hollywood studio Warner Bros in order to ensure the Lord of the Rings prequel was shot on the same location as its predecessor.Gisella Carr, chief executive of locations marketing agency FilmNZ, told the Hollywood Reporter the boost was not just about Jackson's adaptation of JRR Tolkien's childrens' novel. \"[It's] everyone in the screen industry playing their part, whether they are working on international or domestic production, or both,\" she said. \"We could never have imagined the scale of these figures a generation ago. It is a testament to our screen entrepreneurs who are converting creative projects into economic headlines.\"Big-budget Hollywood films shot wholly or partly in New Zealand in recent years include Avatar, 10,000 BC, The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe and X-Men Origins: Wolverine. Thirty five productions visited the country in 2011, contributing revenue of more than $563m \u2013 up 15% year-on-year. \"We are holding our own internationally, the level of revenue is increasing from year to year \u2013 despite a global recession and despite the fact that much of the screen industry runs on a project basis with breaks between activities,\" Carr added. \"We are now starting to see trends over time, and what is emerging is a picture of consistent growth and sustainability.\"The figures, while encouraging, are still dwarfed by those of the US film industry, which generated $40.8bn in 2011. The world's largest movie-maker is trailed by India, whose burgeoning industry is believed to contribute around $640m to the country's economy. The Chinese film industry was worth about 16 billion yuan ($2.5bn) in 2010. The UK film industry is worth about \u00a34.2bn ($6.7bn) annually.The Hobbit, which will be screened in two parts, the first arriving in December this year and the second in time for the following festive season, has had a chequered path to production, prompting a steady stream of tabloid stories suggesting a \"Hobbit curse\". Setbacks include the departure of original director Guillermo del Toro in 2010 after extended delays relating to studio MGM's financial travails, a fire that destroyed a number of vital miniatures, an enormous row with a local New Zealand union which prompted the labour law changes, and Jackson's own hospitalisation last year for surgery to treat a stomach ulcer.The cast, including Martin Freeman, Andy Serkis, Benedict Cumberbatch, Cate Blanchett, Christopher Lee, Elijah Wood, Martin Freeman, Orlando Bloom, Sir Ian McKellen, Billy Connolly and Stephen Fry, is now complete and the shoot for The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey began just over a year ago at Stone Street studios in Miramar, Wellington, and on location around New Zealand.", "tags": ["Film", "Film industry", "New Zealand", "Peter Jackson", "Culture", "The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey"], "title": "The Hobbit boosts New Zealand film industry"},{"date": "2012-04-29T13:39:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Three months after dozens of armed police swooped on Kim Dotcom's Auckland mansion, arresting him and several of his colleagues, allegations by the German-born internet tycoon about political donations threaten to destabilise New Zealand's governing coalition.The scandal centres on a donation Dotcom says he made to John Banks, currently minister for small business and regulatory reform, during an unsuccessful 2010 campaign for the Auckland mayoralty.Banks, who was elected to parliament a year later, had asked Dotcom to split a suggested $50,000 (\u00a326,000) donation into two parts, so that it would fall beneath the maximum level for anonymous contributions, Dotcom told local media.Under New Zealand electoral law it is an offence for a recipient to classify any donation over $1,000 as anonymous if he or she knows the donor's identity.Dotcom remains under house arrest in his $30m mansion awaiting extradition hearings over US charges of copyright and racketeering related to his Megaupload website. The US justice department accuses Dotcom and others of complicity in widespread online piracy of films, music and other copyright material.Megaupload was the world's biggest file-sharing site, accounting for an estimated 4% of internet traffic, before US authorities ordered its closure.Dotcom told TV3's Campbell Live programme that he had flown Banks to his mansion in one of his helicopters.While Banks did accept he had met with Dotcom, he had no memory of that visit, and \"can't recall discussing money\", he said. Banks is the sole MP for the rightwing ACT party. He was elected in the Epsom district after the National leader and prime minister John Key joined him for a stage-managed, symbolic cup of tea during last November's election campaign.If Dotcom's claims are vindicated, Banks is likely to have to resign his seat. While a National or ACT candidate would almost certainly win a byelection in the blue-ribbon Epsom constituency, it would be another blow for Key, a prime minister who has encountered a steady supply of controversies since his re-election for a second term at the end of last year.Appearing on the TVNZ channel on Sunday, Banks refused to answer specific questions about donations to his mayoral campaign, claiming it was all a \"media beat-up\". \"I can tell you that when I signed my declaration for the mayoralty I signed it in good faith in the knowledge as a justice of the peace as true and correct,\" he said. \"I have nothing to fear and nothing to hide and I welcome the inquiry and everything will come out in the wash.\"In the face of demands by the opposition Labour party that Banks be stood down from his ministerial portfolios pending an inquiry, Key said he was satisfied with assurances from the minister that he had acted within the law.The scandal came as the US judge overseeing the case expressed doubt that it would make it to court, pointing to questions about whether Dotcom had been appropriately served with criminal papers.\"I frankly don't know that we are ever going to have a trial in this matter,\" district court judge Liam O'Brady told the FBI, according to a report in the New Zealand Herald.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Kim Dotcom", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Kim Dotcom donation claims rock New Zealand coalition"},{"date": "2012-07-10T07:35:42Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The New Zealand Herald will switch to a tabloid/compact format for its weekday issues from September.In announcing the move, the Auckland-based broadsheet spoke of undergoing \"the biggest transformation in its 150-year history\".Martin Simons, chief executive of the paper's owner, APN News & Media, said: \"We've been testing the concept with our readers and had excellent feedback.\"The Herald's weekend issue will remain a broadsheet.Sources: NZ Herald/The Australian/TVNZ", "tags": ["Media", "Newspaper formats", "New Zealand", "Newspapers"], "title": "New Zealand Herald goes tabloid"},{"date": "2012-07-10T07:35:42Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The New Zealand Herald will switch to a tabloid/compact format for its weekday issues from September.In announcing the move, the Auckland-based broadsheet spoke of undergoing \"the biggest transformation in its 150-year history\".Martin Simons, chief executive of the paper's owner, APN News & Media, said: \"We've been testing the concept with our readers and had excellent feedback.\"The Herald's weekend issue will remain a broadsheet.Sources: NZ Herald/The Australian/TVNZ", "tags": ["Media", "Newspaper formats", "New Zealand", "Newspapers"], "title": "New Zealand Herald goes tabloid"},{"date": "2012-08-21T13:00:43Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The north-eastern city of Gisborne is divided and people are angry. It's not the issue of water ownership that threatens the peace of this normally unflappable community, or whether local farms should be flogged to Chinese dairy giants. Even escalating rate bills hardly raise a sweat, let alone the imminent commencement of fracking operations in nearby hills. The cause of the fury is the latest craze for wearing pyjamas in public, especially noticeable in the supermarkets. The fashion has been initiated by women but bets are on as to how long it will be before men sew up their flies and join in.Letters to the local paper, mostly unsigned, are split between \"Disgusted\" and \"I Love my PJs\". In favour of parading their nightwear in public are shoppers who plan to go back to bed as soon as the supermarket shop is done, and others who say they can't afford dry cleaning so they live in their night clothes. Then there those who admit to being more comfortable in pyjamas and don't care about the opinions of others. \"I am not ashamed\", said one woman, hitching up her slipping trousers as she bent over to unload her trolley.Angry pronouncements against public PJ wearing include accusations of laziness and unhygienic behaviour. One writer suggested that pyjamas will bring lice and bed bugs into food shops. Someone else argued that if people wanted to wear pyjamas in public they should go to Dubai or London. Another person fumed that even in Nepal people dress nicely. \"Where is your pride?\" the writer asked.The district council is being urged to issue a ban on the wearing of pyjamas in public, day or night, and for offenders to be fined. Whether this would lead to pyjama police patrolling the streets is unclear.Has Gisborne, a geographically remote city, set a new benchmark in fashion?\u00a0Imagine my surprise therefore when, the other morning in the city I saw a man wearing a dark grey, bespoke suit, a silk tie and black polished Oxfords. Perhaps he was a visiting lawyer or a stockbroker selling shares in a fracking company. The point is he stood out among the informal crowds and was easily outnumbered by pyjamas.I realised then how fickle fashion is. Suits could be back tomorrow. I've decided to hold off sewing up my PJ flies, just in case.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Letter from New Zealand: pyjama party"},{"date": "2012-07-10T07:35:42Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The New Zealand Herald will switch to a tabloid/compact format for its weekday issues from September.In announcing the move, the Auckland-based broadsheet spoke of undergoing \"the biggest transformation in its 150-year history\".Martin Simons, chief executive of the paper's owner, APN News & Media, said: \"We've been testing the concept with our readers and had excellent feedback.\"The Herald's weekend issue will remain a broadsheet.Sources: NZ Herald/The Australian/TVNZ", "tags": ["Media", "Newspaper formats", "New Zealand", "Newspapers"], "title": "New Zealand Herald goes tabloid"},{"date": "2012-08-21T13:00:43Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The north-eastern city of Gisborne is divided and people are angry. It's not the issue of water ownership that threatens the peace of this normally unflappable community, or whether local farms should be flogged to Chinese dairy giants. Even escalating rate bills hardly raise a sweat, let alone the imminent commencement of fracking operations in nearby hills. The cause of the fury is the latest craze for wearing pyjamas in public, especially noticeable in the supermarkets. The fashion has been initiated by women but bets are on as to how long it will be before men sew up their flies and join in.Letters to the local paper, mostly unsigned, are split between \"Disgusted\" and \"I Love my PJs\". In favour of parading their nightwear in public are shoppers who plan to go back to bed as soon as the supermarket shop is done, and others who say they can't afford dry cleaning so they live in their night clothes. Then there those who admit to being more comfortable in pyjamas and don't care about the opinions of others. \"I am not ashamed\", said one woman, hitching up her slipping trousers as she bent over to unload her trolley.Angry pronouncements against public PJ wearing include accusations of laziness and unhygienic behaviour. One writer suggested that pyjamas will bring lice and bed bugs into food shops. Someone else argued that if people wanted to wear pyjamas in public they should go to Dubai or London. Another person fumed that even in Nepal people dress nicely. \"Where is your pride?\" the writer asked.The district council is being urged to issue a ban on the wearing of pyjamas in public, day or night, and for offenders to be fined. Whether this would lead to pyjama police patrolling the streets is unclear.Has Gisborne, a geographically remote city, set a new benchmark in fashion?\u00a0Imagine my surprise therefore when, the other morning in the city I saw a man wearing a dark grey, bespoke suit, a silk tie and black polished Oxfords. Perhaps he was a visiting lawyer or a stockbroker selling shares in a fracking company. The point is he stood out among the informal crowds and was easily outnumbered by pyjamas.I realised then how fickle fashion is. Suits could be back tomorrow. I've decided to hold off sewing up my PJ flies, just in case.Every week Guardian Weekly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Send them to weekly.letter.from@theguardian.com", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "Letter from New Zealand: pyjama party"},{"date": "2012-09-20T13:20:40Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand was afforded a rare honour on Thursday \u2013 a visit by Leon Panetta, the first American defence secretary to visit the country since Caspar Weinberger back in the cold war days of 1982. But some local inhabitants seem a tad ungrateful. They have labelled Panetta, a former CIA chief, the \"warlord of the world\" and say he should be arrested and sent for trial in The Hague. They pay no heed to Washington's \"anti-China\" Asia-Pacific security agenda.On balance, it always seemed unlikely Panetta would be handcuffed and led away. But he should tread carefully, all the same. New Zealand surprised and deeply angered Washington in the mid-1980s when the government of David Lange famously banned the presence of nuclear-armed and nuclear-powered ships from New Zealand's waters. The Reagan administration retaliated by suspending defence co-operation. The tripartite Anzus pact with the US and Australia lost its third leg.New Zealand's independent spirit remains undimmed. But political and security relations with the US have recovered in recent years, driven primarily by Washington's growing focus on Asia-Pacific in general, and China in particular. This has produced some significant joint initiatives, as Robert Ayson, director of the Centre for Strategic Studies at Victoria University, noted.\"We had the Wellington Declaration in 2010 where the government [of prime minister John Key] and the Obama administration committed themselves to co-operating more in the south Pacific. New Zealand has joined US humanitarian missions in this region. We have also had US marines and army personnel training in New Zealand,\" Ayson wrote.This rapprochement culminated this year with the Washington Declaration on building up a joint maritime security presence and deployable capabilities. Ayson warned: \"We've even said, in language not too far from Anzus, that we are prepared to respond 'in accordance with national approval processes' to regional contingencies. And we don't just mean the Pacific. The canvas is the wider Asia-Pacific region. That means New Zealand is more likely to be seen as a participant in America's rebalancing in Asia.\"This is also how it is seen in Washington. \"The central purpose of the secretary's visit is to explore opportunities for deepening defence co-operation. Following the Washington Declaration, a key area of focus is likely to be maritime military issues in the west Pacific,\" said a briefing prepared by the Center For Strategic & International Studies.The prospect that, on this basis, New Zealand might one day be drawn into a Sino-American military confrontation over disputed Japanese islands such as the Senkakus, or Taiwan, or North Korea, is alarming to many, and rightly so, for it can hardly be said to serve the national interest. New Zealand's relations with Beijing are cordial and China is its largest trading partner after Australia, said New Zealand Herald columnist Brian Rudman, so why play Panetta's game?He said: \"Turn off the lights. Hide behind the curtains. Pretend we're visiting sick rellies [relatives] in Sydney. The warlord of the world, Leon Panetta, slips into Auckland this week \u2026 Panetta is here to try and sign New Zealand up to his team trying to encircle and contain the rampant dragon that is China.\"He continued: \"When you look at the devastation that is Iraq and Afghanistan and the upheavals throughout the Muslim world and read of US unmanned Predator and Reaper drone aircraft bombing village wedding parties by remote control, is this a 'friend' or 'valued partner' we really want to get any closer to? We joined them in the Vietnam calamity, and the Afghanistan debacle. Now they want us to join them in putting some sort of corset around China ... It's nice of Panetta to drop in. But the price he asks is too high.\"Panetta travelled to New Zealand after a three-day visit to China, where he toured Chinese warships and gave assurances that Washington wants a non-confrontational relationship based on trust and respect. But commentators point out that as US-China regional rivalry grows, pressure from both countries to take their side in future disputes will inevitably grow, too \u2013 and New Zealand cannot satisfy both. Better in that case to pursue a balanced policy rather than tilting towards Washington.Complaints also persist that the US has not broken a habit of bullying that dates back to the nuclear dispute (the nuclear ban remains in force). While New Zealand took part in recent US-led, 22-country naval exercises off Hawaii, its ships, the Te Kaha and Endeavour, were not allowed to berth in Pearl Harbour alongside the other participants \u2013 a painful snub.\"We need to strongly oppose the fact that our government is sucking up to the USA because we are too small to have any great influence and need to preserve our values and our sovereignty,\" said blogger \"Mariana P\" in response to Ayson's article.Some New Zealanders would go further. Another blogger, \"tjh\", wrote: \"Panetta was deeply involved in the illegal Iraq war \u2013 and in the CIA's rendition, torture, and illegal imprisonment activities. He should be arrested the moment he steps on to our soil and referred to the War Crimes Tribunal in The Hague. If we could get Bush and Blair there as well, so much the better.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "US politics", "US news"], "title": "Leon Panetta gets a lukewarm welcome in New Zealand | Simon Tisdall"},{"date": "2012-11-27T08:45:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand has much to offer UK expats: the climate is good, there is plenty of space, the scenery is beautiful and lots of people speak English. No wonder it scored highest for quality of life in a recent survey of expats.It is crying out for skilled young workers and offers Brits under the age of 30 the chance to apply for a working visa that lasts almost two years. Skilled migrants can be granted a stay of up to five years. Pensioners need to make a serious investment in the New Zealand economy if they want to make it their home, but even so, more than 50,000 Brits have chosen to live there in retirement.If you are worried you might miss using your umbrella, head to Auckland on the North Island which is blessed with 1,240mm of rain a year; if you'd rather see the back of your wellies, Christchurch on the South Island gets half that. It is still, however, recovering from 2011's earthquake.You can visit New Zealand for up to six months without a visa, but to stay beyond that you will need to do some extra paperwork. There are several different visas for people who are going to New Zealand to work, including an essential skills visa aimed at highly qualified workers aged under 55 who can fill shortage skills and a working holiday visa for under-30s.The essential skills visa is usually granted for three years, but if the job you are doing meets the highest level of the government's ranking and you earn at least $55,000 (\u00a328,200) a year, you may get a permit to stay for five years.If the job is ranked low in the government's list you may just get a one-year visa. The working holiday visa lasts 23 months. There are also \"work to residence\" visas for employees offered jobs in occupations on the long-term skills shortage list or by accredited employers.If you want to retire to New Zealand there are two possible ways to get a visa: if you have a child who is resident there you could apply for a visa under the parent category; or you could apply as an investor. The temporary retirement category for investors offers a two-year visa to anyone aged over 66 who is willing to invest NZ$750,000 in New Zealand for two years and has NZ$500,000 in funds to live on and an income of at least NZ$60,000 a year.Anyone applying for a visa under the parent category will be prioritised if they have a sponsor who earns at least $65,000 a year, their own guaranteed income of $27,203 a year, or at least NZ$500,000 in funds to move to the country. Otherwise they need a sponsor who earns at least $33,675 a year. Anyone applying for an investment visa must have travel and/or health insurance.You can draw a UK state pension but you will not be entitled to the annual increases. Your pension will be frozen either at the rate it reaches when you move, if you are already drawing it, or at the rate it is when you first qualify if by that point you are already living in New Zealand. If you qualify for the New Zealand state pension, known as Superannuation, the value of your UK state pension will be subtracted from your payout.What airport will you arrive at? The airports in Auckland and Christchurch are the best served by flights from the UK and cost the least to get to.Local currency New Zealand dollar. The NZ$ is divided into 100 cents. On 12 November 2012 NZ$1 was worth 51p and \u00a31 would buy NZ$1.94.How do you spot a cab? New Zealand doesn't have any iconic cabs but it does have plenty of taxis to hire.Price of a hotel room In the first half of 2012 the average room rate was \u00a374, according to Hotels.com.Price of a house The median house price in September 2012 was NZ$371,000 (\u00a3191,000), according to the Real Estate Institute.Price of a pint of milk 69p, and NZ$2.38 a litre, according to Numbeo.What language do most people speak? New Zealand has three official languages: English, Maori and New Zealand sign language. English is the most widely used and is the language of the courts, parliament, schools and the public sector.What tax will you pay? The tax year runs from 1 April to 31 March. If you spend more than 183 days of a year in New Zealand you will be considered a resident for tax purposes, but when you first arrive you may qualify as a transitional tax resident. This will give you exemptions from paying tax on any income earned outside New Zealand for four years, as long as it isn't related to work you are doing while in the country. This means income from a UK pension during this period is not taxable in New Zealand.There is no tax-free income allowance in New Zealand \u2013 everyone is taxed on all of their earnings; the starting rate of tax is 10.5%.\u2022 Like in the UK, New Zealanders drive on the left-hand side of the road.\u2022 The place with the longest name in the world is in New Zealand. In full it is Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateapokaiwhenuakitanatahu, but you can usually get away with calling it Taumata.\u2022 You cannot be more than 128km from the sea anywhere in New Zealand.\u2022 New Zealand claims to have the highest number of bookshops and Scottish pipe bands per head in the world.\u2022 As well as the famous kiwi, you can also spot penguins \u2013 three species make their home around the country.\u2022 More people die in New Zealand each year playing lawn bowls than scuba diving.\u2022 Frying Pan Lake near Rotorua is the world's largest hot water spring: temperatures reach 200C at its deepest point.Ben Payne, 43, lives in Howick on the south-eastern side of Auckland on New Zealand's North Island. He works as the general manager of sales and marketing for an aerosol manufacturer. He and his family moved there on Boxing Day in 2001 \"predominantly due to the cost of living following the birth of our first child\", he says.\"Living in the Midlands \u2013 Leamington Spa \u2013 we both needed to work to pay the mortgage and the childcare fees; we felt trapped in a vicious circle. In New Zealand we were able to establish ourselves on a single income in a beachside area of Auckland. Seeing the sea every morning is magical after having grown up two hours away from the closest coast. Although I do miss seeing Warwick castle every day.\"Payne says it is easy to meet other expats if you want to. \"The area we are in is well populated with Brits, South Africans, Asians and Australians,\" he says.His advice to other would-be expats? \"Be open-minded, life is good here, but it isn't nirvana \u2013 we have our share of challenges. Don't necessarily hunt out the Brits, try and fit in with the locals, because most will have come from somewhere else anyway.\"And finally, if it doesn't work out, don't share \u2013 there is nothing worse than listening to people who didn't do their research moaning about the country they have moved to.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in New Zealand? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"New Zealand\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to New Zealand in the comments section. ", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance", "Money"], "title": "A UK expat's guide to New Zealand"},{"date": "2012-11-27T08:45:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand has much to offer UK expats: the climate is good, there is plenty of space, the scenery is beautiful and lots of people speak English. No wonder it scored highest for quality of life in a recent survey of expats.It is crying out for skilled young workers and offers Brits under the age of 30 the chance to apply for a working visa that lasts almost two years. Skilled migrants can be granted a stay of up to five years. Pensioners need to make a serious investment in the New Zealand economy if they want to make it their home, but even so, more than 50,000 Brits have chosen to live there in retirement.If you are worried you might miss using your umbrella, head to Auckland on the North Island which is blessed with 1,240mm of rain a year; if you'd rather see the back of your wellies, Christchurch on the South Island gets half that. It is still, however, recovering from 2011's earthquake.You can visit New Zealand for up to six months without a visa, but to stay beyond that you will need to do some extra paperwork. There are several different visas for people who are going to New Zealand to work, including an essential skills visa aimed at highly qualified workers aged under 55 who can fill shortage skills and a working holiday visa for under-30s.The essential skills visa is usually granted for three years, but if the job you are doing meets the highest level of the government's ranking and you earn at least $55,000 (\u00a328,200) a year, you may get a permit to stay for five years.If the job is ranked low in the government's list you may just get a one-year visa. The working holiday visa lasts 23 months. There are also \"work to residence\" visas for employees offered jobs in occupations on the long-term skills shortage list or by accredited employers.If you want to retire to New Zealand there are two possible ways to get a visa: if you have a child who is resident there you could apply for a visa under the parent category; or you could apply as an investor. The temporary retirement category for investors offers a two-year visa to anyone aged over 66 who is willing to invest NZ$750,000 in New Zealand for two years and has NZ$500,000 in funds to live on and an income of at least NZ$60,000 a year.Anyone applying for a visa under the parent category will be prioritised if they have a sponsor who earns at least $65,000 a year, their own guaranteed income of $27,203 a year, or at least NZ$500,000 in funds to move to the country. Otherwise they need a sponsor who earns at least $33,675 a year. Anyone applying for an investment visa must have travel and/or health insurance.You can draw a UK state pension but you will not be entitled to the annual increases. Your pension will be frozen either at the rate it reaches when you move, if you are already drawing it, or at the rate it is when you first qualify if by that point you are already living in New Zealand. If you qualify for the New Zealand state pension, known as Superannuation, the value of your UK state pension will be subtracted from your payout.What airport will you arrive at? The airports in Auckland and Christchurch are the best served by flights from the UK and cost the least to get to.Local currency New Zealand dollar. The NZ$ is divided into 100 cents. On 12 November 2012 NZ$1 was worth 51p and \u00a31 would buy NZ$1.94.How do you spot a cab? New Zealand doesn't have any iconic cabs but it does have plenty of taxis to hire.Price of a hotel room In the first half of 2012 the average room rate was \u00a374, according to Hotels.com.Price of a house The median house price in September 2012 was NZ$371,000 (\u00a3191,000), according to the Real Estate Institute.Price of a pint of milk 69p, and NZ$2.38 a litre, according to Numbeo.What language do most people speak? New Zealand has three official languages: English, Maori and New Zealand sign language. English is the most widely used and is the language of the courts, parliament, schools and the public sector.What tax will you pay? The tax year runs from 1 April to 31 March. If you spend more than 183 days of a year in New Zealand you will be considered a resident for tax purposes, but when you first arrive you may qualify as a transitional tax resident. This will give you exemptions from paying tax on any income earned outside New Zealand for four years, as long as it isn't related to work you are doing while in the country. This means income from a UK pension during this period is not taxable in New Zealand.There is no tax-free income allowance in New Zealand \u2013 everyone is taxed on all of their earnings; the starting rate of tax is 10.5%.\u2022 Like in the UK, New Zealanders drive on the left-hand side of the road.\u2022 The place with the longest name in the world is in New Zealand. In full it is Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateapokaiwhenuakitanatahu, but you can usually get away with calling it Taumata.\u2022 You cannot be more than 128km from the sea anywhere in New Zealand.\u2022 New Zealand claims to have the highest number of bookshops and Scottish pipe bands per head in the world.\u2022 As well as the famous kiwi, you can also spot penguins \u2013 three species make their home around the country.\u2022 More people die in New Zealand each year playing lawn bowls than scuba diving.\u2022 Frying Pan Lake near Rotorua is the world's largest hot water spring: temperatures reach 200C at its deepest point.Ben Payne, 43, lives in Howick on the south-eastern side of Auckland on New Zealand's North Island. He works as the general manager of sales and marketing for an aerosol manufacturer. He and his family moved there on Boxing Day in 2001 \"predominantly due to the cost of living following the birth of our first child\", he says.\"Living in the Midlands \u2013 Leamington Spa \u2013 we both needed to work to pay the mortgage and the childcare fees; we felt trapped in a vicious circle. In New Zealand we were able to establish ourselves on a single income in a beachside area of Auckland. Seeing the sea every morning is magical after having grown up two hours away from the closest coast. Although I do miss seeing Warwick castle every day.\"Payne says it is easy to meet other expats if you want to. \"The area we are in is well populated with Brits, South Africans, Asians and Australians,\" he says.His advice to other would-be expats? \"Be open-minded, life is good here, but it isn't nirvana \u2013 we have our share of challenges. Don't necessarily hunt out the Brits, try and fit in with the locals, because most will have come from somewhere else anyway.\"And finally, if it doesn't work out, don't share \u2013 there is nothing worse than listening to people who didn't do their research moaning about the country they have moved to.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in New Zealand? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"New Zealand\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to New Zealand in the comments section. ", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance", "Money"], "title": "A UK expat's guide to New Zealand"},{"date": "2012-11-16T22:44:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "There are three stories you'll hear about The Lord of the Rings in New Zealand. The first is the tale of a wealthy man, a Tolkien fan from the US, who asked the makers of the movies' One Ring to come up with a costly gold replica, then hired a helicopter to fly him over Mount Doom, where he threw it into the flaming inferno. At least, that's how they tell it in Wellington. In Nelson, it's a woman, a spurned lover, who threw her One Ring wedding band into the mouth of the volcano. Then there's the story of the six-foot-three German tourist who arrived at Hobbiton dressed as, well, a very tall hobbit, who felt so at home in one of the hobbit holes there that he squashed himself into it and refused to leave for 12 hours. In Auckland, they'll tell you he was Belgian.The Lord of the Rings has been big business in New Zealand ever since Wellington-born director Peter Jackson decided to film his trilogy here, back in the late 1990s. Now, with the imminent release of The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey \u2013 the first instalment in the new movie trilogy spun from the far shorter book \u2013 there's another opportunity to attract Tolkien devotees.People involved with Middle Earth-related tours talk wearily of copyright back-and-forths with the Tolkien estate and with New Line Cinema; it was, initially, hard for them to market anything local as an official Lord of the Rings experience. There's very much a sense that the tourism which followed the films' release took all parties by surprise, and they're preparing for it properly this time.The biggest name in the game right now is Hobbiton, a sheep farm that doubled as the Shire for both trilogies. It's about two hours' drive from Auckland, near Matamata; stop in any of the creaking cafes in the small towns along the way (\"Collect your Hot Mail here!\" reads the proud sign on one) and you'll bump into a minibus full of pilgrims on the same journey. If you're very lucky, one of the lesser-spotted costumed devotees may make an appearance, though on a brisk early spring day, you need more than just a cloak to keep you warm, so we didn't spy any Gandalfs.Jackson's location scouts saw potential in Alexander Farm's rolling green hills, lake, and, crucially, large pines \u2013 one of which would eventually become Bilbo's party tree. After filming was completed in 2004, the set was dismantled, before anyone realised that a massive opportunity had been missed. When it was rebuilt for The Hobbit, the farm fought to keep its hobbit holes.The artwork on the sides of the mini-buses that take people down to the main site still bear the scars of its cobbled-together past. The post-LOTR hobbit holes resembled a Changing Rooms project gone bad, with plain MDF facades fronting holes to nowhere, and though those early visitors may have been disappointed, they did get the option of feeding lambs at the end of the tour, a tradition that still stands today. Sure, you could survey a bit of grass where Elijah Wood once placed his hairy prosthetic feet, but in its original incarnation, these moments required Tolkien-esque powers of imagination.These days it's far slicker operation, though there is a peculiar feeling to flying for 26 hours only to find yourself in a place that has been chosen for its resemblance to the Malvern Hills. Then there's the fact that the 37 hobbit holes vary greatly in size to accommodate the different heights of the actors playing hobbits and dwarves at any one time. Oh, and that oak tree that sits majestically above Bag End? Its plastic leaves, imported from Taiwan, blow off in the wind, and have to be replaced every year or so because visitors keep pinching them as souvenirs.So while it may feel like you're taking a gentle stroll around a lusciously green film set, it can be quietly disorientating. Avoid going the day after you land, lest any remaining jetlag tip you over the edge. Perhaps that's what happened to the giant German/Belgian hobbit who claimed he had found his home here.Hobbiton may be the main event for now, but Wellington, on the southern tip of the North Island, is about to take over, renaming itself \"The Middle of Middle Earth\" at the end of November in time for the world premiere of The Hobbit. Back in September, there was little sign of the mania to come, though it already drew on its LOTR history. We spent an afternoon on a Lord of the Rings Movie Tours minibus, along with a couple of hardcore Tolkien fans, who made Hobbiton's gentle visitors look like pathetic amateurs.It's a winding drive \u2013 as are most of them in the terminally bendy-roaded New Zealand \u2013 up to Mount Victoria, which is less of a mountain and more of a hill, but which hosted a number of the scenes set in the Hobbiton woods in The Fellowship of the Ring: its paths are marked by cute \"hobbit-height\" posts.Our Movie Tours guide, Alice, had brought along a laptop, so we could view clips while standing on the very spot in which they were filmed. She also had props. I proudly reenacted a Sam and Frodo breakfast, a deleted scene restored to the extended edition of The Fellowship of the Ring (again, this is not for amateurs), complete with pipe and replica frying pan.Next, we came to the hill down which the hobbits roll when they're on the run from Farmer Maggot. \"Do you want to make a hobbit pile?\" asked Alice.\"Go on then,\" we shrugged, preparing to throw ourselves on the floor. I looked over at the other couple on the tour with us, who, judging by their furrowed brows and the number of questions they were asking about the minutiae of the trilogy, were taking it rather more seriously than us. They stared back, appalled. We did not make a hobbit pile.I asked Alice if she'd been a fan of the movies before she took the job. \"I wasn't,\" she admitted. \"I know everything about them now, though.\"This seems to be how it is in New Zealand. Everyone has taken up their Hobbity associations with enthusiasm, from the two mountains that stood in for Mount Doom \u2013 Mount Ngauruhoe and Mount Ruapehu, with additional help from scale models and CGI \u2013 to the small family-owned vineyard in Nelson, on the South Island, which won a licence to stick Middle Earth on the labels of its surprisingly delicious wines. You can hire a helicopter to fly out over more remote locations, or visit the gold and silversmith who made the One Ring for the movies.You can't drive for more than an hour without somebody pointing out a waterfall that might have had Orlando Bloom underneath it or a restaurant that Sir Ian McKellen liked to have his dinner in. What's nice about it is that the famous laid-back New Zealand character is in the fabric of everything. It doesn't feel opportune so much as a country going along with something that happened to come its way.In fact, what may have been our most authentic Hobbit experience wasn't marketed as one at all. The Waitomo Caves, on the North Island, offer a series of \"adventure options\" that range from a leisurely underground stroll to look at glowworms to the Haggas Honking Holes challenge, which earns a maximum eight Rambo Points in the brochure. With hindsight, I would recommend you respect this points system, and not undertake an intensive caving experience thinking that mild claustrophobia and a fatal lack of upper body strength would be minor considerations.The name refers to a hollow cavity deep underground that \"honks\" back at you when you put your head into it and shout, but it sounds like something straight out of the Shire. And at no point did I feel more like a plucky hobbit than the moment I emerged into the sunlight after two hours of abseiling into underground caverns, crawling through freezing streams on my belly and squashing myself through inhuman gaps in the walls. When Bilbo Baggins and the dwarves journey over the Misty Mountains, they shelter from a storm in a cave that turns out to be a goblin hotspot. As I peeled off my wetsuit and examined the bruises that were just starting to appear on my hands, I realised I would have done well to heed Tolkien's warning in chapter five: \"That, of course, is the dangerous part about caves: you don't know how far they go back, sometimes, or where a passage behind may lead to, or what is waiting for you inside.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Travel", "Australasia holidays", "Lord of the Rings", "JRR Tolkien", "Wellington holidays"], "title": "On the Hobbit trail in New Zealand"},{"date": "2012-11-27T08:45:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand has much to offer UK expats: the climate is good, there is plenty of space, the scenery is beautiful and lots of people speak English. No wonder it scored highest for quality of life in a recent survey of expats.It is crying out for skilled young workers and offers Brits under the age of 30 the chance to apply for a working visa that lasts almost two years. Skilled migrants can be granted a stay of up to five years. Pensioners need to make a serious investment in the New Zealand economy if they want to make it their home, but even so, more than 50,000 Brits have chosen to live there in retirement.If you are worried you might miss using your umbrella, head to Auckland on the North Island which is blessed with 1,240mm of rain a year; if you'd rather see the back of your wellies, Christchurch on the South Island gets half that. It is still, however, recovering from 2011's earthquake.You can visit New Zealand for up to six months without a visa, but to stay beyond that you will need to do some extra paperwork. There are several different visas for people who are going to New Zealand to work, including an essential skills visa aimed at highly qualified workers aged under 55 who can fill shortage skills and a working holiday visa for under-30s.The essential skills visa is usually granted for three years, but if the job you are doing meets the highest level of the government's ranking and you earn at least $55,000 (\u00a328,200) a year, you may get a permit to stay for five years.If the job is ranked low in the government's list you may just get a one-year visa. The working holiday visa lasts 23 months. There are also \"work to residence\" visas for employees offered jobs in occupations on the long-term skills shortage list or by accredited employers.If you want to retire to New Zealand there are two possible ways to get a visa: if you have a child who is resident there you could apply for a visa under the parent category; or you could apply as an investor. The temporary retirement category for investors offers a two-year visa to anyone aged over 66 who is willing to invest NZ$750,000 in New Zealand for two years and has NZ$500,000 in funds to live on and an income of at least NZ$60,000 a year.Anyone applying for a visa under the parent category will be prioritised if they have a sponsor who earns at least $65,000 a year, their own guaranteed income of $27,203 a year, or at least NZ$500,000 in funds to move to the country. Otherwise they need a sponsor who earns at least $33,675 a year. Anyone applying for an investment visa must have travel and/or health insurance.You can draw a UK state pension but you will not be entitled to the annual increases. Your pension will be frozen either at the rate it reaches when you move, if you are already drawing it, or at the rate it is when you first qualify if by that point you are already living in New Zealand. If you qualify for the New Zealand state pension, known as Superannuation, the value of your UK state pension will be subtracted from your payout.What airport will you arrive at? The airports in Auckland and Christchurch are the best served by flights from the UK and cost the least to get to.Local currency New Zealand dollar. The NZ$ is divided into 100 cents. On 12 November 2012 NZ$1 was worth 51p and \u00a31 would buy NZ$1.94.How do you spot a cab? New Zealand doesn't have any iconic cabs but it does have plenty of taxis to hire.Price of a hotel room In the first half of 2012 the average room rate was \u00a374, according to Hotels.com.Price of a house The median house price in September 2012 was NZ$371,000 (\u00a3191,000), according to the Real Estate Institute.Price of a pint of milk 69p, and NZ$2.38 a litre, according to Numbeo.What language do most people speak? New Zealand has three official languages: English, Maori and New Zealand sign language. English is the most widely used and is the language of the courts, parliament, schools and the public sector.What tax will you pay? The tax year runs from 1 April to 31 March. If you spend more than 183 days of a year in New Zealand you will be considered a resident for tax purposes, but when you first arrive you may qualify as a transitional tax resident. This will give you exemptions from paying tax on any income earned outside New Zealand for four years, as long as it isn't related to work you are doing while in the country. This means income from a UK pension during this period is not taxable in New Zealand.There is no tax-free income allowance in New Zealand \u2013 everyone is taxed on all of their earnings; the starting rate of tax is 10.5%.\u2022 Like in the UK, New Zealanders drive on the left-hand side of the road.\u2022 The place with the longest name in the world is in New Zealand. In full it is Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateapokaiwhenuakitanatahu, but you can usually get away with calling it Taumata.\u2022 You cannot be more than 128km from the sea anywhere in New Zealand.\u2022 New Zealand claims to have the highest number of bookshops and Scottish pipe bands per head in the world.\u2022 As well as the famous kiwi, you can also spot penguins \u2013 three species make their home around the country.\u2022 More people die in New Zealand each year playing lawn bowls than scuba diving.\u2022 Frying Pan Lake near Rotorua is the world's largest hot water spring: temperatures reach 200C at its deepest point.Ben Payne, 43, lives in Howick on the south-eastern side of Auckland on New Zealand's North Island. He works as the general manager of sales and marketing for an aerosol manufacturer. He and his family moved there on Boxing Day in 2001 \"predominantly due to the cost of living following the birth of our first child\", he says.\"Living in the Midlands \u2013 Leamington Spa \u2013 we both needed to work to pay the mortgage and the childcare fees; we felt trapped in a vicious circle. In New Zealand we were able to establish ourselves on a single income in a beachside area of Auckland. Seeing the sea every morning is magical after having grown up two hours away from the closest coast. Although I do miss seeing Warwick castle every day.\"Payne says it is easy to meet other expats if you want to. \"The area we are in is well populated with Brits, South Africans, Asians and Australians,\" he says.His advice to other would-be expats? \"Be open-minded, life is good here, but it isn't nirvana \u2013 we have our share of challenges. Don't necessarily hunt out the Brits, try and fit in with the locals, because most will have come from somewhere else anyway.\"And finally, if it doesn't work out, don't share \u2013 there is nothing worse than listening to people who didn't do their research moaning about the country they have moved to.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in New Zealand? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"New Zealand\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to New Zealand in the comments section. ", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance", "Money"], "title": "A UK expat's guide to New Zealand"},{"date": "2012-11-16T22:44:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "There are three stories you'll hear about The Lord of the Rings in New Zealand. The first is the tale of a wealthy man, a Tolkien fan from the US, who asked the makers of the movies' One Ring to come up with a costly gold replica, then hired a helicopter to fly him over Mount Doom, where he threw it into the flaming inferno. At least, that's how they tell it in Wellington. In Nelson, it's a woman, a spurned lover, who threw her One Ring wedding band into the mouth of the volcano. Then there's the story of the six-foot-three German tourist who arrived at Hobbiton dressed as, well, a very tall hobbit, who felt so at home in one of the hobbit holes there that he squashed himself into it and refused to leave for 12 hours. In Auckland, they'll tell you he was Belgian.The Lord of the Rings has been big business in New Zealand ever since Wellington-born director Peter Jackson decided to film his trilogy here, back in the late 1990s. Now, with the imminent release of The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey \u2013 the first instalment in the new movie trilogy spun from the far shorter book \u2013 there's another opportunity to attract Tolkien devotees.People involved with Middle Earth-related tours talk wearily of copyright back-and-forths with the Tolkien estate and with New Line Cinema; it was, initially, hard for them to market anything local as an official Lord of the Rings experience. There's very much a sense that the tourism which followed the films' release took all parties by surprise, and they're preparing for it properly this time.The biggest name in the game right now is Hobbiton, a sheep farm that doubled as the Shire for both trilogies. It's about two hours' drive from Auckland, near Matamata; stop in any of the creaking cafes in the small towns along the way (\"Collect your Hot Mail here!\" reads the proud sign on one) and you'll bump into a minibus full of pilgrims on the same journey. If you're very lucky, one of the lesser-spotted costumed devotees may make an appearance, though on a brisk early spring day, you need more than just a cloak to keep you warm, so we didn't spy any Gandalfs.Jackson's location scouts saw potential in Alexander Farm's rolling green hills, lake, and, crucially, large pines \u2013 one of which would eventually become Bilbo's party tree. After filming was completed in 2004, the set was dismantled, before anyone realised that a massive opportunity had been missed. When it was rebuilt for The Hobbit, the farm fought to keep its hobbit holes.The artwork on the sides of the mini-buses that take people down to the main site still bear the scars of its cobbled-together past. The post-LOTR hobbit holes resembled a Changing Rooms project gone bad, with plain MDF facades fronting holes to nowhere, and though those early visitors may have been disappointed, they did get the option of feeding lambs at the end of the tour, a tradition that still stands today. Sure, you could survey a bit of grass where Elijah Wood once placed his hairy prosthetic feet, but in its original incarnation, these moments required Tolkien-esque powers of imagination.These days it's far slicker operation, though there is a peculiar feeling to flying for 26 hours only to find yourself in a place that has been chosen for its resemblance to the Malvern Hills. Then there's the fact that the 37 hobbit holes vary greatly in size to accommodate the different heights of the actors playing hobbits and dwarves at any one time. Oh, and that oak tree that sits majestically above Bag End? Its plastic leaves, imported from Taiwan, blow off in the wind, and have to be replaced every year or so because visitors keep pinching them as souvenirs.So while it may feel like you're taking a gentle stroll around a lusciously green film set, it can be quietly disorientating. Avoid going the day after you land, lest any remaining jetlag tip you over the edge. Perhaps that's what happened to the giant German/Belgian hobbit who claimed he had found his home here.Hobbiton may be the main event for now, but Wellington, on the southern tip of the North Island, is about to take over, renaming itself \"The Middle of Middle Earth\" at the end of November in time for the world premiere of The Hobbit. Back in September, there was little sign of the mania to come, though it already drew on its LOTR history. We spent an afternoon on a Lord of the Rings Movie Tours minibus, along with a couple of hardcore Tolkien fans, who made Hobbiton's gentle visitors look like pathetic amateurs.It's a winding drive \u2013 as are most of them in the terminally bendy-roaded New Zealand \u2013 up to Mount Victoria, which is less of a mountain and more of a hill, but which hosted a number of the scenes set in the Hobbiton woods in The Fellowship of the Ring: its paths are marked by cute \"hobbit-height\" posts.Our Movie Tours guide, Alice, had brought along a laptop, so we could view clips while standing on the very spot in which they were filmed. She also had props. I proudly reenacted a Sam and Frodo breakfast, a deleted scene restored to the extended edition of The Fellowship of the Ring (again, this is not for amateurs), complete with pipe and replica frying pan.Next, we came to the hill down which the hobbits roll when they're on the run from Farmer Maggot. \"Do you want to make a hobbit pile?\" asked Alice.\"Go on then,\" we shrugged, preparing to throw ourselves on the floor. I looked over at the other couple on the tour with us, who, judging by their furrowed brows and the number of questions they were asking about the minutiae of the trilogy, were taking it rather more seriously than us. They stared back, appalled. We did not make a hobbit pile.I asked Alice if she'd been a fan of the movies before she took the job. \"I wasn't,\" she admitted. \"I know everything about them now, though.\"This seems to be how it is in New Zealand. Everyone has taken up their Hobbity associations with enthusiasm, from the two mountains that stood in for Mount Doom \u2013 Mount Ngauruhoe and Mount Ruapehu, with additional help from scale models and CGI \u2013 to the small family-owned vineyard in Nelson, on the South Island, which won a licence to stick Middle Earth on the labels of its surprisingly delicious wines. You can hire a helicopter to fly out over more remote locations, or visit the gold and silversmith who made the One Ring for the movies.You can't drive for more than an hour without somebody pointing out a waterfall that might have had Orlando Bloom underneath it or a restaurant that Sir Ian McKellen liked to have his dinner in. What's nice about it is that the famous laid-back New Zealand character is in the fabric of everything. It doesn't feel opportune so much as a country going along with something that happened to come its way.In fact, what may have been our most authentic Hobbit experience wasn't marketed as one at all. The Waitomo Caves, on the North Island, offer a series of \"adventure options\" that range from a leisurely underground stroll to look at glowworms to the Haggas Honking Holes challenge, which earns a maximum eight Rambo Points in the brochure. With hindsight, I would recommend you respect this points system, and not undertake an intensive caving experience thinking that mild claustrophobia and a fatal lack of upper body strength would be minor considerations.The name refers to a hollow cavity deep underground that \"honks\" back at you when you put your head into it and shout, but it sounds like something straight out of the Shire. And at no point did I feel more like a plucky hobbit than the moment I emerged into the sunlight after two hours of abseiling into underground caverns, crawling through freezing streams on my belly and squashing myself through inhuman gaps in the walls. When Bilbo Baggins and the dwarves journey over the Misty Mountains, they shelter from a storm in a cave that turns out to be a goblin hotspot. As I peeled off my wetsuit and examined the bruises that were just starting to appear on my hands, I realised I would have done well to heed Tolkien's warning in chapter five: \"That, of course, is the dangerous part about caves: you don't know how far they go back, sometimes, or where a passage behind may lead to, or what is waiting for you inside.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Travel", "Australasia holidays", "Lord of the Rings", "JRR Tolkien", "Wellington holidays"], "title": "On the Hobbit trail in New Zealand"},{"date": "2012-11-12T12:05:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "I have been the Managing Director of Bupa Care Services in New Zealand since 2006. We're one of the country's leading providers of care services, offering personal medical alarms, hospitals, rest homes and retirement villages - from Whangarei to Invercargill in the South.Supporting over 15,000 customers and residents, we employ more than 3,400 employees. We are driven by a passion to help our older citizens live the richest, most satisfying lives possible.For us, Bupa's commitment to a Well World not only recognises the care and support we already provide, but helps us to think how we can extend this care to people and communities beyond our care homes. Well World has also reminded us of the importance of taking care of our own health and wellbeing, and inspired us to consider how we can minimise the impact of our operations on the environment. Improving the health and wellbeing of millions of peopleBupa's Get Walking, Keep Walking research revealed that in New Zealand, 22 percent of men and 21 percent of women say they frequently drive short journeys they can walk. Walking is a simple lifestyle change that we can all adopt, to reduce the chance of long term health problems like diabetes and climate change. Not only is it good for your health, it's good for the environment too.In September 2012, we took part in the Bupa Global Challenge to inspire our residents, staff and our broader community to get walking and keep walking. The results were amazing and helped us connect people, in both a practical and emotional way, to the goals we are collectively trying to achieve. Care Homes across the country participated in history and community walks, bringing staff, residents, families and communities together in settings as varied as lakesides and parks and all the way to the foothills of the Southern Alps by our care home in Queenstown.Gordon Brown, a 96 year old resident in our Glenburn Retirement Village, led a walk with staff, residents and families to raise money for Oxfam. Staff in our David Lange Care Home in Mangere East worked with Keep New Zealand Beautiful to combine a walk with a clean-up of local streets. And in Auckland, we partnered with Auckland City Council and Auckland Transport to create the \"Walk to Support\" Walking School Bus week. Hundreds of students walked with their grandparents or older family members during this week, not only gaining health benefits but enjoying quality time with one another.Workplace HealthThe B-fit programme is one of the ways we fulfil our commitment to keep our own people well. B-Fit includes a health check and then activities to maintain a healthy body, mind and habits. Staff at all of our sites have a B-fit Champion to support the programme and to encourage everyone to get involved. The response so far has been outstanding with around half of all staff participating in some way, and including anything from attending \"weigh-ins\" to tending \"worm farms\". Carbon footprintIn New Zealand, we have been working very hard to reduce the carbon footprint of our operations. From investing in solar and geothermal power, energy efficient laundry services serving multiple homes, to rain water harvesting and changing all our shower heads and mixers to conserve water.\u2013 we take our environmental responsibilities seriously and encourage all of our people to play their part. In 2011, we were proud to have reduced our carbon footprint rate by 12.7% as compared to 2009. PartnershipsWe are particularly proud of our partnerships with many organisations such as Alzheimers New Zealand and Carers NZ. Carers NZ represent the over 200,000 informal carers that do such a wonderful job of caring for their loved ones at home. Bupa has supported Carers NZ for over 7 years by helping them develop resources, information and support for carers as well as encourage them to look after their own health. A recent new initiative will be the launch of \"Cares Air\" where we are beginning to make a lot more of this information available by web and streaming video. Whilst there's more to do, Bupa in New Zealand is proud to embrace Bupa's Well World commitments. For more information on these commitments, please visit our Bupa Well World website.Dwayne Crombie, is managing director of Bupa care services in New ZealandCopy on this page is provided by Bupa, supporter of the health and wellbeing hub.", "tags": ["Partner zone Bupa", "Role of business from Bupa"], "title": "Embracing a well world in New Zealand"},{"date": "2012-11-27T08:45:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand has much to offer UK expats: the climate is good, there is plenty of space, the scenery is beautiful and lots of people speak English. No wonder it scored highest for quality of life in a recent survey of expats.It is crying out for skilled young workers and offers Brits under the age of 30 the chance to apply for a working visa that lasts almost two years. Skilled migrants can be granted a stay of up to five years. Pensioners need to make a serious investment in the New Zealand economy if they want to make it their home, but even so, more than 50,000 Brits have chosen to live there in retirement.If you are worried you might miss using your umbrella, head to Auckland on the North Island which is blessed with 1,240mm of rain a year; if you'd rather see the back of your wellies, Christchurch on the South Island gets half that. It is still, however, recovering from 2011's earthquake.You can visit New Zealand for up to six months without a visa, but to stay beyond that you will need to do some extra paperwork. There are several different visas for people who are going to New Zealand to work, including an essential skills visa aimed at highly qualified workers aged under 55 who can fill shortage skills and a working holiday visa for under-30s.The essential skills visa is usually granted for three years, but if the job you are doing meets the highest level of the government's ranking and you earn at least $55,000 (\u00a328,200) a year, you may get a permit to stay for five years.If the job is ranked low in the government's list you may just get a one-year visa. The working holiday visa lasts 23 months. There are also \"work to residence\" visas for employees offered jobs in occupations on the long-term skills shortage list or by accredited employers.If you want to retire to New Zealand there are two possible ways to get a visa: if you have a child who is resident there you could apply for a visa under the parent category; or you could apply as an investor. The temporary retirement category for investors offers a two-year visa to anyone aged over 66 who is willing to invest NZ$750,000 in New Zealand for two years and has NZ$500,000 in funds to live on and an income of at least NZ$60,000 a year.Anyone applying for a visa under the parent category will be prioritised if they have a sponsor who earns at least $65,000 a year, their own guaranteed income of $27,203 a year, or at least NZ$500,000 in funds to move to the country. Otherwise they need a sponsor who earns at least $33,675 a year. Anyone applying for an investment visa must have travel and/or health insurance.You can draw a UK state pension but you will not be entitled to the annual increases. Your pension will be frozen either at the rate it reaches when you move, if you are already drawing it, or at the rate it is when you first qualify if by that point you are already living in New Zealand. If you qualify for the New Zealand state pension, known as Superannuation, the value of your UK state pension will be subtracted from your payout.What airport will you arrive at? The airports in Auckland and Christchurch are the best served by flights from the UK and cost the least to get to.Local currency New Zealand dollar. The NZ$ is divided into 100 cents. On 12 November 2012 NZ$1 was worth 51p and \u00a31 would buy NZ$1.94.How do you spot a cab? New Zealand doesn't have any iconic cabs but it does have plenty of taxis to hire.Price of a hotel room In the first half of 2012 the average room rate was \u00a374, according to Hotels.com.Price of a house The median house price in September 2012 was NZ$371,000 (\u00a3191,000), according to the Real Estate Institute.Price of a pint of milk 69p, and NZ$2.38 a litre, according to Numbeo.What language do most people speak? New Zealand has three official languages: English, Maori and New Zealand sign language. English is the most widely used and is the language of the courts, parliament, schools and the public sector.What tax will you pay? The tax year runs from 1 April to 31 March. If you spend more than 183 days of a year in New Zealand you will be considered a resident for tax purposes, but when you first arrive you may qualify as a transitional tax resident. This will give you exemptions from paying tax on any income earned outside New Zealand for four years, as long as it isn't related to work you are doing while in the country. This means income from a UK pension during this period is not taxable in New Zealand.There is no tax-free income allowance in New Zealand \u2013 everyone is taxed on all of their earnings; the starting rate of tax is 10.5%.\u2022 Like in the UK, New Zealanders drive on the left-hand side of the road.\u2022 The place with the longest name in the world is in New Zealand. In full it is Taumatawhakatangihangakoauauotamateapokaiwhenuakitanatahu, but you can usually get away with calling it Taumata.\u2022 You cannot be more than 128km from the sea anywhere in New Zealand.\u2022 New Zealand claims to have the highest number of bookshops and Scottish pipe bands per head in the world.\u2022 As well as the famous kiwi, you can also spot penguins \u2013 three species make their home around the country.\u2022 More people die in New Zealand each year playing lawn bowls than scuba diving.\u2022 Frying Pan Lake near Rotorua is the world's largest hot water spring: temperatures reach 200C at its deepest point.Ben Payne, 43, lives in Howick on the south-eastern side of Auckland on New Zealand's North Island. He works as the general manager of sales and marketing for an aerosol manufacturer. He and his family moved there on Boxing Day in 2001 \"predominantly due to the cost of living following the birth of our first child\", he says.\"Living in the Midlands \u2013 Leamington Spa \u2013 we both needed to work to pay the mortgage and the childcare fees; we felt trapped in a vicious circle. In New Zealand we were able to establish ourselves on a single income in a beachside area of Auckland. Seeing the sea every morning is magical after having grown up two hours away from the closest coast. Although I do miss seeing Warwick castle every day.\"Payne says it is easy to meet other expats if you want to. \"The area we are in is well populated with Brits, South Africans, Asians and Australians,\" he says.His advice to other would-be expats? \"Be open-minded, life is good here, but it isn't nirvana \u2013 we have our share of challenges. Don't necessarily hunt out the Brits, try and fit in with the locals, because most will have come from somewhere else anyway.\"And finally, if it doesn't work out, don't share \u2013 there is nothing worse than listening to people who didn't do their research moaning about the country they have moved to.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in New Zealand? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"New Zealand\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to New Zealand in the comments section. ", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance", "Money"], "title": "A UK expat's guide to New Zealand"},{"date": "2012-11-16T22:44:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "There are three stories you'll hear about The Lord of the Rings in New Zealand. The first is the tale of a wealthy man, a Tolkien fan from the US, who asked the makers of the movies' One Ring to come up with a costly gold replica, then hired a helicopter to fly him over Mount Doom, where he threw it into the flaming inferno. At least, that's how they tell it in Wellington. In Nelson, it's a woman, a spurned lover, who threw her One Ring wedding band into the mouth of the volcano. Then there's the story of the six-foot-three German tourist who arrived at Hobbiton dressed as, well, a very tall hobbit, who felt so at home in one of the hobbit holes there that he squashed himself into it and refused to leave for 12 hours. In Auckland, they'll tell you he was Belgian.The Lord of the Rings has been big business in New Zealand ever since Wellington-born director Peter Jackson decided to film his trilogy here, back in the late 1990s. Now, with the imminent release of The Hobbit: An Unexpected Journey \u2013 the first instalment in the new movie trilogy spun from the far shorter book \u2013 there's another opportunity to attract Tolkien devotees.People involved with Middle Earth-related tours talk wearily of copyright back-and-forths with the Tolkien estate and with New Line Cinema; it was, initially, hard for them to market anything local as an official Lord of the Rings experience. There's very much a sense that the tourism which followed the films' release took all parties by surprise, and they're preparing for it properly this time.The biggest name in the game right now is Hobbiton, a sheep farm that doubled as the Shire for both trilogies. It's about two hours' drive from Auckland, near Matamata; stop in any of the creaking cafes in the small towns along the way (\"Collect your Hot Mail here!\" reads the proud sign on one) and you'll bump into a minibus full of pilgrims on the same journey. If you're very lucky, one of the lesser-spotted costumed devotees may make an appearance, though on a brisk early spring day, you need more than just a cloak to keep you warm, so we didn't spy any Gandalfs.Jackson's location scouts saw potential in Alexander Farm's rolling green hills, lake, and, crucially, large pines \u2013 one of which would eventually become Bilbo's party tree. After filming was completed in 2004, the set was dismantled, before anyone realised that a massive opportunity had been missed. When it was rebuilt for The Hobbit, the farm fought to keep its hobbit holes.The artwork on the sides of the mini-buses that take people down to the main site still bear the scars of its cobbled-together past. The post-LOTR hobbit holes resembled a Changing Rooms project gone bad, with plain MDF facades fronting holes to nowhere, and though those early visitors may have been disappointed, they did get the option of feeding lambs at the end of the tour, a tradition that still stands today. Sure, you could survey a bit of grass where Elijah Wood once placed his hairy prosthetic feet, but in its original incarnation, these moments required Tolkien-esque powers of imagination.These days it's far slicker operation, though there is a peculiar feeling to flying for 26 hours only to find yourself in a place that has been chosen for its resemblance to the Malvern Hills. Then there's the fact that the 37 hobbit holes vary greatly in size to accommodate the different heights of the actors playing hobbits and dwarves at any one time. Oh, and that oak tree that sits majestically above Bag End? Its plastic leaves, imported from Taiwan, blow off in the wind, and have to be replaced every year or so because visitors keep pinching them as souvenirs.So while it may feel like you're taking a gentle stroll around a lusciously green film set, it can be quietly disorientating. Avoid going the day after you land, lest any remaining jetlag tip you over the edge. Perhaps that's what happened to the giant German/Belgian hobbit who claimed he had found his home here.Hobbiton may be the main event for now, but Wellington, on the southern tip of the North Island, is about to take over, renaming itself \"The Middle of Middle Earth\" at the end of November in time for the world premiere of The Hobbit. Back in September, there was little sign of the mania to come, though it already drew on its LOTR history. We spent an afternoon on a Lord of the Rings Movie Tours minibus, along with a couple of hardcore Tolkien fans, who made Hobbiton's gentle visitors look like pathetic amateurs.It's a winding drive \u2013 as are most of them in the terminally bendy-roaded New Zealand \u2013 up to Mount Victoria, which is less of a mountain and more of a hill, but which hosted a number of the scenes set in the Hobbiton woods in The Fellowship of the Ring: its paths are marked by cute \"hobbit-height\" posts.Our Movie Tours guide, Alice, had brought along a laptop, so we could view clips while standing on the very spot in which they were filmed. She also had props. I proudly reenacted a Sam and Frodo breakfast, a deleted scene restored to the extended edition of The Fellowship of the Ring (again, this is not for amateurs), complete with pipe and replica frying pan.Next, we came to the hill down which the hobbits roll when they're on the run from Farmer Maggot. \"Do you want to make a hobbit pile?\" asked Alice.\"Go on then,\" we shrugged, preparing to throw ourselves on the floor. I looked over at the other couple on the tour with us, who, judging by their furrowed brows and the number of questions they were asking about the minutiae of the trilogy, were taking it rather more seriously than us. They stared back, appalled. We did not make a hobbit pile.I asked Alice if she'd been a fan of the movies before she took the job. \"I wasn't,\" she admitted. \"I know everything about them now, though.\"This seems to be how it is in New Zealand. Everyone has taken up their Hobbity associations with enthusiasm, from the two mountains that stood in for Mount Doom \u2013 Mount Ngauruhoe and Mount Ruapehu, with additional help from scale models and CGI \u2013 to the small family-owned vineyard in Nelson, on the South Island, which won a licence to stick Middle Earth on the labels of its surprisingly delicious wines. You can hire a helicopter to fly out over more remote locations, or visit the gold and silversmith who made the One Ring for the movies.You can't drive for more than an hour without somebody pointing out a waterfall that might have had Orlando Bloom underneath it or a restaurant that Sir Ian McKellen liked to have his dinner in. What's nice about it is that the famous laid-back New Zealand character is in the fabric of everything. It doesn't feel opportune so much as a country going along with something that happened to come its way.In fact, what may have been our most authentic Hobbit experience wasn't marketed as one at all. The Waitomo Caves, on the North Island, offer a series of \"adventure options\" that range from a leisurely underground stroll to look at glowworms to the Haggas Honking Holes challenge, which earns a maximum eight Rambo Points in the brochure. With hindsight, I would recommend you respect this points system, and not undertake an intensive caving experience thinking that mild claustrophobia and a fatal lack of upper body strength would be minor considerations.The name refers to a hollow cavity deep underground that \"honks\" back at you when you put your head into it and shout, but it sounds like something straight out of the Shire. And at no point did I feel more like a plucky hobbit than the moment I emerged into the sunlight after two hours of abseiling into underground caverns, crawling through freezing streams on my belly and squashing myself through inhuman gaps in the walls. When Bilbo Baggins and the dwarves journey over the Misty Mountains, they shelter from a storm in a cave that turns out to be a goblin hotspot. As I peeled off my wetsuit and examined the bruises that were just starting to appear on my hands, I realised I would have done well to heed Tolkien's warning in chapter five: \"That, of course, is the dangerous part about caves: you don't know how far they go back, sometimes, or where a passage behind may lead to, or what is waiting for you inside.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Travel", "Australasia holidays", "Lord of the Rings", "JRR Tolkien", "Wellington holidays"], "title": "On the Hobbit trail in New Zealand"},{"date": "2012-11-12T12:05:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "I have been the Managing Director of Bupa Care Services in New Zealand since 2006. We're one of the country's leading providers of care services, offering personal medical alarms, hospitals, rest homes and retirement villages - from Whangarei to Invercargill in the South.Supporting over 15,000 customers and residents, we employ more than 3,400 employees. We are driven by a passion to help our older citizens live the richest, most satisfying lives possible.For us, Bupa's commitment to a Well World not only recognises the care and support we already provide, but helps us to think how we can extend this care to people and communities beyond our care homes. Well World has also reminded us of the importance of taking care of our own health and wellbeing, and inspired us to consider how we can minimise the impact of our operations on the environment. Improving the health and wellbeing of millions of peopleBupa's Get Walking, Keep Walking research revealed that in New Zealand, 22 percent of men and 21 percent of women say they frequently drive short journeys they can walk. Walking is a simple lifestyle change that we can all adopt, to reduce the chance of long term health problems like diabetes and climate change. Not only is it good for your health, it's good for the environment too.In September 2012, we took part in the Bupa Global Challenge to inspire our residents, staff and our broader community to get walking and keep walking. The results were amazing and helped us connect people, in both a practical and emotional way, to the goals we are collectively trying to achieve. Care Homes across the country participated in history and community walks, bringing staff, residents, families and communities together in settings as varied as lakesides and parks and all the way to the foothills of the Southern Alps by our care home in Queenstown.Gordon Brown, a 96 year old resident in our Glenburn Retirement Village, led a walk with staff, residents and families to raise money for Oxfam. Staff in our David Lange Care Home in Mangere East worked with Keep New Zealand Beautiful to combine a walk with a clean-up of local streets. And in Auckland, we partnered with Auckland City Council and Auckland Transport to create the \"Walk to Support\" Walking School Bus week. Hundreds of students walked with their grandparents or older family members during this week, not only gaining health benefits but enjoying quality time with one another.Workplace HealthThe B-fit programme is one of the ways we fulfil our commitment to keep our own people well. B-Fit includes a health check and then activities to maintain a healthy body, mind and habits. Staff at all of our sites have a B-fit Champion to support the programme and to encourage everyone to get involved. The response so far has been outstanding with around half of all staff participating in some way, and including anything from attending \"weigh-ins\" to tending \"worm farms\". Carbon footprintIn New Zealand, we have been working very hard to reduce the carbon footprint of our operations. From investing in solar and geothermal power, energy efficient laundry services serving multiple homes, to rain water harvesting and changing all our shower heads and mixers to conserve water.\u2013 we take our environmental responsibilities seriously and encourage all of our people to play their part. In 2011, we were proud to have reduced our carbon footprint rate by 12.7% as compared to 2009. PartnershipsWe are particularly proud of our partnerships with many organisations such as Alzheimers New Zealand and Carers NZ. Carers NZ represent the over 200,000 informal carers that do such a wonderful job of caring for their loved ones at home. Bupa has supported Carers NZ for over 7 years by helping them develop resources, information and support for carers as well as encourage them to look after their own health. A recent new initiative will be the launch of \"Cares Air\" where we are beginning to make a lot more of this information available by web and streaming video. Whilst there's more to do, Bupa in New Zealand is proud to embrace Bupa's Well World commitments. For more information on these commitments, please visit our Bupa Well World website.Dwayne Crombie, is managing director of Bupa care services in New ZealandCopy on this page is provided by Bupa, supporter of the health and wellbeing hub.", "tags": ["Partner zone Bupa", "Role of business from Bupa"], "title": "Embracing a well world in New Zealand"},{"date": "2012-10-04T11:43:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Preamble Morning. This is, I think, our first ever women's cricket OBO, and we're only about a decade too late. Fashionably late. England have been brilliant for years now, managing the kind of sustained success usually beyond British sporting teams. They won the World Cup and the World T20 in 2009, held the Ashes from 2005 to 2010 and are big favourites to win this tournament after a staggering run of 29 wins in 31 games. Who says 20-over cricket is a lottery?They should beat New Zealand today, although it's no formality; if they do they will face West Indies or, more probably, Australia in the final on Sunday. They beat Australia in a dead rubber during the group stages, thanks mainly to a stunning innings from the little genius Sarah Taylor. She is the brightest star in a team full of them.England have won the toss and will bowl first. That's slightly counter-intuitive, given that England use their spinners to strangle teams, but the approach has served them extremely well in this tournament so far.England Edwards (c), Marsh, Taylor (wk), Greenway, Brindle, Wyatt, Gunn, Brunt, Hazell, Colvin, Shrubsole.New Zealand Bates (c), Satterthwaite, Devine, Mackay, McGlashan, Browne, Martin (wk), Bermingham, Doolan, Nielsen, Ruck.It's a sweltering day in Colombo \u2013 \"stinking hot\" says Nasser Hussain on Sky \u2013 and the pitch is, as you'd expect, a dry turner.For the first time since Boxing Day 2010 (can anyone remember what happened then? I've forgotten) I'm doing this OBO from home. It's important to stress that, if there are no updates for 10 minutes, we are having technical problems and I emphatically have not fallen asleep in a droolpool on the sofa.WICKET! New Zealand 0-1 (Bates run out 0) The New Zealand captain Suzie Bates is run out for a duck! She was getting twitchy after four dot balls from Katherine Brunt, and set off for a ludicrous single after a push into the covers. Amy Satterthwaite was having none of it \u2013 not interested! \u2013 and sent her back. Bates was miles short when Lydia Greenway threw in for Sarah Taylor to break the stumps. That's a huge breakthrough for England because Bates is probably New Zealand's most dangerous batsman.1st over: New Zealand 0-1 (Satterthwaite 0, Devine 0) This, it's fair to say, has been a good start for England.2nd over: New Zealand 4-1 (Satterthwaite 3, Devine 1) The offspinner Danni Hazell shares the new ball. Satterthwaite pulls New Zealand's first run off the 10th delivery and then clouts a slog-sweep just short of Greenway at deep midwicket.3rd over: New Zealand 7-1 (Satterthwaite 4, Devine 3) Brunt is one of world cricket's feistier new-ball bowlers, and she's tearing in here. There's a bit of swing too and her last delivery curves sweetly past Satterthwaite's booming drive. Still no boundaries for New Zealand.\"Is Sarah Taylor good enough to play in the County Championship?\" wonders Sam Silverwood-Cope. \"Would rules also allow it? If so would this be a good thing for women's cricket? I'd personally love to see it. Have a good day. Plus happy birthday to my twin brother Tom.\" I suspect she is, although it's hard to judge these things. I'm pretty sure Selve thinks she is good enough. I doubt the regulations allow it, though I don't actually know. You're welcome!4th over: New Zealand 12-1 (Satterthwaite 5, Devine 7) It's a like-for-like bowling change: offspinner for offspinner, Danni for Danni. This time it's Danni Wyatt. Sophie Devine rocks back to cut three through the covers and then fails to take advantage of a filthy full toss. Satterthwaite then survives a huge appeal for LBW; I don't think it straightened quite enough to the left-hander, although it was a very decent shout. Hawkeye showed it was just clipping the outside of leg stump, so you can't really argue with Marais Erasmus's decision. New Zealand are already under pressure here.5th over: New Zealand 16-1 (Satterthwaite 5, Devine 11) Devine edges Brunt low for four, New Zealand's first boundary. Brunt responds by ripping a short ball past Devine's attempted pull and spearing in an excellent yorker that is dug out. Outstanding bowling from Brunt; just four from the over, and they came off the edge.\"What's the pitch like today?\" asks Indy Neogy. \"Any thoughts what would be a good score from the England bowlers point of view?\" It looks a good pitch, if a little slow and low. I don't think they would be too perturbed about chasing anything under 140. The only concern for England is that \u2013 as with the Australia Men's team the other day \u2013 the middle order hasn't had much of a hit because of the excellence of the top three.WICKET! New Zealand 17-2 (Devine c Brunt b Wyatt 11) Another one down. Devine slog-sweeps Wyatt straight to deep midwicket, where Brunt takes a calm low catch and celebrates by striking a Usain Bolt pose.6th over: New Zealand 22-2 (Satterthwaite 10, Mackay 0) Wyatt is teasing the batsmen by tossing it up, and Satterthwaite is beaten in the flight as she attempts a slog-sweep. The last ball is driven back through Wyatt for four.7th over: New Zealand 23-2 (Satterthwaite 10, Mackay 1) Anya Shrubsole, the right-arm seamer, replaces Brunt and zips a good delivery past Satterthwaite's attempted drive. A slower ball beats the outside edge next ball. Just one from the over. New Zealand are in trouble here; something will have to give pretty soon.8th over: New Zealand 25-2 (Satterthwaite 11, Mackay 2) Hazell returns to the attack. As so often in recent times, England are inflicting a slow death on their opponents. Just two singles from Hazell's over. New Zealand are really struggling to pierce the infield.\"Tenuously linking to women's cricket, I flicked over to nerdy BBC4 quiz show Only Connect this week, which included a team of cricket fans, one of whom was called Andrea Lowe,\" says David Hopkins. \"Wasn't she an OBO regular back in the Booth days? I now fully expect to see Gary Naylor on Pointless and Mac Millings on The Cube.\" She was indeed. Possibly the first OBOette, from memory, though it was before my time.WICKET! New Zealand 30-3 (Mackay LBW b Shrubsole 2) New Zealand are in disarray. Mackay survived a biggish LBW shout earlier in the over but was given out when she pushed around a very full delivery from Shrubsole. There was a bit of doubt as to whether it was sneaking down leg side, but I suspect Hawkeye will show that was clipping.9th over: New Zealand 30-3 (Satterthwaite 16, McGlashan 0) Hawkeye shows that it was indeed clipping leg stump, so Bruce Oxenford's decision was fair enough. Even by England's standards this has been a seriously good performance.10th over: New Zealand 38-3 (Satterthwaite 22, McGlashan 2) Here's Laura Marsh to bowl her offspin. The fourth ball turns past McGlashan's outside edge and then Satterthwaite, beaten in the flight, slices an attempted slog-sweep to third man for four.\"Morning Rob!\" says Ryan Dunne. \" Like many, I'm delighted to find a new variation of MBM/OBO/HBH etc, but surely I can't be the only one disappointed that the Guardian didn't get one of its fine sportshacks to MBM last night's Presidential debate? Instead of 'WICKET!\"' you could have had \"ZINGER!\" for especially witty comments by the candidates, \"refresh the page if the response description didn't appear\" , emailed in comments of romantic desperation (with e.g. a political twist!) from readers etc.\" We don't get to cover Real Life, Dunne, you know that. That exists in an entirely separate part of London to the airless sport bunker.WICKET! New Zealand 42-4 (McGlashan st Taylor b Colvin 3) Beautiful bowling from the left-arm spinner Holly Colvin. Throughout her first over she has been bowling really slowly, at snail's pace (or should that be Snape's pace). McGlashan was completely done in the flight as she came down the track, and the brilliant Sarah Taylor had the bails off in an instant.11th over: New Zealand 42-4 (Satterthwaite 24, Browne 0) \"Anyone ever taken seriously (apart from Lord Selvey) the notion that Sarah Taylor should be in an England men's team?\" says Ravi Nair. \"She is surely good enough behind the stumps AND she can bat.\" She's good \u2013 she's a genius \u2013 but she's not that good. And her mate Matt Prior might have something to say about it. That stumping was pure class, mind.12th over: New Zealand 49-4 (Satterthwaite 26, Browne 5) It's been so refreshing to see England's phalanx of spinners flight the ball so often. There have been no darts today. That flight does allow Nicola Browne to clout Laura Marsh over midwicket for four. New Zealand need a few more of those.13th over: New Zealand 53-4 (Satterthwaite 28, Browne 7) New Zealand probably need 120 to have any chance of winning, although even then England would be strong favourites. Colvin's second over brings just four singles.14th over: New Zealand 57-4 (Satterthwaite 30, Browne 9)The ball is turning pretty sharply, aided of course by England flighting it so much. I won't say its ragging, lest someone put two and two together to make 74 and a helping of faux outrage. Nicola Browne looks in the mood for some bish-bosh, but she doesn't time a couple of big hits properly and there are just four singles from Marsh's over. New Zealand need at least 63 from six overs to give themselves a realistic chance. Quite the predicament they're in.\"I take offence at David Hopkins' assertion that Only Connect is nerdy,\" says Matt Dony. \"It is one of the main reasons I have a tv license, and I'm in no way nerdy. Matt Dony (Bespectacled, re-training as an accountant, ex-Mensan, Scott Walker fan).\" We should put an OBO team on there. Smyth, Bull, Selvey, maybe Naylor. What's the worst that could happen? Public humili-what?WICKET! New Zealand 57-5 (Satterthwaite c Gunn b Colvin 30) Satterthwaite dances down the track to Colvin and drives straight to long on, where Jenny Gunn takes a splendidly unobtrusive low catch. England are so good in the field.15th over: New Zealand 61-5 (Browne 10, Martin 2) Katey Martin is the new batsman/batswoman/batter. New Zealand are up a well-known creek, with paddles conspicuous by their absence.16th over: New Zealand 68-5 (Browne 13, Martin 6) A wide from Danni Hazell, only the third extra of the innings. Martin does well to get down on a nasty grubber. Maybe this pitch isn't as good as we thought. Seven from Hazell's over, none in boundaries; she ends with figures of 4-0-18-0.17th over: New Zealand 73-5 (Browne 15, Martin 9) New Zealand have struggled to hit boundaries: just five all innings, and at least two of these were off the edge. Colvin's final over goes for five, all in ones and twos. She ends with excellent figures of 4-0-15-2.\"Re: the third over, may I just say happy birthday to by twin brother Sam,\" says Tom Silverwood-Cope. Awww.18th over: New Zealand 83-5 (Browne 18, Martin 15) Anya Shrubsole starts her second spell with a front-foot no-ball. The resulting free hit is clubbed to long-on for just a single. Martin gets a boundary off the third legitimate deliver, walking across her stumps to ping a low full toss over short fine leg. That's an excellent stroke. Ten from the over, New Zealand's best of the innings.WICKET! New Zealand 83-6 (Browne c Greenway b Marsh 17) Browne smashes a full toss from Marsh to deep midwicket, where Greenway takes a very accomplished running catch above her head. She is the best fielder in the world, followed by daylight, and that was another example.WICKET! New Zealand 85-7 (Bermingham run out 1) More high-class fielding from England. The new batsman Erin Bermingham tries to steal a second to long leg, but she's beaten by a sharp throw from Wyatt and a clean take from Taylor.19th over: New Zealand 88-7 (Martin 18, Doolan 1)WICKET! New Zealand 91-8 (Martin st Taylor b Wyatt 19) Lovely bowling from Danni Wyatt, who pushes an arm ball straight past Martin's outside edge from around the wicket. Sarah Taylor does the rest.20th over: New Zealand 93-8 (Doolan 3, Nielsen 1) This has been an excellent performance from England, who need just 94 to make the final. See you in 10 minutes.INNINGS BREAK1st over: England 1-0 (target 94; Edwards 1, Marsh 0) There's a burgeoning sense that this could be a deceptively tricky target on a very dry pitch, with a few deliveries going through the top. New Zealand must take early wickets to get amongst the middle order, although they will be content with that first over from Nicola Browne \u2013 just one from it, with Charlotte Edwards twice beaten by lack of bounce outside off stump.2nd over: England 8-0 (target 94; Edwards 8, Marsh 0) Sian Ruck, the left-arm seamer, is going to share the new ball. That's a bit of a surprise; most assumed they would start with spin. Is it really 20 years since Dipak Patel opening the bowling in the World Cup? Crikey. Ruck is getting some nice inswing from around the wicket, but her fourth ball is too wide and Edwards cuts crisply for four. Laura Marsh hasn't faced a ball yet. Anyone out there? We haven't had a single sexist email today; it's quite refreshing.3rd over: England 12-0 (target 94; Edwards 12, Marsh 0) Edwards, on the pull, is beaten by a sharp bouncer from Browne. She responds with an imaginative lap over short fine leg for four.4th over: England 15-0 (target 94; Edwards 13, Marsh 2) Here comes the legspinner Erin Bermingham, the joint leading wicket-taker in the tournament before this game. Laura Marsh finally faces her first ball, surviving an optimistic LBW shout to a ball that pitched outside leg stump, and then she is beaten by a sharp lifter. Three singles from the over. This has been a decent start from New Zealand.5th over: England 22-0 (target 94; Edwards 14, Marsh 8) Marsh top edges a short ball from Browne not far short of deep square leg, and the ball spins past the fielder for four.\"4th over - 'his ball'?\" says Simon Blackwell. \"Isn't this a women's match?\" Oof, sorry. Habit is a powerful thing. I've changed it now.6th over: England 26-0 (target 94; Edwards 16, Marsh 10) Marsh tries to fetch the legspinner Bermingham from well outside off stump and drags the ball this far wide of leg stump. Edwards survives a huge LBW shout next ball, with a bottom edge onto the pad saving her. Bermingham looks a really good legspinner.7th over: England 32-0 (target 94; Edwards 21, Marsh 11) New Zealand have a phalanx of spinners too, and here comes the offspinner Lucy Doolan. Edwards drives her first ball over mid-on, with one hand coming off the bat, but there's enough on it to clear the infield and it runs away for four. Six from the over; England need 62 from 78 balls. Should.\"Rob, you say you are working from home, have you done something wrong in the office?\" says Rob Lee-Davey. \"Is this part of some kind of reintegration process?\" I didn't send those texts. They got nothin' on me.WICKET! England 32-1 (Marsh c Nielsen b Ruck 11) What a catch from Morna Nielsen! Marsh hammered the new bowler Ruck towards mid-off, where Nielsen swooped forward to take an outstanding two-handed catch a few inches off the floor. That brings Sarah Taylor, the world's best T20 batsman to the crease.8th over: England 34-1 (target 94; Edwards 22, Taylor 1) This is the key partnership, between the top two in the T20 batting rankings. If New Zealand can break it early they will still be in with a chance.9th over: England 40-1 (target 94; Edwards 27, Taylor 2) Taylor's record in Twenty20s this year is ridiculous \u2013 an average of 44 and a strike rate of 124. She gives Doolan the charge and hits a sweet lofted drive down the ground for four. That part of her game has development so much in the last few months. In fact it was Edwards who played that shot. So ignore all of the above. (Although Sarah Taylor is a superb straight hitter.)10th over: England 44-1 (target 94; Edwards 29, Taylor 4) Charlote Edwards survives a spandex-tight run-out referral after a dodgy single to midwicket off the new bowler, the left-arm spinner Nielsen. That could be a big moment in the game. Edwards would have been well out with a direct hit. Four from the over; England need 50 from the last ten.WICKET! England 53-2 (Edwards c Devine b Bermingham 33) This match is not over. New Zealand are into England's middle order after taking the vital wicket of Charlotte Edwards. She tried to cut Bermingham over backward point but didn't get enough of it and Sophie Devine took an excellent two-handed catch as she leapt backwards. It's been an eventful over, with five wides, a straight hit for four and now the wicket.11th over: England 55-2 (target 94; Taylor 5, Greenway 1) This is only Lydia Greenway's second innings of the tournament. She sweeps her first ball for a single.12th over: England 62-2 (target 94; Taylor 12, Greenway 1) Sarah Taylor hits the first six of the match, clouting a filthy full toss from Nielsen high over midwicket. New Zealand must get rid of Taylor in the next couple of overs if they are to have any chance.13th over: England 66-2 (target 94; Taylor 14, Greenway 3) New Zealand return to pace in the shape of Nicola Browne, whose final overs yields four singles. She ends with figures of 4-0-16-0. England are cruising now.14th over: England 72-2 (target 94; Taylor 17, Greenway 6) The offspinner Frances Mackay becomes the eighth slow bowler in this match. England are picking up singles far too easily against a deep-set field, with Greenway paddle-sweeping every delivery she faced in that over. Six singles from the over. England need 22 from 36 balls.15th over: England 74-2 (target 94; Taylor 18, Greenway 7) Taylor loops the new bowler Ruck this far short of Devine at backward point and is then beaten outside off. That's an excellent over from Ruck.16th over: England 82-2 (target 94; Taylor 19, Greenway 13) Sarah Taylor is stumped off a no-ball! Oh what a sorry shemozzle. Mackay beat Taylor completely with a ball speared towards the off side from around the wicket, but her back foot was over the return crease. Taylor can't take advantage of the consequent free hit. England are still cruising however, and Greenway continues her sweep-happy innings by cuffing a full toss round the corner for four.WICKET! England 93-3 (Greenway c Devine b Ruck 22) Greenway has played a sweep a ball; it's been an extraordinary innings. Now she's switched to the reverse sweep, and gets the seamer Ruck away for four, two and one. Then, with one needed, she falls to the reverse sweep, pinging it straight to point. She faced 19 deliveries for her 22 and I reckon she swept at least 13 of them.17.2 overs: England 94-3 (Taylor 21, Brindle 0). ENGLAND WIN BY SEVEN WICKETS The little genius hits the winning run, and England are into Sunday's final against New Zealand and West Indies. This means so much to them after the disappointment of 2010. Edwards screams with delight before walking on the field to embrace Taylor and Brindle. England weren't quite at their best today; they were, however, too good for New Zealand and ultimately this was a comfortable victory, by seven wickets and with 16 balls to spare. Thanks for your emails. See you tomorrow for Australia v West Indies.", "tags": ["England women's cricket team", "World Twenty20", "Women's cricket", "Over by over reports", "World Twenty20 2012"], "title": "England v New Zealand \u2013 as it happened | Rob Smyth"},{"date": "2013-02-17T08:52:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": " 10.11am GMT England have got the collective face on, and I suppose they will feel they threw this away. There is some truth in that, but the biggest factor was the outstanding batting of the captain Brendon McCullum (69 not out from 61 balls) and the injured Martin Guptill 27 not out from 27 balls). It was a fascinating match, which see-sawed constantly. See you on Wednesday for the second ODI. Night. 10.11am GMT Stuart Broad's first ball to McCullum is short. How many times? It's not the smartest bowling, this, and McCullum launches a pull over midwicket for six. He has savaged the short ball in this innings. A deliberately sliced four from Guptill brings the scores level, and he hits the winning runs with seven balls to spare! That's an excellent victory for New Zealand. 10.11am GMT Chris Woakes's first ball to McCullum is short. Can you guess what happens next? All the momentum is with New Zealand now. Guptill picks a slower ball and larrups it past point for four more, and he follows down with a scorchng straight hit to the boundary. Thirteen from the over, and that leaves New Zealand needing 13 from the last two overs. 10.11am GMT Another twist in this fascinating game, with Finn's final over going for 14. The injured Guptill makes just enough room to drive over extra cover for four \u2013 and he uppercuts the next ball for six! That was a wonderful stroke. 10.11am GMT Martin Guptill, who retired hurt early in the innings with a hamstring injury, is the new batsman. 10.11am GMT This is a crucial catch from Steven Finn. Ellis took on the short ball from Broad, which flew off the top edge to fine leg. Finn charged in, crouched forward, and although the ball burst through his hands he just managed to jam it in his arms as he hit the turf.  10.11am GMT McCullum pulls Finn high towards deep square leg, from where Trott charges in and just fails to reach the ball in time. It landed centimetres short and bounced up to hit Trott on the knee as he crouched down in an attempt to take the catch. A brilliant over from Finn \u2013 just three from it, and McCullum will be on strike at the start of the next over 10.11am GMT McCullum works Broad for two to reach a thrilling half-century from 48 balls; then Ellis gloves a pull over Buttler for four runs. Eight from the over, which keeps New Zealand on course. If McCullum is there at the end, they will win this game.\"I broke my PB for hours spent dozing on the sofa last night / this morning, nodding off around 11pm and waking up at a massive 0335 in the morning,\" says Andrew Stroud. \"Inexplicably I wasn\u2019t watching or listening to the cricket at the time either. Can anyone beat this?\" 10.11am GMT New Zealand play it safe in Swann's last over, milking six low-risk singles. Beautifully played. 10.11am GMT England continue to bowl short to McCullum, and McCullum continues to smash the ball to the fence. This time it's off Woakes, a scorching pull well in front of square, and he picks up four more later in the over by flicking a full toss through square leg.\"I must apologise for NZ for the music played tonight (the M*SH theme & then ZZ Top's 'Legs\"'while Guptill was having on-field treatment? really?),\" says Danielle Tolson. \"I still think it's unfair that Guptill will have to bat, runner-less. Why is it so cut & dried now. Now, Nathan McC's on, 'he ain't heavy, he's my brother'. Urgh.\" 10.11am GMT England needed that because Nathan McCullum was playing very well. New Zealand need 73 from 54 balls. 10.11am GMT Nathan McCullum skips down the track to drag the new bowler Swann over mid-on for a big six \u2013 but now he's gone LBW. It was given out on the field and, although Nathan McCullum reviewed it straight away, the third umpire upheld the decision. It hit him in line and would have hit the stumps, but there was some doubt as to whether there was an inside edge. The ball hit pad and inside edge almost simultaneously, but there was no clear evidence that it was bat first and therefore the original decision stands. McCullum looks aggrieved, and you can understand why, but equally I think that was the correct decision in accordance with DRS procedure. 10.11am GMT Brendon McCullum shapes to pull Finn and then aborts the shot, the first time he hasn't taken the short ball on in this innings. Nathan McCullum then makes to steer Finn behind point for four, a high-class stroke. New Zealand need 81 from the last 10 overs.\"Morning Smyth, morning everybody,\" says Josh Robinson. \"Somehow I forgot to manage to stay awake through the night for this one. I almost forgot to get up, too, but if the prospect of OBO humiliation wasn't enough to drag me out of bed after a few too many drinks and a particularly unpleasant train journey back from London, that of a 75-mile bike ride through Cambridgeshire and north Essex certainly did the trick. With that in mind, I may just not be seeing this one through to its conclusion.\" 10.11am GMT The first three balls of Anderson's over have just disappeared for 14. Brendon McCullum swivel-pulls gloriously for six, bottom-edges between Buttler's legs for four and then smashes another pull for four. Seventeen from the over in total.\"Just got round to breakfast,\" says John Starbuck. \"Pikelets with apricot jam and coffee. What's yours?\" Delirium and cravings. 10.11am GMT New Zealand need 104 from 72 balls. In short, they need a Brendon McCullum special. 10.11am GMT England continue to pick up wickets at important times. Franklin tries to pull a short ball from Finn and gloves it down the leg side to Buttler. 10.11am GMT Emails please! 10.11am GMT Anderson comes back on for Swann, who never bowls in the Powerplay. He bowls four consecutive dot balls to Franklin, which pushes the required rate above eight an over. 10.11am GMT New Zealand have to take their batting Powerplay now. McCullum pulls the second ball from Finn round the corner, with the sliding Root doing well to save a couple of runs. McCullum nails the stroke later in the over, pulling a storming flat six. 10.11am GMT The game has changed completely in the last 30 minutes. Two runs from Swann's over, which means New Zealand need 115 from 90 balls. 10.11am GMT Superb fielding from Ian Bell and Chris Woakes gives England the big wicket of Kane Williamson. McCullum pushed Woakes towards mid-on, at which point Williamson set off. He was sent back and was fractionally short of his ground when Bell threw the ball in for Woakes to break the stumps. It was great work from Woakes because he was in front of the stumps, with his weight going the wrong way, but he managed to swing his hands round to break the stumps with Williamson not quite back in his crease. I don't think Williamson realised he was in quite so much trouble, as there was no dive and he seemed fairly relaxed before the third umpire's verdict appeared on the big screen. 10.11am GMT Swann is back on, presumably an attempt to play on McCullum's ego and need to dominate. He gets away with a disgusting reverse sweep, somehow toe-ending it over the man at cover. And then Williamson is dropped! He savaged a rank short ball towards midwicket, and Anderson couldn't hang on as he moved to his right. It would have been a blinder. He had it in his grasp for a couple of seconds before it slipped out. Anderson is livid. 10.11am GMT Williamson pulls Woakes for three, with Joe Root sliding round the boundary to save a run, and then edges one a fraction short of the keeper Buttler. 10.11am GMT McCullum, attempting to turn Broad to leg, gets a leading edge that falls not far short of the bowler. A good over is ruined by a poor last delivery that McCullum flicks off the pads and through midwicket for four. 10.11am GMT Brendon McCullum, the new batsman, misses an attempted hook at Woakes. The next few overs are so important. If England get McCullum early they will on top. 10.11am GMT Chris Woakes strikes with the second ball of a new spell. Elliott threw everything at a wide, full delivery and thick-edged it straight to Morgan at backward point. England are back in the match. 10.11am GMT Williamson skids back in his crease to force Broad through the covers for four. He plays that shot nicely, with a really high elbow. It's easy to see what all the fuss is about with this lad. Broad ends the over with a superb short ball that smashes into Elliott's grille. 10.11am GMT Anderson's second spell hasn't been as good as the first, with a poor delivery to Williamson slipping away for four leg byes. He does find Elliott's edge later in the over, with the ball flying safely for a single. New Zealand are cruising at the moment. 10.11am GMT Broad has switched ends to replace Swann, a good move at a time when England need a wicket. This has been a busy partnership between Williamson and Elliott, particularly in their running. There's not much in this game but you feel New Zealand have this chase under control at the moment. 10.11am GMT \"Your night caller was probably one of those dodgy types, with a tale about needing some cash for a taxi 'cos the car's broken down and the spouse/children have been suddenly taken ill,\" says John Starbuck. \"Just their luck to try it out on a cricket obsessive \u2013 overseas cricket, the reality scam defender. Could you work cricket into a scam tale, though?\"  10.11am GMT Elliott drives Swann against the spin, up and over extra cover for four. That's a lovely stroke. It might be time to give Swann a break, as he's being played pretty easily. 10.11am GMT Stuart Broad replaces Chris Woakes, an aggressive move from Alastair Cook at a time when a wicket, particularly that of Williamson, would put England slightly on top. There's a half shout for LBW against Williamson; he walked across his stumps a bit but it would have missed leg. Williamson steers a single to reach a classy half-century from 70 balls. This is his first ODI against England, and he looks like a proper player. 10.11am GMT New Zealand have milked Swann pretty well thus far. Six singles from that over, and 29 runs from his five overs. 10.11am GMT Woakes's figures: 5-0-18-1. 10.11am GMT Almost another wicket for England. A gorgeous off break from Swann takes the inside edge of Elliott's bat and flies this far wide of leg stump for four. Elliott survives a biggish LBW shout two balls later; it turned too much and Hawkeye showed it would only have trimmed the bails, so the original decision would have stood even if England had reviewed it. 10.11am GMT The new batsman is not Brendon McCullum, as expected, but Grant Elliott. 10.11am GMT This is an important breakthrough, both for Chris Woakes and England. Taylor threw everything at a rare short ball from Woakes and top edged it high to fine leg, where Finn took a good catch. 10.11am GMT Taylor drags a sweep past short fine leg for four off the bowling of Swann. New Zealand have accelerated very well in the last half an hour. They need 187 from 186 balls. 10.11am GMT Three from Woakes's over. England need a wicket. 10.11am GMT This is a high-class stroke from Taylor, a late cut for four off Swann that beats short third man. He is starting to look good.\"Good morning, Rob,\" says Sara Torvalds. \"When do you hink NZ should get worried about the run rate? What with the women's World Cup I find I've lost any sense of what's a reasonable scoring rate... Or possibly I'm just tired, in which case you are obviously the right man to turn to for advice... (How's that breakdown coming along?)\" I reckon they are fine until the REDRUM goes above seven an over. Although of course it also depends how many wickets are down. They have some punishing hitters in this side, particularly these two and Brendon McCullum. 10.11am GMT Taylor gets his first boundary from his 26th delivery with a flashing back cut off Woakes. England will want to keep him out of form for as long as possible, such is his potential destructiveness. At some stage in this series or the Test series he will punish England.\"My wife has asked me to correct my earlier statement about a relaxing few beers whilst watching cricket,\" says Alasdair. \"This is a half truth at best. I am trying to have a beer and watch the cricket, however my three-year-old son has decided that he'd rather clamber all over me and request drinks of my beer (which he doesn't get). He'll be in bed in time for me to watch NZ flounder in its run chase.\" 10.11am GMT Here's Graeme Swann, bowling in an ODI for the first time since August, and a good first over goes for a single. Apologies for the less than award-winning nature of this OBO, by the way; I'm completely shot. I'll shove my head under a tap during the upcoming drinks break.\"Re: Lord Selve's comment, surely a simple rule banning bowling having had a runner will suffice,\" says John Leavey. \"A classic example of sports administrators not thinking things through. Surely there is a place for non-ex-players in these decision making bodies \u2013 more logical and devious minds used to long term thinking? Am open to offers\" 10.11am GMT It's time for Chris Woakes, who is a pretty good fourth seamer to have. He replaces Broad, who bowled a sharp spell of 3-0-10-0. The birds have started singing outside. It's a new day; when did that happen? It still feels like 3am. Woakes's first over yields a couple of singles. Taylor, still playing carefully, has five from 23 balls. 10.11am GMT Finn beats Williamson with a wonderful lifter that holds its line just outside off stump, but the next ball is too straight and touched fine for four. It's hard to know who's on top here. Maybe New Zealand by a whisker. 10.11am GMT A vigorous short ball from Broad is avoided by Taylor, who is taking as long as possible to play himself in against some challenging bowling. He has four from 18 balls.\"I'm pretty sure the clampdown on runners came in the aftermath of a South Africa game in which Dale Steyn batted with a runner, then took the new ball and with it wickets,\" writes Mike Selvey, our man at the ground. 10.11am GMT Finn changes ends to replace the excellent Anderson, and it's another quiet over. The required rate is almost up to a run a ball, although New Zealand won't worry about that for now. 10.11am GMT This isn't far from Test cricket in coloured clothing, with lots of leaves and defensive strokes. Two from Broad's over.\"If this is your Sunday morning, did you have a Saturday night?\" says Danielle Tolson. \"I ask this from NZ, where it is now officially wine o'clock in the sun on Sunday evening. Also, can you remind me of the rationale to do away with runners for injured players?\"My Saturday evening involves two hours' sleep and another two hours failing to get back to sleep. As for the runners, it does seem unfair. The rationale is that the system was being abused; contrary to what Ian Healy said to Arjuna Ranatunga, you basically were allowed a runner for being fat. There must be a better balance than this, though. 10.11am GMT Apparently Guptill will bat later if required. That may well be the case; this has the feel of a close contest. Another excellent over from Anderson goes for a couple. His figures are 5-1-9-1. 10.11am GMT Stuart Broad comes into the attack in place of Finn. Williamson, beaten for pace, top-edges a pull over the keeper's head for a one-bounce four. A number of batsmen have been done for pace by the short ball today.\"I have much sympathy for your night-owl predicament,\" says Andrew Benton. \"But spare a thought for those of us in China who are working this weekend because, in order to get seven days off work in a row for Spring Festival, this\u00a0weekend got moved to Thursday and Friday. It's not so bad when the worked weekend is before the holiday, but its horrible when it's after. Not that anyone's actually thaaaat busy.....it is Sunday, after all.\" 10.11am GMT Ross Taylor was in poor nick during the T20 series, but he's such a dangerous player and this format will allow him a bit of time to build an innings. Four from Anderson's over.\"Did your doorbell-botherer disappear?\" asks Nick Wiltsher. Yep, only rang once. I win. Again. 10.11am GMT Williamson forces Finn off the back foot for four, a really good stroke. It was his back-foot drive earlier in the innings, not Guptill's, and it's a shot he plays with some style. He drives four more off the last ball of the over, down the ground this time. Shot!Guptill concedes defeat at the end of the over, retiring hurt with what looks like a hamstring injury. Ross Taylor is the new batsman. 10.11am GMT Guptill is going to continue, which is a surprise. Anderson completes another fine over; he has figures of 3-1-3-1. 10.11am GMT Guptill takes a quick single off Anderson and pulls something, probably a hamstring. That's a big problem, with no runners allowed these days. The physio is coming on.\"In response to James Walsh (2nd over), I work with an Indian guy here in Jakarta,\" says John Leavey. \"Over a beer the other night he asked 'Do you guys still play cricket?' I put him right, illustrating with recent examples, and he didn't give a flying one about the fate of the Indian team. An Indian not interested in cricket? Weird.\" 10.11am GMT Guptill gets the first boundary with a wonderful back-foot drive off Finn, who then bowls a leg-side wide. That's all folks.\"I remote-taught a programming course online recently,\" says Jim Denvir. \"I was in New York; the attendees were in Singapore and Tokyo, so I was teaching from 9pm to 4:30am each day. It's probably not unlike doing this OBO; not being able to see your audience and working at completely the wrong time of day. The worst session was the one after 'lunch'. I got my energy back during the afternoon break, to the extent that I couldn't sleep during the day that followed. By the end of the week I was so knackered I actually fell down the stairs, which is really embarrassing given that I was stone cold sober.\" I don't mind the Test matches, when it's five days in a row. The problem with this is that it's one day on, two off, one on, two off, and repeat until you mislay your final marble. 10.11am GMT Anderson is bowling a lovely length, just full of good. It's like a Test match at the moment, with Williamson content to defend a maiden. 10.11am GMT A sharp first over from Steven Finn brings just a single for Guptill. This has been a fine start from England.\"Met a couple of New Zealanders earlier at the fancy craft beer place in Islington,\" writes my colleague James Walsh. \"'Looking forward to the ODIs?' I asked. 'To be honest cricket's worse than watching paint dry' came the reply. Have any of your other readers experienced equally underwhelming encounters with Antipodeans recently? I don't even know what to believe any more.\" You definitely need a new chat-up line. 10.11am GMT Actually, that delivery from Anderson didn't take the inside edge \u2013 it came right back through the gate as Watling leaned into the drive. A jaffa. Ten years ago he showed thrilling promise in the VB Series in Australia; it took a while, but boy has he fulfilled that promise.\"Cricket and\u00a0bronchitis have a lot to answer for,\" writes Jo Beasley. \"I've never been awake this early on a Sunday morning, ever. Whilst failing to avoid gender stereotyping, I have to say that as a girl I cry at everything. I have to avoid D.I.Y. S.O.S. entirely if I want my mascara to stay intact.\" 10.11am GMT Jimmy Anderson becomes England's highest wickettaker in international cricket. BJ Watling is his 529th victim, cleaned up by a fine delivery: full and moving back just enough to take the inside edge before ricocheting into middle stump. 10.11am GMT INNINGS BREAK 10.11am GMT Swann hits the first two balls of the final over for four before holing out to deep midwicket, where Ross Taylor takes a fine low catch. England lost their last eight wickets for 74 but that's still not a bad total, especially if the ball swings under lights as it did in the T20 match. New Zealand are probably slight favourites; they need 259 to win the match. See you in half an hour, if I can stay awake. 10.11am GMT McClenaghan is struggling with a side injury and has to leave the field halfway through his final over. That will probably rule him out of the rest of the series, which is a blow for New Zealand as he given England the hurry-up in the last week. He finishes with figures of 9.4-0-56-4, and Kane Williamson bowls the last two balls of the penultimate over. 10.11am GMT McClenaghan gets his fourth wicket. Finn, beaten for pace, pulls high in the air to Guptill, running in from deep square leg. England have lost seven wickets for 64. 10.11am GMT \"Isn't it refreshing,\" says Tom Briggs, \"that for all the modern coaching methods and preparation that England can still manage a good old fashioned collapse?\" Nobody does it better. Makes me feel sad for the rest, with their \"partnerships\" and \"lower-order batting\". 10.11am GMT Woakes pulls consecutive balls from Ellis for four but falls to the next delivery, beautifully caught by Brendon McCullum. He had started to move down the leg side and then dived full length in the opposite direction to claim the edge one-handed. 10.11am GMT Swann pings an attempted yorker from McClenaghan over mid-off for four.\"Lovely late afternoon here in Auckland,\" says Alastair. \"Drinking a few ales watching cricket. Fantastic.\" 10.11am GMT Broad dies by the sword he used to kill New Zealand in the final T20 international \u2013 beaten for pace by a short ball and top-edging a hook straight up in the air. England have lost five for 44 in eight overs. 10.11am GMT A very fine shot from Woakes, who drives Ellis handsomely over mid-off for a one-bounce four. Six from the over. 10.11am GMT Broad can't pierce the field with a couple of nice drives on the up. England need to sneak up to around 260. \"How low on the alcohol totem pole is Justerini & Brooks whisky?\" says Alex McGillivray. I have no idea what you are on about but thanks for the email, without which I'd be fast asleep in a pool of my own drool. 10.11am GMT Now Root has gone, bowled by Franklin. He ran down the track and aimed a big hack to leg that met only with fresh air. A slightly ugly end to a calm, classy innings of 56 from 63 balls. 10.11am GMT Chris Woakes is a useful batsman, although he's not in Samit Patel's class and there's a danger England might lose their way. 10.11am GMT Devastating stuff from Buttler, who slams a short ball from McClenaghan miles over long-on for a 92-metre six. There is every chance that, in 10 years' time, we will consider Jos Buttler the greatest death-hitter England have ever had. And of course, the moment I type that he is dismissed, toe-ending a full toss straight to extra cover. It was a useful innings though: 21 from 13 balls with two awesome sixes. 10.11am GMT Root shapes to ramp Mills, who aborts his delivery as a result. Seven from Mills' final over, so he ends a fine spell with figures of 10-2-32-2.\"Ali Brown is definitely the best England player of recent years to play ODI and not a Test,\" says Nicholas Ladner, \"but he didn't do too well with the chances he was given: 'If Brown had appeared on a one-wheeled bike, wearing a silly hat and a red nose, and thrown custard pies at the umpires, he would scarcely have struck a more ridiculous figure than he did yesterday.' More mischievously, how about one of Vince Wells, Matthew Fleming or Jamie Dalrymple? Ryan ten Doeschate might be a better shout, or Steve Tikolo (or is that cheating?)\"What's wrong with Jazzer Fleming?! If he had played in the 1999 World Cup England would at least have avoided humiliation. And if that's not the mark of a great player then I don't know what is. 10.11am GMT A quick single takes Root to an assured half-century, from 57 balls with four fours. What a thoroughly impressive man. You could take him home to mother. You could say the same about Jos Buttler. After a couple of sighters, he drills Ellis effortlessly over long-off for six. He really is an extraordinary talent.\"Ever since getting engaged, I often watch \"Say Yes To The Dress\" and cry when someone finds their dress,,\" says Suzy McAnanama. \"It's extremely embarrassing because most of my friends can't remember the last time they saw me in a dress, forget about crying about one that some random person on TV picks out.\" 10.11am GMT The new batsman is Jos Buttler, who should get a decent run in the side now. He is England's 27th ODI wicketkeeper. The prize for anyone who can name all 27 is a restraining order. He gets off the mark from his fourth ball with a couple to third man. 10.11am GMT Gah! Eoin Morgan has gone cheaply, cutting Mills to backward point, where Martin Guptill took an excellent low catch to his left. That's a huge breakthrough for New Zealand, who are now only one wicket away from England's lower order. 10.11am GMT Root waits for a slower bouncer from Ellis and hammers it behind square leg for four. Six from the over. England will probably want eight an over from the last 10.\"It's not the question you asked but Mark Butcher is surely the best modern-era English Test player never to play one day international cricket,\" says Will Symonds. \"It's hard to think of any one day stars who haven't found their way into a Test side, even Dermot Reeve played a Test or two I think.\" He did indeed, three in NZ in 1991-92. Have a look at his innings on the first day of this match. There are plenty of great ODI players who haven't played many Tests, with Michael Bevan top of the list, but it's hard to think of great ODI players who haven't played any Tests. Ian Harvey might be the best. 10.11am GMT \"Re: crying, I believe I cried a little \u2013 my eyes became extremely wet, extremely quickly, I'm certain of that much \u2013 at some point during Yeovil Town's 5-2 win over Nottingham Forest in a third division semi-final play-off second leg. I am not a Yeovil fan.\" I remember watching that match with my then housemate, who also was not a Yeovil fan. His coupon was the most perfect, comical study in confused, inebriated despair. 10.11am GMT Trott, making room to flat-bat Mills through the off side, drags the ball back onto the stumps. He goes for a decent innings of 68 from 90 balls. That might be a blessing in disguise for England, as it brings Eoin Morgan to the crease. 10.11am GMT Root gets down on one knee to ramp McClenaghan over the keeper's head for four, and then flicks four more over short fine leg. England have paced this innings pretty well.\"Feeling your pain (to a slightly lesser extent), stuck in the office on a sunny Sydney Sunday afternoon,\" says Dan Silburn. \"Cricket on the telly and the MBM keeping me sane though! I\u2019ve been very impressed with Root, he was being shuffled up and down the order during the Indian ODIs, often mid-game, and it didn\u2019t seem to faze him. He\u2019s offered fantastic support to Trott today, who\u2019s looked a different player since he came to the crease.\" Yeah, his temperament looks outstanding. He plays with the assurance of somebody 10 years older. 10.11am GMT \"I totally fell in love with someone for her tweeting (in Hebrew) 'I'm not crying cause it's that time of the month. I'm crying cause I just saw the last episode of The Thick of It',\" says Phil Podolsky. \"Hardly anyone knew what she was talking about as it wasn't shown over here; but to me it was the last piece in the puzzle of her fascinating, anonymous Twitter persona, defined by a very feline laziness and jaded irony.\u00a0Have no idea what she looks like\u00a0(only that she has a bf), but if her vulnerability is triggered by Malcolm Tucker \u2013 wow, just wow.\" 10.11am GMT DRS comes to Joe Root's rescue. He was given out caught behind off a good short ball from Kyle Mills that seemed to take the glove, but he reviewed the decision with the certainty of a man who had not hit it. Replays showed the ball hit the sleeve rather than the glove. 10.11am GMT Four singles from McClenaghan's over, the first of the Powerplay. The Powerplays are a complete irrelevance now. These regulations definitely need a tweak, although I'm not entirely sure what that should be.\"How long do you think it'll be before we have England greats who never play Test cricket?\" says Michael Jelley. \"Might Hales be the first to be a top class opener in T20 (and eventually perhaps ODI), but never be trusted in Tests? Or will class always win out in the end?\"That's a great question. I suppose it could happen with this generation, perhaps Jos Buttler or Hales. Then again, the best short-form player usually get at least a few Tests to see if their talent is transferable \u2013 and those opportunities will increase as squad rotation becomes the norm. All of which invites the question: who is the best one-day player never to have played Test cricket? 10.11am GMT Six singles from Nathan McCullum's final over. He ends with figures of 10-0-43-0. England must take their batting Powerplay now.\"Apart from the usual England penalty shoot out defeats, the last time I cried was when Flintoff ran out Ponting in 2009,\" says Andy Dennett. \"Not sure that counts tho, as they were tears of laughter!\" 10.11am GMT Mitchell McClenaghan comes back into the attack, starting around the wicket to the right-handers. Trott makes room to flat-bat a couple through the covers, a shot that has served him well today. What a fascinating player he is. He batted like a village duffer for an hour and a half yet he may well end up with a century. His last 28 runs have come from 18 balls.\"Nothing like waking up at 2.36 on a Sunday morning to find Bell out on the charge for 64, headphones and an empty can lying on the floor,\" says Simon McMahon. \"The saddest song in movie history? It's a no-brainer. 'When She Loved Me', the song by Sarah MacLachlan about Jessie from Toy Story 2. Absolutely devastating. Does it every time.\" Oh metrosexuality, so much to answer for. 10.11am GMT \"Black Caps fan following your MBM at a ski lodge here in California,\" says Patrick Doherty. \"Cheers for the updates!\" I would say it's a pleasure, but that would be stretching the truth at 3am on a Sunday morning. 10.11am GMT Grant Elliott comes on to bowl some dibbly-dobbly-wobbly. An otherwise decent over is ruined by the last ball, a slower full toss that is pulled for four by Trott. That takes him to the usual half-century, from 74 balls and with four fours. He was laboured for a long time, but his last 23 runs have come off only 14 balls. 10.11am GMT There's something very impressive about the way Root makes himself at home the moment he arrives at the crease, regardless of the match situation. He picks up his second boundary with a classy, fast-handed cover drive off Williamson, and has moved busily to 19 rom 22 balls. 10.11am GMT Consecutive boundaries for Trott off Franklin, with an on-the-walk cut followed by a flick off the hip. Eleven from the over, an excellent one for England 10.11am GMT Kane Williamson comes on to bowl some part-time off spin. Five singles from the over. Anyone still out there? 10.11am GMT Trott gets his second boundary, waiting for a slower ball from Franklin before cross-batting it wide of extra cover. Then he flicks off the hip and just wide of Taylor at midwicket. England are just about on course for a par score of around 270. 10.11am GMT Trott hit his first ball for four but hasn't found the boundary in 59 balls since. He needs to be careful not to put too much pressure on Root. I certainly don't think he has misjudged the pitch or is batting selfishly; he's just out of nick. But he will have to hit out or get out at some stage. 10.11am GMT A good bouncer from Franklin clangs off Trott's helmet for four leg byes. Trott is still struggling to time the ball.\"Re: Rai Skrupskis: there's nothing pathetic about crying over Leicester City \u2013 it's the sign of a real man,\" says Michael Jelley. \"The best part of being a Leicester fan is that only we know how good Emile Heskey was \u2013 and (fao sceptics) I'm not remotely joking. I have, however, been on the cognac.\" 10.11am GMT English cricket really loves Joe Root right now. He opens the face to slice his first ball, from McCullum, wide of short third man for four. 10.11am GMT \"Teary confessions,\" says Ian Truman. \"This is an easy one... The Seth and Summer Spiderman scene from the OC. Or an Ian Bell batting highlights compilation.\"If you didn't cry at this scene, you're not human. 10.11am GMT This is an important wicket for New Zealand. Bell, on the charge again, throws the bat at a wide one from James Franklin and snicks it through to the keeper McCullum. A soft end to an excellent innings: 64 from 79 balls, with six fours and two sixes. 10.11am GMT Bell is playing quite beautifully here. He walks down the track to McCullum and chips another confident boundary, this time to long-off. Eight from the over. When he plays like this you wonder why he hasn't been England's ODI Mark Waugh for the last five years.\"Remembering England playing Tests in the nineties can occasions move me to years,\" says John Doyle. I reckon England's 1990s Test team has an unfair reputation \u2013 certainly compared to the 1980s team. Mainly because, as Scyld Berry pointed out, of their respective records against Australia. England gave everybody else a game in the 1990s, certainly at home. I wonder how good they'd have been with central contracts and consistency of selection. 10.11am GMT \"I wonder whether you think that having the ODIs sandwiched between the T20s and Tests will have an effect on the rhythm of the ODIs (and more importantly, the Tests),\" says Olly Bevan. \"I agree that having eight ODIs after a two-Test series is absurd, but does the structure used in NZ allow for a ramping up to Test cricket, or does it blur some lines of technique and patience that are otherwise untouched? This seems to be a particular problem for the England side given that the T20s are basically entirely separate, with a different captain and markedly different personnel, whereas the ODIs are much closer to the Test set-up.\"Player seem pretty adaptable these days, sometimes even within the same format (see AB de Villiers' amazing pair of innings in the Tests in Australia), so I don't think it will change too much. Building up to the Tests this way does seem to make sense, although I quite like the idea of ODIs, Tests and then T20s as a breezy afterparty. ODIs before Tests is the golden rule, though. ODIs are pants and Tests are socks. (Link contains adult language, blah blah.) 10.11am GMT Trott is all over the place. He is beaten outside off stump by McCullum and then top-edges another sweep, this time just over short fine leg.\"Pathetic things to cry about,\" says Rai Skrupskis. \"Leicester City. Since the 1961 FA Cup Final.\" 10.11am GMT Bell, on the walk, pulls Ellis sharply round the corner for four \u2013 and then reaches his fifty with an elegant chip over long-on for six. That was a delicious stroke.\"Other than onions, women, death and the 1987 FA Cup final not a lot makes me weep,\" says Stephen Wolstencroft. \"I am ashamed to admit, however, that I cried at the end of Dead Poets' Society. I may also cry tomorrow when I sober up and realise I've confessed to this in writing...\" 10.11am GMT Trott is batting like a man who hasn't introduced willow to leather in a competitive match since December, and he top-edges a sweep off McCullum dangerously close to the man at short fine leg. He has 18 from 37 balls, Bell 42 from 64.\"I confess, I feel I can as all your readers are drunk or sleep deprived so will remember little, to shedding tears at children's movies,\" says Phil Withall. \"Not even sad ones. My kids mock me for it. Wreck it Ralph was shameful as my eldest called out 'Crying yet, Dad?' in a crowded cinema. I wasn't, honest...\" It was just raining on your face? 10.11am GMT My doorbell has just rung. Who the hell could it be at this hour? It's either a booty call, which I'd have to reject anyway due to my unyielding professionalism, or somebody drunk looking for a full and frank exchange of views and fists. I'll ignore it. Play has resumed after the drinks break, with Trott edging an on-the-walk slap off Ellis to third man for a single. Bell then drags one in the air but well wide of midwicket. 10.11am GMT Trott has been relatively becalmed since hitting his first ball for four, with only nine from 32 deliveries since then. Time for drinks. 10.11am GMT \"Sorry to look through this series and the next to the Ashes, but Pietersen for Morgan, Prior for Buttler, and Compton for Woakes \u2013 is this the side to face the Aussies on 10 July?\" says Steven Larcombe. \"And will it be Compton?\"You would think that, fitness permitting, there are nine near-certainties in Cook, Trott, Pietersen, Bell, Prior, Broad, Swann, Finn and Anderson. Then it depends whether Root opens or bats No6, provided he doesn't have a shocker in the upcoming Test series. But things change so quickly. If you had picked an England team six months before the 2005 Ashes it wouldn't have had Pietersen in it. 10.11am GMT Bell, sent back by Trott, survives a token run-out referral.\"I'm not someone who cries \u2013 especially not at films,\" writes Leo Watkins. \"Toy Story 3 had me crying my eyes out, though. But as anyone who has seen it knows, it's a magnificent piece of storytelling, so maybe it's excusable (here's Mark Kermode welling up just talking about it). The ending of Gladiator, on the other hand, I am genuinely ashamed at having wept at.\" 10.11am GMT Bell pulls Ellis for a flat six, just over the leaping McClenaghan at deep backward square. A kid sitting just behind him, in front of the boundary boards, showed New Zealand's fielders how to do it with a beautiful diving catch. 10.11am GMT The offspinner Nathan McCullum replaces Kyle Mills, who bowled a fine spell of 6-2-14-0, and he has Bell dropped in his first over. Bell fetched a slog-sweep from well outside off stump, which meant he couldn't control the shot, and it went high in the air towards midwicket. BJ Watling charged in, slid forward and put down a difficult chance.\"That team from 91-92 bats a bit deep doesn't it?\" says Guy Hornsby. \"And Derek \"barrel-chested\" Pringle's figures are sensational. 6 overs, 11 runs and 2 wickets. They don't make 'em like that any more. Glorious days. Samit must look at him and think he was born 22 years late.\" 10.11am GMT Trott flicks Ellis behind square for a couple. It's all pretty sedate at the moment. You do wonder whether the recent rule changes might need a tweak.\"So, do we find you cranky as it's a personal best early rise so you are sleep deprived,\" says Robert Wilson-Fry, \"or cranky because you've left Bull et al in Madam Flexible's emporium of the damned?\"I thought I was quite chipper. You want franky, come back at 7am. By then I'll either be murderous or in the throes of a storming nervous breakdown. 10.11am GMT \"Just watched Scorsese's 'Hugo',\" says Mac Millings. \"I cried. A lot. Mind you, this is coming from a man who has been known to cry at TV ads. This isn't some sort of 'comic' invention; 30-second films whose sole purpose is to sell me stuff have made me weep. What are the most pathetic things, I wonder, that your ones of readers have ever cried at?\" 10.11am GMT McClenaghan is replaced by Andrew Ellis, a right-arm seamer who made his international debut a year ago, just before his 30th birthday. Bell, on the walk, misses a hook at a sharp short ball \u2013 and then there's a run-out chance for Taylor. Bell pushed the ball towards mid-on and set off for a dodgy single, but Taylor, running round midwicket, couldn't pick up and throw at the stumps in one movement. Had he done so he was close enough to the stumps that he wouldn't probably have hit.\"Good to see the readership as bladdered as I intend to get shortly,\" says Seamus Devlin. \"Tis a touch tricky as I am going out with the male half of some new friends. He's a doctor and asked me 'for a beer'. As I have absolutely no brakes when it comes to the demon drink I suspect my definition of 'a beer' and his are quite different. Hope to read the result later if I am not otherwise detained by the local constabulary.\" 10.11am GMT Mills jags a good one back to hit Trott on the elbow, with the ball ricocheting this far wide of the off stump. Trott is beaten again later in the over, although rather worryingly I've already forgotten what exactly happened. An excellent maiden from Mills, who has figures of 5-2-12-0.\"My god, man,\" says Stephen Wolstencroft \"Do they never let you sleep? In the week that's seen the Pope quit, aliens land in Russia disguised as a meteor crash, and the revelation that we've all been eating donkeys or people or something, you've been chained to the internet drip feeding sport to online loners like me for what seems like 100 hours straight. Have a heart, Guardian, release the man to spend a few last hours with his loved ones/Rothmans & Wisden collection before the world gets even worse.\"You jest, but if the world was ending in a few hours' time I'd be straight on Statsguru, searching for one last statgasm. Am I wrong? 10.11am GMT The Problem has started confidently. When McClenaghan swings one onto the pads, he flicks it up and over square leg for four. He gets another boundary with a controlled pull behind square. Bell has been in fine form in ODI cricket since he moved up the order last summer; he needs to continue that form with the likes of Kevin Pietersen and Alex Hales around. 10.11am GMT Bell wanders jauntily down the track to chip Mills over mid-on for four. When he is playing well he must be so intimidating to bowl to, because he makes shots like that look so easy.\"Morning Rob, morning everybody (all three of you),\" says Guy Hornsby. \"I feel your pain Mr S. I'm in the worst of most worlds here too. Unlikely the gloriously inebriated Mr Sawyer, I can't even drink at the moment due to lung shenanigans and heavy steroids. I'm juiced up like Lance. Minus the bikes. Still, I've won as many Tours de France as him. Honk. I foresee a Cook ton and ten-run win tonight. I guess I'll know when I wake up.\"A Cook ton? Get to a hospital. You're sick as a dog man! 10.11am GMT It's been a slow start from England's batsmen, but that's the way of it in 50-over cricket in 2013. And New Zealand have bowled pretty well with the new balls. McClenaghan has a strangled LBW shout against Bell \u2013 it was too high \u2013 and then Trott digs out a yorker.\"Here's a link to Mitchell McClenaghan's video as CLEO bachelor of the year candidate,\" purrs Danielle Tolson. 10.11am GMT The last time England won an ODI series in New Zealand was in 1991-92, when England had their greatest one-day side.\"Pillow, duvet, sofa, Spitfire ale, cricket,\" says Les Smith. \"Happy man.\" You're listening to Sparklehorse? 10.11am GMT Trott, whose last innings was the century in the final Test in India, times his first ball supremely through midwicket for four.\"My thoughts on staying up til 1am having been up since 7am this morning \u2013 is there enough wine left?\" says Mark Peachey. \"And is it a cunning plan by the England team to have their kit blend into the wickets Predator-style to discombobulate the umpires?\" 10.11am GMT Alastair Cook has been cleaned up by Mitchell McClenaghan. It was a bit of a strange dismissal: he pushed defensively down the wrong line, even though the ball didn't do much, and was bowled off the pad. I think he was also stuck on the crease when he should have been forward, although we haven't seen a replay yet. 10.11am GMT There's no sign of swing, and once England get their eye in these should be good batting conditions. Cook miscuts a short ball from Mills that falls short of Williamson at point, and gets off the mark next ball by leaning into a wide half-volley and timing it for four. Mills has a big shout for LBW turned down later in the over \u2013 Mills was very confident, but it looked too high and Brendon McCullum decides not to risk New Zealand's only review.\"The Beard Liberation Front says England's clean shaven ODI team may struggle batting first against New Zealand,\" says Keith Flett. \"Organiser Keith Flett said, they'll miss Priory's beard.\" 10.11am GMT The lively Mitchell McClenaghan starts from the other end. He's a not inconsiderable unit, although I'm pretty sure I could take him. The first runs of the day come from the last delivery of the over, a decisive slap through the covers for four.\"Ian 'The Problem' Bell is going to get a hundred,\" says Simon McMahon. I like the idea of players having darts-style nicknames, especially rubbish ones, to sex down ODIs. James 'Credit to the Bald Community' Tredwell. Alastair 'Remorseless on the Square Cut But Vulnerable To The Full Inswinger Early In His Innings' Cook. 10.11am GMT This is the same pitch that was used for the second T20, when England were trounced in the comedy style. The personnel are different on both sides, with the experienced Kyle Mills opening the bowling to Alastair Cook and Ian Bell. Mills, who has a wonderful ODI record, starts with a maiden to Cook.\"Evening/morning Rob,\" says Phil Sawyer. \"Looking forward to catching at least some of this match. Unfortunately, I am a tad tipsy. That's a tad tipsy in the 'been on the vodka and gingers all night' sense, so my grasp on events is somewhat limited. So just remind me how many goals England need to score, which way round the board the players go, and when they can play their joker and I'll be bang up to speed.\"This is disgraceful. Not only do the Guardian puts a cricket novice on the OBO, but now even the readers don't know what's going on! 10.11am GMT England are second, New Zealand eighth, but New Zealand had an extremely good 2-1 win in South Africa last month.\u00a0 10.11am GMT Tell me what you think about me. I buy my own diamonds and I buy my own rings. Only ring your cell-y when I'm feelin' lonely. When it's all over please get up and leave.To what extent should you modify your eating habits during these Antipodean tours? Is it acceptable to eat fish fingers at 8am and Sugar Puffs at midnight? There's a kebab shop right by Camden tube station that is usually open at 10am. The fact they do enough business to justify such opening hours is more than a little terrifying. Imagine filling your coupon that juicy badness for breakfast. Oof. 10.11am GMT Alastair Cook says England would have bowled as well, although it doesn't seem a hugely important toss. England bring in five very experienced players who weren't part of the T20 series, and Joe Root is preferred to Jonny Bairstow.New Zealand Watling, Guptill, Williamson, Taylor, B McCullum (c/wk), Elliott, Ellis, Franklin, N McCullum, Mills, McClenaghan.England Cook (c), Bell, Trott, Root, Morgan, Buttler (wk), Woakes, Broad, Swann, Anderson, Finn. 10.11am GMT \"Evening Rob,\" says Simon McMahon. \" So WTF is this? A Spurs fan and part-time cricket novice covering the first ODI? Speak to your boss.\" 10.11am GMT Morning. Evening. New Zealand may be struggling on the field, but whoever does their itineraries is a world-beater. This England tour has been almost perfectly planned: three T20, three ODIs and then three Tests. The most important part, in terms of the success of the scheduling, is the middle bit. Not only are the ODIs before the Tests \u2013 as they always should be if the cricket world's sanity and will to live are to be preserved \u2013 but there are only three of them.The whole thing will done in a week, and just about the only thing to moan about is the fact THERE'S NOTHING TO BLOODY MOAN ABOUT. Ah, there is one thing: what the hell are those of us in England going to do with our sleep patterns and energy levels* over the next seven days? That aside, this series is pretty much the best thing that has ever happened to anyone, ever. Three-match one-day series used to be the norm; if 50-over cricket is to have a future, it might need to embrace the past.The first white ball will be bowled at 1am English time.* Clean almost three years, before one of you wise derrieres suggests a steady energy drink diet.", "tags": ["England in New Zealand 2012-13", "Cricket", "England cricket team", "New Zealand cricket team"], "title": "New Zealand v England \u2013 as it happened | Rob Smyth"},{"date": "2013-02-17T08:52:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": " 10.11am GMT England have got the collective face on, and I suppose they will feel they threw this away. There is some truth in that, but the biggest factor was the outstanding batting of the captain Brendon McCullum (69 not out from 61 balls) and the injured Martin Guptill 27 not out from 27 balls). It was a fascinating match, which see-sawed constantly. See you on Wednesday for the second ODI. Night. 10.11am GMT Stuart Broad's first ball to McCullum is short. How many times? It's not the smartest bowling, this, and McCullum launches a pull over midwicket for six. He has savaged the short ball in this innings. A deliberately sliced four from Guptill brings the scores level, and he hits the winning runs with seven balls to spare! That's an excellent victory for New Zealand. 10.11am GMT Chris Woakes's first ball to McCullum is short. Can you guess what happens next? All the momentum is with New Zealand now. Guptill picks a slower ball and larrups it past point for four more, and he follows down with a scorchng straight hit to the boundary. Thirteen from the over, and that leaves New Zealand needing 13 from the last two overs. 10.11am GMT Another twist in this fascinating game, with Finn's final over going for 14. The injured Guptill makes just enough room to drive over extra cover for four \u2013 and he uppercuts the next ball for six! That was a wonderful stroke. 10.11am GMT Martin Guptill, who retired hurt early in the innings with a hamstring injury, is the new batsman. 10.11am GMT This is a crucial catch from Steven Finn. Ellis took on the short ball from Broad, which flew off the top edge to fine leg. Finn charged in, crouched forward, and although the ball burst through his hands he just managed to jam it in his arms as he hit the turf.  10.11am GMT McCullum pulls Finn high towards deep square leg, from where Trott charges in and just fails to reach the ball in time. It landed centimetres short and bounced up to hit Trott on the knee as he crouched down in an attempt to take the catch. A brilliant over from Finn \u2013 just three from it, and McCullum will be on strike at the start of the next over 10.11am GMT McCullum works Broad for two to reach a thrilling half-century from 48 balls; then Ellis gloves a pull over Buttler for four runs. Eight from the over, which keeps New Zealand on course. If McCullum is there at the end, they will win this game.\"I broke my PB for hours spent dozing on the sofa last night / this morning, nodding off around 11pm and waking up at a massive 0335 in the morning,\" says Andrew Stroud. \"Inexplicably I wasn\u2019t watching or listening to the cricket at the time either. Can anyone beat this?\" 10.11am GMT New Zealand play it safe in Swann's last over, milking six low-risk singles. Beautifully played. 10.11am GMT England continue to bowl short to McCullum, and McCullum continues to smash the ball to the fence. This time it's off Woakes, a scorching pull well in front of square, and he picks up four more later in the over by flicking a full toss through square leg.\"I must apologise for NZ for the music played tonight (the M*SH theme & then ZZ Top's 'Legs\"'while Guptill was having on-field treatment? really?),\" says Danielle Tolson. \"I still think it's unfair that Guptill will have to bat, runner-less. Why is it so cut & dried now. Now, Nathan McC's on, 'he ain't heavy, he's my brother'. Urgh.\" 10.11am GMT England needed that because Nathan McCullum was playing very well. New Zealand need 73 from 54 balls. 10.11am GMT Nathan McCullum skips down the track to drag the new bowler Swann over mid-on for a big six \u2013 but now he's gone LBW. It was given out on the field and, although Nathan McCullum reviewed it straight away, the third umpire upheld the decision. It hit him in line and would have hit the stumps, but there was some doubt as to whether there was an inside edge. The ball hit pad and inside edge almost simultaneously, but there was no clear evidence that it was bat first and therefore the original decision stands. McCullum looks aggrieved, and you can understand why, but equally I think that was the correct decision in accordance with DRS procedure. 10.11am GMT Brendon McCullum shapes to pull Finn and then aborts the shot, the first time he hasn't taken the short ball on in this innings. Nathan McCullum then makes to steer Finn behind point for four, a high-class stroke. New Zealand need 81 from the last 10 overs.\"Morning Smyth, morning everybody,\" says Josh Robinson. \"Somehow I forgot to manage to stay awake through the night for this one. I almost forgot to get up, too, but if the prospect of OBO humiliation wasn't enough to drag me out of bed after a few too many drinks and a particularly unpleasant train journey back from London, that of a 75-mile bike ride through Cambridgeshire and north Essex certainly did the trick. With that in mind, I may just not be seeing this one through to its conclusion.\" 10.11am GMT The first three balls of Anderson's over have just disappeared for 14. Brendon McCullum swivel-pulls gloriously for six, bottom-edges between Buttler's legs for four and then smashes another pull for four. Seventeen from the over in total.\"Just got round to breakfast,\" says John Starbuck. \"Pikelets with apricot jam and coffee. What's yours?\" Delirium and cravings. 10.11am GMT New Zealand need 104 from 72 balls. In short, they need a Brendon McCullum special. 10.11am GMT England continue to pick up wickets at important times. Franklin tries to pull a short ball from Finn and gloves it down the leg side to Buttler. 10.11am GMT Emails please! 10.11am GMT Anderson comes back on for Swann, who never bowls in the Powerplay. He bowls four consecutive dot balls to Franklin, which pushes the required rate above eight an over. 10.11am GMT New Zealand have to take their batting Powerplay now. McCullum pulls the second ball from Finn round the corner, with the sliding Root doing well to save a couple of runs. McCullum nails the stroke later in the over, pulling a storming flat six. 10.11am GMT The game has changed completely in the last 30 minutes. Two runs from Swann's over, which means New Zealand need 115 from 90 balls. 10.11am GMT Superb fielding from Ian Bell and Chris Woakes gives England the big wicket of Kane Williamson. McCullum pushed Woakes towards mid-on, at which point Williamson set off. He was sent back and was fractionally short of his ground when Bell threw the ball in for Woakes to break the stumps. It was great work from Woakes because he was in front of the stumps, with his weight going the wrong way, but he managed to swing his hands round to break the stumps with Williamson not quite back in his crease. I don't think Williamson realised he was in quite so much trouble, as there was no dive and he seemed fairly relaxed before the third umpire's verdict appeared on the big screen. 10.11am GMT Swann is back on, presumably an attempt to play on McCullum's ego and need to dominate. He gets away with a disgusting reverse sweep, somehow toe-ending it over the man at cover. And then Williamson is dropped! He savaged a rank short ball towards midwicket, and Anderson couldn't hang on as he moved to his right. It would have been a blinder. He had it in his grasp for a couple of seconds before it slipped out. Anderson is livid. 10.11am GMT Williamson pulls Woakes for three, with Joe Root sliding round the boundary to save a run, and then edges one a fraction short of the keeper Buttler. 10.11am GMT McCullum, attempting to turn Broad to leg, gets a leading edge that falls not far short of the bowler. A good over is ruined by a poor last delivery that McCullum flicks off the pads and through midwicket for four. 10.11am GMT Brendon McCullum, the new batsman, misses an attempted hook at Woakes. The next few overs are so important. If England get McCullum early they will on top. 10.11am GMT Chris Woakes strikes with the second ball of a new spell. Elliott threw everything at a wide, full delivery and thick-edged it straight to Morgan at backward point. England are back in the match. 10.11am GMT Williamson skids back in his crease to force Broad through the covers for four. He plays that shot nicely, with a really high elbow. It's easy to see what all the fuss is about with this lad. Broad ends the over with a superb short ball that smashes into Elliott's grille. 10.11am GMT Anderson's second spell hasn't been as good as the first, with a poor delivery to Williamson slipping away for four leg byes. He does find Elliott's edge later in the over, with the ball flying safely for a single. New Zealand are cruising at the moment. 10.11am GMT Broad has switched ends to replace Swann, a good move at a time when England need a wicket. This has been a busy partnership between Williamson and Elliott, particularly in their running. There's not much in this game but you feel New Zealand have this chase under control at the moment. 10.11am GMT \"Your night caller was probably one of those dodgy types, with a tale about needing some cash for a taxi 'cos the car's broken down and the spouse/children have been suddenly taken ill,\" says John Starbuck. \"Just their luck to try it out on a cricket obsessive \u2013 overseas cricket, the reality scam defender. Could you work cricket into a scam tale, though?\"  10.11am GMT Elliott drives Swann against the spin, up and over extra cover for four. That's a lovely stroke. It might be time to give Swann a break, as he's being played pretty easily. 10.11am GMT Stuart Broad replaces Chris Woakes, an aggressive move from Alastair Cook at a time when a wicket, particularly that of Williamson, would put England slightly on top. There's a half shout for LBW against Williamson; he walked across his stumps a bit but it would have missed leg. Williamson steers a single to reach a classy half-century from 70 balls. This is his first ODI against England, and he looks like a proper player. 10.11am GMT New Zealand have milked Swann pretty well thus far. Six singles from that over, and 29 runs from his five overs. 10.11am GMT Woakes's figures: 5-0-18-1. 10.11am GMT Almost another wicket for England. A gorgeous off break from Swann takes the inside edge of Elliott's bat and flies this far wide of leg stump for four. Elliott survives a biggish LBW shout two balls later; it turned too much and Hawkeye showed it would only have trimmed the bails, so the original decision would have stood even if England had reviewed it. 10.11am GMT The new batsman is not Brendon McCullum, as expected, but Grant Elliott. 10.11am GMT This is an important breakthrough, both for Chris Woakes and England. Taylor threw everything at a rare short ball from Woakes and top edged it high to fine leg, where Finn took a good catch. 10.11am GMT Taylor drags a sweep past short fine leg for four off the bowling of Swann. New Zealand have accelerated very well in the last half an hour. They need 187 from 186 balls. 10.11am GMT Three from Woakes's over. England need a wicket. 10.11am GMT This is a high-class stroke from Taylor, a late cut for four off Swann that beats short third man. He is starting to look good.\"Good morning, Rob,\" says Sara Torvalds. \"When do you hink NZ should get worried about the run rate? What with the women's World Cup I find I've lost any sense of what's a reasonable scoring rate... Or possibly I'm just tired, in which case you are obviously the right man to turn to for advice... (How's that breakdown coming along?)\" I reckon they are fine until the REDRUM goes above seven an over. Although of course it also depends how many wickets are down. They have some punishing hitters in this side, particularly these two and Brendon McCullum. 10.11am GMT Taylor gets his first boundary from his 26th delivery with a flashing back cut off Woakes. England will want to keep him out of form for as long as possible, such is his potential destructiveness. At some stage in this series or the Test series he will punish England.\"My wife has asked me to correct my earlier statement about a relaxing few beers whilst watching cricket,\" says Alasdair. \"This is a half truth at best. I am trying to have a beer and watch the cricket, however my three-year-old son has decided that he'd rather clamber all over me and request drinks of my beer (which he doesn't get). He'll be in bed in time for me to watch NZ flounder in its run chase.\" 10.11am GMT Here's Graeme Swann, bowling in an ODI for the first time since August, and a good first over goes for a single. Apologies for the less than award-winning nature of this OBO, by the way; I'm completely shot. I'll shove my head under a tap during the upcoming drinks break.\"Re: Lord Selve's comment, surely a simple rule banning bowling having had a runner will suffice,\" says John Leavey. \"A classic example of sports administrators not thinking things through. Surely there is a place for non-ex-players in these decision making bodies \u2013 more logical and devious minds used to long term thinking? Am open to offers\" 10.11am GMT It's time for Chris Woakes, who is a pretty good fourth seamer to have. He replaces Broad, who bowled a sharp spell of 3-0-10-0. The birds have started singing outside. It's a new day; when did that happen? It still feels like 3am. Woakes's first over yields a couple of singles. Taylor, still playing carefully, has five from 23 balls. 10.11am GMT Finn beats Williamson with a wonderful lifter that holds its line just outside off stump, but the next ball is too straight and touched fine for four. It's hard to know who's on top here. Maybe New Zealand by a whisker. 10.11am GMT A vigorous short ball from Broad is avoided by Taylor, who is taking as long as possible to play himself in against some challenging bowling. He has four from 18 balls.\"I'm pretty sure the clampdown on runners came in the aftermath of a South Africa game in which Dale Steyn batted with a runner, then took the new ball and with it wickets,\" writes Mike Selvey, our man at the ground. 10.11am GMT Finn changes ends to replace the excellent Anderson, and it's another quiet over. The required rate is almost up to a run a ball, although New Zealand won't worry about that for now. 10.11am GMT This isn't far from Test cricket in coloured clothing, with lots of leaves and defensive strokes. Two from Broad's over.\"If this is your Sunday morning, did you have a Saturday night?\" says Danielle Tolson. \"I ask this from NZ, where it is now officially wine o'clock in the sun on Sunday evening. Also, can you remind me of the rationale to do away with runners for injured players?\"My Saturday evening involves two hours' sleep and another two hours failing to get back to sleep. As for the runners, it does seem unfair. The rationale is that the system was being abused; contrary to what Ian Healy said to Arjuna Ranatunga, you basically were allowed a runner for being fat. There must be a better balance than this, though. 10.11am GMT Apparently Guptill will bat later if required. That may well be the case; this has the feel of a close contest. Another excellent over from Anderson goes for a couple. His figures are 5-1-9-1. 10.11am GMT Stuart Broad comes into the attack in place of Finn. Williamson, beaten for pace, top-edges a pull over the keeper's head for a one-bounce four. A number of batsmen have been done for pace by the short ball today.\"I have much sympathy for your night-owl predicament,\" says Andrew Benton. \"But spare a thought for those of us in China who are working this weekend because, in order to get seven days off work in a row for Spring Festival, this\u00a0weekend got moved to Thursday and Friday. It's not so bad when the worked weekend is before the holiday, but its horrible when it's after. Not that anyone's actually thaaaat busy.....it is Sunday, after all.\" 10.11am GMT Ross Taylor was in poor nick during the T20 series, but he's such a dangerous player and this format will allow him a bit of time to build an innings. Four from Anderson's over.\"Did your doorbell-botherer disappear?\" asks Nick Wiltsher. Yep, only rang once. I win. Again. 10.11am GMT Williamson forces Finn off the back foot for four, a really good stroke. It was his back-foot drive earlier in the innings, not Guptill's, and it's a shot he plays with some style. He drives four more off the last ball of the over, down the ground this time. Shot!Guptill concedes defeat at the end of the over, retiring hurt with what looks like a hamstring injury. Ross Taylor is the new batsman. 10.11am GMT Guptill is going to continue, which is a surprise. Anderson completes another fine over; he has figures of 3-1-3-1. 10.11am GMT Guptill takes a quick single off Anderson and pulls something, probably a hamstring. That's a big problem, with no runners allowed these days. The physio is coming on.\"In response to James Walsh (2nd over), I work with an Indian guy here in Jakarta,\" says John Leavey. \"Over a beer the other night he asked 'Do you guys still play cricket?' I put him right, illustrating with recent examples, and he didn't give a flying one about the fate of the Indian team. An Indian not interested in cricket? Weird.\" 10.11am GMT Guptill gets the first boundary with a wonderful back-foot drive off Finn, who then bowls a leg-side wide. That's all folks.\"I remote-taught a programming course online recently,\" says Jim Denvir. \"I was in New York; the attendees were in Singapore and Tokyo, so I was teaching from 9pm to 4:30am each day. It's probably not unlike doing this OBO; not being able to see your audience and working at completely the wrong time of day. The worst session was the one after 'lunch'. I got my energy back during the afternoon break, to the extent that I couldn't sleep during the day that followed. By the end of the week I was so knackered I actually fell down the stairs, which is really embarrassing given that I was stone cold sober.\" I don't mind the Test matches, when it's five days in a row. The problem with this is that it's one day on, two off, one on, two off, and repeat until you mislay your final marble. 10.11am GMT Anderson is bowling a lovely length, just full of good. It's like a Test match at the moment, with Williamson content to defend a maiden. 10.11am GMT A sharp first over from Steven Finn brings just a single for Guptill. This has been a fine start from England.\"Met a couple of New Zealanders earlier at the fancy craft beer place in Islington,\" writes my colleague James Walsh. \"'Looking forward to the ODIs?' I asked. 'To be honest cricket's worse than watching paint dry' came the reply. Have any of your other readers experienced equally underwhelming encounters with Antipodeans recently? I don't even know what to believe any more.\" You definitely need a new chat-up line. 10.11am GMT Actually, that delivery from Anderson didn't take the inside edge \u2013 it came right back through the gate as Watling leaned into the drive. A jaffa. Ten years ago he showed thrilling promise in the VB Series in Australia; it took a while, but boy has he fulfilled that promise.\"Cricket and\u00a0bronchitis have a lot to answer for,\" writes Jo Beasley. \"I've never been awake this early on a Sunday morning, ever. Whilst failing to avoid gender stereotyping, I have to say that as a girl I cry at everything. I have to avoid D.I.Y. S.O.S. entirely if I want my mascara to stay intact.\" 10.11am GMT Jimmy Anderson becomes England's highest wickettaker in international cricket. BJ Watling is his 529th victim, cleaned up by a fine delivery: full and moving back just enough to take the inside edge before ricocheting into middle stump. 10.11am GMT INNINGS BREAK 10.11am GMT Swann hits the first two balls of the final over for four before holing out to deep midwicket, where Ross Taylor takes a fine low catch. England lost their last eight wickets for 74 but that's still not a bad total, especially if the ball swings under lights as it did in the T20 match. New Zealand are probably slight favourites; they need 259 to win the match. See you in half an hour, if I can stay awake. 10.11am GMT McClenaghan is struggling with a side injury and has to leave the field halfway through his final over. That will probably rule him out of the rest of the series, which is a blow for New Zealand as he given England the hurry-up in the last week. He finishes with figures of 9.4-0-56-4, and Kane Williamson bowls the last two balls of the penultimate over. 10.11am GMT McClenaghan gets his fourth wicket. Finn, beaten for pace, pulls high in the air to Guptill, running in from deep square leg. England have lost seven wickets for 64. 10.11am GMT \"Isn't it refreshing,\" says Tom Briggs, \"that for all the modern coaching methods and preparation that England can still manage a good old fashioned collapse?\" Nobody does it better. Makes me feel sad for the rest, with their \"partnerships\" and \"lower-order batting\". 10.11am GMT Woakes pulls consecutive balls from Ellis for four but falls to the next delivery, beautifully caught by Brendon McCullum. He had started to move down the leg side and then dived full length in the opposite direction to claim the edge one-handed. 10.11am GMT Swann pings an attempted yorker from McClenaghan over mid-off for four.\"Lovely late afternoon here in Auckland,\" says Alastair. \"Drinking a few ales watching cricket. Fantastic.\" 10.11am GMT Broad dies by the sword he used to kill New Zealand in the final T20 international \u2013 beaten for pace by a short ball and top-edging a hook straight up in the air. England have lost five for 44 in eight overs. 10.11am GMT A very fine shot from Woakes, who drives Ellis handsomely over mid-off for a one-bounce four. Six from the over. 10.11am GMT Broad can't pierce the field with a couple of nice drives on the up. England need to sneak up to around 260. \"How low on the alcohol totem pole is Justerini & Brooks whisky?\" says Alex McGillivray. I have no idea what you are on about but thanks for the email, without which I'd be fast asleep in a pool of my own drool. 10.11am GMT Now Root has gone, bowled by Franklin. He ran down the track and aimed a big hack to leg that met only with fresh air. A slightly ugly end to a calm, classy innings of 56 from 63 balls. 10.11am GMT Chris Woakes is a useful batsman, although he's not in Samit Patel's class and there's a danger England might lose their way. 10.11am GMT Devastating stuff from Buttler, who slams a short ball from McClenaghan miles over long-on for a 92-metre six. There is every chance that, in 10 years' time, we will consider Jos Buttler the greatest death-hitter England have ever had. And of course, the moment I type that he is dismissed, toe-ending a full toss straight to extra cover. It was a useful innings though: 21 from 13 balls with two awesome sixes. 10.11am GMT Root shapes to ramp Mills, who aborts his delivery as a result. Seven from Mills' final over, so he ends a fine spell with figures of 10-2-32-2.\"Ali Brown is definitely the best England player of recent years to play ODI and not a Test,\" says Nicholas Ladner, \"but he didn't do too well with the chances he was given: 'If Brown had appeared on a one-wheeled bike, wearing a silly hat and a red nose, and thrown custard pies at the umpires, he would scarcely have struck a more ridiculous figure than he did yesterday.' More mischievously, how about one of Vince Wells, Matthew Fleming or Jamie Dalrymple? Ryan ten Doeschate might be a better shout, or Steve Tikolo (or is that cheating?)\"What's wrong with Jazzer Fleming?! If he had played in the 1999 World Cup England would at least have avoided humiliation. And if that's not the mark of a great player then I don't know what is. 10.11am GMT A quick single takes Root to an assured half-century, from 57 balls with four fours. What a thoroughly impressive man. You could take him home to mother. You could say the same about Jos Buttler. After a couple of sighters, he drills Ellis effortlessly over long-off for six. He really is an extraordinary talent.\"Ever since getting engaged, I often watch \"Say Yes To The Dress\" and cry when someone finds their dress,,\" says Suzy McAnanama. \"It's extremely embarrassing because most of my friends can't remember the last time they saw me in a dress, forget about crying about one that some random person on TV picks out.\" 10.11am GMT The new batsman is Jos Buttler, who should get a decent run in the side now. He is England's 27th ODI wicketkeeper. The prize for anyone who can name all 27 is a restraining order. He gets off the mark from his fourth ball with a couple to third man. 10.11am GMT Gah! Eoin Morgan has gone cheaply, cutting Mills to backward point, where Martin Guptill took an excellent low catch to his left. That's a huge breakthrough for New Zealand, who are now only one wicket away from England's lower order. 10.11am GMT Root waits for a slower bouncer from Ellis and hammers it behind square leg for four. Six from the over. England will probably want eight an over from the last 10.\"It's not the question you asked but Mark Butcher is surely the best modern-era English Test player never to play one day international cricket,\" says Will Symonds. \"It's hard to think of any one day stars who haven't found their way into a Test side, even Dermot Reeve played a Test or two I think.\" He did indeed, three in NZ in 1991-92. Have a look at his innings on the first day of this match. There are plenty of great ODI players who haven't played many Tests, with Michael Bevan top of the list, but it's hard to think of great ODI players who haven't played any Tests. Ian Harvey might be the best. 10.11am GMT \"Re: crying, I believe I cried a little \u2013 my eyes became extremely wet, extremely quickly, I'm certain of that much \u2013 at some point during Yeovil Town's 5-2 win over Nottingham Forest in a third division semi-final play-off second leg. I am not a Yeovil fan.\" I remember watching that match with my then housemate, who also was not a Yeovil fan. His coupon was the most perfect, comical study in confused, inebriated despair. 10.11am GMT Trott, making room to flat-bat Mills through the off side, drags the ball back onto the stumps. He goes for a decent innings of 68 from 90 balls. That might be a blessing in disguise for England, as it brings Eoin Morgan to the crease. 10.11am GMT Root gets down on one knee to ramp McClenaghan over the keeper's head for four, and then flicks four more over short fine leg. England have paced this innings pretty well.\"Feeling your pain (to a slightly lesser extent), stuck in the office on a sunny Sydney Sunday afternoon,\" says Dan Silburn. \"Cricket on the telly and the MBM keeping me sane though! I\u2019ve been very impressed with Root, he was being shuffled up and down the order during the Indian ODIs, often mid-game, and it didn\u2019t seem to faze him. He\u2019s offered fantastic support to Trott today, who\u2019s looked a different player since he came to the crease.\" Yeah, his temperament looks outstanding. He plays with the assurance of somebody 10 years older. 10.11am GMT \"I totally fell in love with someone for her tweeting (in Hebrew) 'I'm not crying cause it's that time of the month. I'm crying cause I just saw the last episode of The Thick of It',\" says Phil Podolsky. \"Hardly anyone knew what she was talking about as it wasn't shown over here; but to me it was the last piece in the puzzle of her fascinating, anonymous Twitter persona, defined by a very feline laziness and jaded irony.\u00a0Have no idea what she looks like\u00a0(only that she has a bf), but if her vulnerability is triggered by Malcolm Tucker \u2013 wow, just wow.\" 10.11am GMT DRS comes to Joe Root's rescue. He was given out caught behind off a good short ball from Kyle Mills that seemed to take the glove, but he reviewed the decision with the certainty of a man who had not hit it. Replays showed the ball hit the sleeve rather than the glove. 10.11am GMT Four singles from McClenaghan's over, the first of the Powerplay. The Powerplays are a complete irrelevance now. These regulations definitely need a tweak, although I'm not entirely sure what that should be.\"How long do you think it'll be before we have England greats who never play Test cricket?\" says Michael Jelley. \"Might Hales be the first to be a top class opener in T20 (and eventually perhaps ODI), but never be trusted in Tests? Or will class always win out in the end?\"That's a great question. I suppose it could happen with this generation, perhaps Jos Buttler or Hales. Then again, the best short-form player usually get at least a few Tests to see if their talent is transferable \u2013 and those opportunities will increase as squad rotation becomes the norm. All of which invites the question: who is the best one-day player never to have played Test cricket? 10.11am GMT Six singles from Nathan McCullum's final over. He ends with figures of 10-0-43-0. England must take their batting Powerplay now.\"Apart from the usual England penalty shoot out defeats, the last time I cried was when Flintoff ran out Ponting in 2009,\" says Andy Dennett. \"Not sure that counts tho, as they were tears of laughter!\" 10.11am GMT Mitchell McClenaghan comes back into the attack, starting around the wicket to the right-handers. Trott makes room to flat-bat a couple through the covers, a shot that has served him well today. What a fascinating player he is. He batted like a village duffer for an hour and a half yet he may well end up with a century. His last 28 runs have come from 18 balls.\"Nothing like waking up at 2.36 on a Sunday morning to find Bell out on the charge for 64, headphones and an empty can lying on the floor,\" says Simon McMahon. \"The saddest song in movie history? It's a no-brainer. 'When She Loved Me', the song by Sarah MacLachlan about Jessie from Toy Story 2. Absolutely devastating. Does it every time.\" Oh metrosexuality, so much to answer for. 10.11am GMT \"Black Caps fan following your MBM at a ski lodge here in California,\" says Patrick Doherty. \"Cheers for the updates!\" I would say it's a pleasure, but that would be stretching the truth at 3am on a Sunday morning. 10.11am GMT Grant Elliott comes on to bowl some dibbly-dobbly-wobbly. An otherwise decent over is ruined by the last ball, a slower full toss that is pulled for four by Trott. That takes him to the usual half-century, from 74 balls and with four fours. He was laboured for a long time, but his last 23 runs have come off only 14 balls. 10.11am GMT There's something very impressive about the way Root makes himself at home the moment he arrives at the crease, regardless of the match situation. He picks up his second boundary with a classy, fast-handed cover drive off Williamson, and has moved busily to 19 rom 22 balls. 10.11am GMT Consecutive boundaries for Trott off Franklin, with an on-the-walk cut followed by a flick off the hip. Eleven from the over, an excellent one for England 10.11am GMT Kane Williamson comes on to bowl some part-time off spin. Five singles from the over. Anyone still out there? 10.11am GMT Trott gets his second boundary, waiting for a slower ball from Franklin before cross-batting it wide of extra cover. Then he flicks off the hip and just wide of Taylor at midwicket. England are just about on course for a par score of around 270. 10.11am GMT Trott hit his first ball for four but hasn't found the boundary in 59 balls since. He needs to be careful not to put too much pressure on Root. I certainly don't think he has misjudged the pitch or is batting selfishly; he's just out of nick. But he will have to hit out or get out at some stage. 10.11am GMT A good bouncer from Franklin clangs off Trott's helmet for four leg byes. Trott is still struggling to time the ball.\"Re: Rai Skrupskis: there's nothing pathetic about crying over Leicester City \u2013 it's the sign of a real man,\" says Michael Jelley. \"The best part of being a Leicester fan is that only we know how good Emile Heskey was \u2013 and (fao sceptics) I'm not remotely joking. I have, however, been on the cognac.\" 10.11am GMT English cricket really loves Joe Root right now. He opens the face to slice his first ball, from McCullum, wide of short third man for four. 10.11am GMT \"Teary confessions,\" says Ian Truman. \"This is an easy one... The Seth and Summer Spiderman scene from the OC. Or an Ian Bell batting highlights compilation.\"If you didn't cry at this scene, you're not human. 10.11am GMT This is an important wicket for New Zealand. Bell, on the charge again, throws the bat at a wide one from James Franklin and snicks it through to the keeper McCullum. A soft end to an excellent innings: 64 from 79 balls, with six fours and two sixes. 10.11am GMT Bell is playing quite beautifully here. He walks down the track to McCullum and chips another confident boundary, this time to long-off. Eight from the over. When he plays like this you wonder why he hasn't been England's ODI Mark Waugh for the last five years.\"Remembering England playing Tests in the nineties can occasions move me to years,\" says John Doyle. I reckon England's 1990s Test team has an unfair reputation \u2013 certainly compared to the 1980s team. Mainly because, as Scyld Berry pointed out, of their respective records against Australia. England gave everybody else a game in the 1990s, certainly at home. I wonder how good they'd have been with central contracts and consistency of selection. 10.11am GMT \"I wonder whether you think that having the ODIs sandwiched between the T20s and Tests will have an effect on the rhythm of the ODIs (and more importantly, the Tests),\" says Olly Bevan. \"I agree that having eight ODIs after a two-Test series is absurd, but does the structure used in NZ allow for a ramping up to Test cricket, or does it blur some lines of technique and patience that are otherwise untouched? This seems to be a particular problem for the England side given that the T20s are basically entirely separate, with a different captain and markedly different personnel, whereas the ODIs are much closer to the Test set-up.\"Player seem pretty adaptable these days, sometimes even within the same format (see AB de Villiers' amazing pair of innings in the Tests in Australia), so I don't think it will change too much. Building up to the Tests this way does seem to make sense, although I quite like the idea of ODIs, Tests and then T20s as a breezy afterparty. ODIs before Tests is the golden rule, though. ODIs are pants and Tests are socks. (Link contains adult language, blah blah.) 10.11am GMT Trott is all over the place. He is beaten outside off stump by McCullum and then top-edges another sweep, this time just over short fine leg.\"Pathetic things to cry about,\" says Rai Skrupskis. \"Leicester City. Since the 1961 FA Cup Final.\" 10.11am GMT Bell, on the walk, pulls Ellis sharply round the corner for four \u2013 and then reaches his fifty with an elegant chip over long-on for six. That was a delicious stroke.\"Other than onions, women, death and the 1987 FA Cup final not a lot makes me weep,\" says Stephen Wolstencroft. \"I am ashamed to admit, however, that I cried at the end of Dead Poets' Society. I may also cry tomorrow when I sober up and realise I've confessed to this in writing...\" 10.11am GMT Trott is batting like a man who hasn't introduced willow to leather in a competitive match since December, and he top-edges a sweep off McCullum dangerously close to the man at short fine leg. He has 18 from 37 balls, Bell 42 from 64.\"I confess, I feel I can as all your readers are drunk or sleep deprived so will remember little, to shedding tears at children's movies,\" says Phil Withall. \"Not even sad ones. My kids mock me for it. Wreck it Ralph was shameful as my eldest called out 'Crying yet, Dad?' in a crowded cinema. I wasn't, honest...\" It was just raining on your face? 10.11am GMT My doorbell has just rung. Who the hell could it be at this hour? It's either a booty call, which I'd have to reject anyway due to my unyielding professionalism, or somebody drunk looking for a full and frank exchange of views and fists. I'll ignore it. Play has resumed after the drinks break, with Trott edging an on-the-walk slap off Ellis to third man for a single. Bell then drags one in the air but well wide of midwicket. 10.11am GMT Trott has been relatively becalmed since hitting his first ball for four, with only nine from 32 deliveries since then. Time for drinks. 10.11am GMT \"Sorry to look through this series and the next to the Ashes, but Pietersen for Morgan, Prior for Buttler, and Compton for Woakes \u2013 is this the side to face the Aussies on 10 July?\" says Steven Larcombe. \"And will it be Compton?\"You would think that, fitness permitting, there are nine near-certainties in Cook, Trott, Pietersen, Bell, Prior, Broad, Swann, Finn and Anderson. Then it depends whether Root opens or bats No6, provided he doesn't have a shocker in the upcoming Test series. But things change so quickly. If you had picked an England team six months before the 2005 Ashes it wouldn't have had Pietersen in it. 10.11am GMT Bell, sent back by Trott, survives a token run-out referral.\"I'm not someone who cries \u2013 especially not at films,\" writes Leo Watkins. \"Toy Story 3 had me crying my eyes out, though. But as anyone who has seen it knows, it's a magnificent piece of storytelling, so maybe it's excusable (here's Mark Kermode welling up just talking about it). The ending of Gladiator, on the other hand, I am genuinely ashamed at having wept at.\" 10.11am GMT Bell pulls Ellis for a flat six, just over the leaping McClenaghan at deep backward square. A kid sitting just behind him, in front of the boundary boards, showed New Zealand's fielders how to do it with a beautiful diving catch. 10.11am GMT The offspinner Nathan McCullum replaces Kyle Mills, who bowled a fine spell of 6-2-14-0, and he has Bell dropped in his first over. Bell fetched a slog-sweep from well outside off stump, which meant he couldn't control the shot, and it went high in the air towards midwicket. BJ Watling charged in, slid forward and put down a difficult chance.\"That team from 91-92 bats a bit deep doesn't it?\" says Guy Hornsby. \"And Derek \"barrel-chested\" Pringle's figures are sensational. 6 overs, 11 runs and 2 wickets. They don't make 'em like that any more. Glorious days. Samit must look at him and think he was born 22 years late.\" 10.11am GMT Trott flicks Ellis behind square for a couple. It's all pretty sedate at the moment. You do wonder whether the recent rule changes might need a tweak.\"So, do we find you cranky as it's a personal best early rise so you are sleep deprived,\" says Robert Wilson-Fry, \"or cranky because you've left Bull et al in Madam Flexible's emporium of the damned?\"I thought I was quite chipper. You want franky, come back at 7am. By then I'll either be murderous or in the throes of a storming nervous breakdown. 10.11am GMT \"Just watched Scorsese's 'Hugo',\" says Mac Millings. \"I cried. A lot. Mind you, this is coming from a man who has been known to cry at TV ads. This isn't some sort of 'comic' invention; 30-second films whose sole purpose is to sell me stuff have made me weep. What are the most pathetic things, I wonder, that your ones of readers have ever cried at?\" 10.11am GMT McClenaghan is replaced by Andrew Ellis, a right-arm seamer who made his international debut a year ago, just before his 30th birthday. Bell, on the walk, misses a hook at a sharp short ball \u2013 and then there's a run-out chance for Taylor. Bell pushed the ball towards mid-on and set off for a dodgy single, but Taylor, running round midwicket, couldn't pick up and throw at the stumps in one movement. Had he done so he was close enough to the stumps that he wouldn't probably have hit.\"Good to see the readership as bladdered as I intend to get shortly,\" says Seamus Devlin. \"Tis a touch tricky as I am going out with the male half of some new friends. He's a doctor and asked me 'for a beer'. As I have absolutely no brakes when it comes to the demon drink I suspect my definition of 'a beer' and his are quite different. Hope to read the result later if I am not otherwise detained by the local constabulary.\" 10.11am GMT Mills jags a good one back to hit Trott on the elbow, with the ball ricocheting this far wide of the off stump. Trott is beaten again later in the over, although rather worryingly I've already forgotten what exactly happened. An excellent maiden from Mills, who has figures of 5-2-12-0.\"My god, man,\" says Stephen Wolstencroft \"Do they never let you sleep? In the week that's seen the Pope quit, aliens land in Russia disguised as a meteor crash, and the revelation that we've all been eating donkeys or people or something, you've been chained to the internet drip feeding sport to online loners like me for what seems like 100 hours straight. Have a heart, Guardian, release the man to spend a few last hours with his loved ones/Rothmans & Wisden collection before the world gets even worse.\"You jest, but if the world was ending in a few hours' time I'd be straight on Statsguru, searching for one last statgasm. Am I wrong? 10.11am GMT The Problem has started confidently. When McClenaghan swings one onto the pads, he flicks it up and over square leg for four. He gets another boundary with a controlled pull behind square. Bell has been in fine form in ODI cricket since he moved up the order last summer; he needs to continue that form with the likes of Kevin Pietersen and Alex Hales around. 10.11am GMT Bell wanders jauntily down the track to chip Mills over mid-on for four. When he is playing well he must be so intimidating to bowl to, because he makes shots like that look so easy.\"Morning Rob, morning everybody (all three of you),\" says Guy Hornsby. \"I feel your pain Mr S. I'm in the worst of most worlds here too. Unlikely the gloriously inebriated Mr Sawyer, I can't even drink at the moment due to lung shenanigans and heavy steroids. I'm juiced up like Lance. Minus the bikes. Still, I've won as many Tours de France as him. Honk. I foresee a Cook ton and ten-run win tonight. I guess I'll know when I wake up.\"A Cook ton? Get to a hospital. You're sick as a dog man! 10.11am GMT It's been a slow start from England's batsmen, but that's the way of it in 50-over cricket in 2013. And New Zealand have bowled pretty well with the new balls. McClenaghan has a strangled LBW shout against Bell \u2013 it was too high \u2013 and then Trott digs out a yorker.\"Here's a link to Mitchell McClenaghan's video as CLEO bachelor of the year candidate,\" purrs Danielle Tolson. 10.11am GMT The last time England won an ODI series in New Zealand was in 1991-92, when England had their greatest one-day side.\"Pillow, duvet, sofa, Spitfire ale, cricket,\" says Les Smith. \"Happy man.\" You're listening to Sparklehorse? 10.11am GMT Trott, whose last innings was the century in the final Test in India, times his first ball supremely through midwicket for four.\"My thoughts on staying up til 1am having been up since 7am this morning \u2013 is there enough wine left?\" says Mark Peachey. \"And is it a cunning plan by the England team to have their kit blend into the wickets Predator-style to discombobulate the umpires?\" 10.11am GMT Alastair Cook has been cleaned up by Mitchell McClenaghan. It was a bit of a strange dismissal: he pushed defensively down the wrong line, even though the ball didn't do much, and was bowled off the pad. I think he was also stuck on the crease when he should have been forward, although we haven't seen a replay yet. 10.11am GMT There's no sign of swing, and once England get their eye in these should be good batting conditions. Cook miscuts a short ball from Mills that falls short of Williamson at point, and gets off the mark next ball by leaning into a wide half-volley and timing it for four. Mills has a big shout for LBW turned down later in the over \u2013 Mills was very confident, but it looked too high and Brendon McCullum decides not to risk New Zealand's only review.\"The Beard Liberation Front says England's clean shaven ODI team may struggle batting first against New Zealand,\" says Keith Flett. \"Organiser Keith Flett said, they'll miss Priory's beard.\" 10.11am GMT The lively Mitchell McClenaghan starts from the other end. He's a not inconsiderable unit, although I'm pretty sure I could take him. The first runs of the day come from the last delivery of the over, a decisive slap through the covers for four.\"Ian 'The Problem' Bell is going to get a hundred,\" says Simon McMahon. I like the idea of players having darts-style nicknames, especially rubbish ones, to sex down ODIs. James 'Credit to the Bald Community' Tredwell. Alastair 'Remorseless on the Square Cut But Vulnerable To The Full Inswinger Early In His Innings' Cook. 10.11am GMT This is the same pitch that was used for the second T20, when England were trounced in the comedy style. The personnel are different on both sides, with the experienced Kyle Mills opening the bowling to Alastair Cook and Ian Bell. Mills, who has a wonderful ODI record, starts with a maiden to Cook.\"Evening/morning Rob,\" says Phil Sawyer. \"Looking forward to catching at least some of this match. Unfortunately, I am a tad tipsy. That's a tad tipsy in the 'been on the vodka and gingers all night' sense, so my grasp on events is somewhat limited. So just remind me how many goals England need to score, which way round the board the players go, and when they can play their joker and I'll be bang up to speed.\"This is disgraceful. Not only do the Guardian puts a cricket novice on the OBO, but now even the readers don't know what's going on! 10.11am GMT England are second, New Zealand eighth, but New Zealand had an extremely good 2-1 win in South Africa last month.\u00a0 10.11am GMT Tell me what you think about me. I buy my own diamonds and I buy my own rings. Only ring your cell-y when I'm feelin' lonely. When it's all over please get up and leave.To what extent should you modify your eating habits during these Antipodean tours? Is it acceptable to eat fish fingers at 8am and Sugar Puffs at midnight? There's a kebab shop right by Camden tube station that is usually open at 10am. The fact they do enough business to justify such opening hours is more than a little terrifying. Imagine filling your coupon that juicy badness for breakfast. Oof. 10.11am GMT Alastair Cook says England would have bowled as well, although it doesn't seem a hugely important toss. England bring in five very experienced players who weren't part of the T20 series, and Joe Root is preferred to Jonny Bairstow.New Zealand Watling, Guptill, Williamson, Taylor, B McCullum (c/wk), Elliott, Ellis, Franklin, N McCullum, Mills, McClenaghan.England Cook (c), Bell, Trott, Root, Morgan, Buttler (wk), Woakes, Broad, Swann, Anderson, Finn. 10.11am GMT \"Evening Rob,\" says Simon McMahon. \" So WTF is this? A Spurs fan and part-time cricket novice covering the first ODI? Speak to your boss.\" 10.11am GMT Morning. Evening. New Zealand may be struggling on the field, but whoever does their itineraries is a world-beater. This England tour has been almost perfectly planned: three T20, three ODIs and then three Tests. The most important part, in terms of the success of the scheduling, is the middle bit. Not only are the ODIs before the Tests \u2013 as they always should be if the cricket world's sanity and will to live are to be preserved \u2013 but there are only three of them.The whole thing will done in a week, and just about the only thing to moan about is the fact THERE'S NOTHING TO BLOODY MOAN ABOUT. Ah, there is one thing: what the hell are those of us in England going to do with our sleep patterns and energy levels* over the next seven days? That aside, this series is pretty much the best thing that has ever happened to anyone, ever. Three-match one-day series used to be the norm; if 50-over cricket is to have a future, it might need to embrace the past.The first white ball will be bowled at 1am English time.* Clean almost three years, before one of you wise derrieres suggests a steady energy drink diet.", "tags": ["England in New Zealand 2012-13", "Cricket", "England cricket team", "New Zealand cricket team"], "title": "New Zealand v England \u2013 as it happened | Rob Smyth"},{"date": "2013-03-26T09:33:21Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand may set up a regulator to deal with every aspect of media - broadcasting, print and online news.A report by the country's law commission has produced a report urging the creation of a sort of one-stop shop for both old and new media to be known as the News Media Standards Authority (NMSA).The law commission's president, Grant Hammond, distanced the decision from the Leveson inquiry by stating that said that New Zealand's review was not driven by a crisis of confidence in its media.Instead it was prompted by gaps and disparities in the legal and ethical standards and accountabilities that applied to news and current affairs.The NMSA would be a non-state body, with voluntary membership. It would be available to all news providers, including bloggers, but privileges accorded to media would only be available to those who signed up. It would have a separate legal existence independent of the industry and the commission recommends that it should be an incorporated society. There should not be any government or industry involvement in appointments to the body. The commission, recognising the move from print to digital, states:\"Within the next decade it is conceivable that there will be few if any printed daily newspapers. Over the same time period there is likely to be an exponential increase in the amount of audio-visual content accessed on-demand via mobile and other devices. In this converged environment consumers must be confident that consistent standards apply to similar types of content irrespective of the format or platform by which it is accessed.\"In another key passage, it says:\"We conclude that there is a strong public interest in adopting a broad-church definition of 'news media' reflecting the need to nurture a diverse and robust fourth estate during a time of unprecedented commercial and technological disruption.\"Hammond said: \"In our view the current system of format-based complaints bodies adjudicating against different standards is inequitable for news producers, confusing for the public, and inconsistent with the realities of technological and content convergence. A new level playing field is required.\"Sources: New Zealand Listener/New Zealand Herald Full report: Available here", "tags": ["Media", "Press regulation", "New Zealand", "Leveson inquiry"], "title": "New Zealand may create one-stop shop for media regulation"},{"date": "2013-05-26T18:04:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": " 7.04pm BST I'm afraid I've got to leave, right now. It's been fun. For long periods. Thanks as ever for the emails and stuff. Bye! 7.03pm BST JONATHAN TROTT HITS THE BALL WITH HIS BAT AND SCORES A RUN! Two runs, in fact. It really was sensational stuff. Earlier, Cook grabbed another four. England's captain scored 88 from 132 balls, at 0.67 runs per ball. The other two got 18 from 114 at 0.16 runs per ball. He's been playing one game, the others, another. And that's stumps. 6.59pm BST Southee bowls this one, and Trott, who scored his ninth run from the third ball of the 33rd over, makes absolutely no attempt to score a 10th. We will have one more over tonight. \"The streaker was a bloke who'd come in a suit and just removed his jacket. And his shoes when halfway round his lap of the ground,\" reports Mike Selvey. Does that count as a streak? Is there a minimum amount of disrobing that must be done in order to qualify? That's just a man with no shoes jogging about a bit. 6.54pm BST There's more drama at this end than at Headingley. Daniel has left the building at some speed, so this is Simon taking over again briefly. You'll notice that England scored two runs in that over, and that Cook got them. Wagner bowled it. That's you up to date. 6.49pm BST Southee is back, now bowling down the hill. But Cook sees him coming, and waits for his first ball to arrive on his pads before dismissing it in short order, speeding over the rope for a boundary-four. The next ball, though is a beauty, straightening before making long bacon at his outside edge on its way past.Updated at 6.49pm BST 6.43pm BST Wagner into the attack, and after Cook times one to cover for a single, Trott attempts to reciprocate after the ball hits his pad and squirts to square-leg. He was plenty out with a hit, but the fielder - I saw not who - missed, and we're back to before. 6.40pm BST Guardian Exclusive: the Headingley press box was modelled on the Rubik's snake.Oh, and another maiden.Updated at 6.41pm BST 6.37pm BST Is this yet on the level of those unbearable evening sessions in the 2011 Sri Lanka series? It's getting there. But then Southee drops one right into Cook's slot outside off, and he steps into a drive - for four through the covers. Small pleasures. 6.32pm BST Williamson continues, bowling accurately though without much turn. Trott drops one into the covers for a single, and then Cook flicks one behind that McCullum almost turns into a chance, reading it and bending low in an effort to grab it but connecting with his boot first. Great effort.Updated at 6.33pm BST 6.29pm BST Beersnakes and the construction of are almost becoming interesting - this is some seriously turgid turge. The unwillingness to attack is most curious - if this were a boxing match, England would be warned for passivity, but that's not exactly the point - they've got their hobnails burrowed into the jugular against a demoralised and inferior team, a curious position from which to sing a lullaby. Then, suddenly, after 22 balls without, England score a run - two, noch! Take that. 6.24pm BST Things that are less pervious than Jonathan Trott: 6.23pm BST Southee is keeping it tight, but it's not strictly easy to comprehend what England are at here. With the weather decent tomorrow, but not on Tuesday, you might have thought that they might have thought that it'd be prudent to try and move the game on. Not so.Meanwhile, Michael Lee emails in with another Bouncer, dreamer of television's most fabled dream.Updated at 6.23pm BST 6.18pm BST Southee comes on for Bracewell. 6.17pm BST Marie Miller reckons England didn't enforce the follow-on because \"Chappell is Australian and therefore Cook is keen to pass him\" - referring to how many Test centuries he and Greg have. I cannot imagine that being so - Cook will pass him, and it's hardly a significant milestone, especially to a man who collects them like they're Garbage Pail Kids. 6.13pm BST I once visited a student house in Leeds, and walked into a bedroom to find Headingley sitting outside the window. There can be surer way to ensure a long academic career. Bracewell bundles in as best he can, Cook nurdling a single from the first ball, and the second, a bouncer is called wide. Imagine if bowling a bouncer actually meant bowling a bouncer.Not much happens. Updated at 6.14pm BST 6.05pm BST Poor old T.H.E. Compdog. However, h might yet save himself with some runs for Somerset, and the lack of a viable alternative. Bell is making nae runs at four, so seems unlikely they'll promote him; Root, on the other hand, is making them at five, and untested against the new ball in Tests, so seems unlikely they'll promote him; and Trott's been doing well enough at three so seems unlikely they'll promote him.In the meantime, a streaker is upon us, whom we're forbidden from enjoying. Funny, the stuff we are and aren't allowed to see. Take My Family, for example.Three from the over. Still, my beating heart.Updated at 6.06pm BST 5.59pm BST New Zealand are being gristled into the grind here, and are powerless to do anything about it. Cook, after batting like Sehwag for a short while, has become becalmed, and Trott, incongruous name and all, is minding his own business as only he can. He shoulders arms at the penultimate ball of the over, after Cook fiddled a single to leg, and then steps across and down the pitch to drive Bracewell to long-on for four. Incredible scenes.Updated at 6.01pm BST 5.55pm BST There has been a change in the typing box. In the meantime, England score nae runs, thanks in part to a brilliant diving stop by Wagner at backward-point. 5.53pm BST Trott continues on his unhurried way. That's 21 balls so far for his four runs. Still, he's looking less troubled by it than was Compton. And if anyone dare compare about their entertainment here, this is what fans got before the Coppa Italia footer final, currently being played \u2013 a six-month-old Korean novelty hit, performed behind barriers they could barely see through. No wonder they booed. 5.49pm BST England's lead is at 260, and they are in absolutely no hurry to increase it. Trott, chewing furiously, had to play all but one of Williamson's first five deliveries and hit them a combined, what, 10 feet, before he inside edges the last, gets away with it and runs a single. 5.45pm BST A lovely cover drive brings Cook another boundary. A few balls later New Zealand appeal loudly after the ball goes nowhere near Trott or anything he is wearing or holding. He is not out. 5.41pm BST Two off the over, flicked away by Trott off his pads. Just a reminder that play will continue until 7pm today, because it's sunny and everyone's having fun. 5.38pm BST Compton's innings was a horrorshow, really. Just awkward, like being in an audience watching a horribly unfunny comedian who knows none of his jokes are any good but still has to stand on a stage and say stuff. Anyway, another maiden, from Bracewell to Cook. 5.34pm BST That's yer over \u2013 four dot balls to Compton, then the wicket, then one defended away by Trott.Updated at 5.36pm BST 5.33pm BST The ball clips Compton's bat, and then his pad, and then loops into the air. Rutherford catches, the umpire is nonplussed for a while, everyone knows it was out, New Zealand review it and Compton is indeed out.Updated at 5.33pm BST 5.29pm BST Bracewell comes in, and bowls a maiden to Cook. England's lead is now 252. So, given Tuesday's weather forecast (apocalyptic) when to declare? Or just enjoy the batting practice?Updated at 5.36pm BST 5.24pm BST Southee does well to save a run with a dive to stop Cook's shot on the boundary rope. As a result Cook only gets three, and Compton gets another couple of chances to not score any runs, which he gleefully takes.Updated at 5.36pm BST 5.21pm BST Cook thwacks another boundary through point, bringing up his 50 in 63 balls, nine of them having gone for four. \"I'm aware tis the English way to find something to crit at moments like this, so Compton's stickiness is always going to be the main subject of the day,\" writes Mark Turner, \"but a word about Cook every so often would be appreciated, because he looks in superb fettle. Please?\" He does indeed, but it's the contrast between the two of them that's really fascinating here.Cook has 53 and could actually lap Compo tonight.Updated at 5.24pm BST 5.17pm BST Williamson's third ball keeps low and straight, goes through McCullum's legs and trundles away for four. Then there's a lovely little sweep that goes for four, and a single off the last to keep the strike. Steve Davis then takes a while to decide whether Williamson had bowled five balls or six. \"You just have a sensation, you know when you've come to the end of your over,\" says Michael Holding. Do you really? 5.13pm BST Drinks having been taken, Wagner bowls six times and Compton gets no runs. He does, though, give a glimpse of his mounting discomfort when he flings his bat at a very wide third delivery which he had no business going after. 5.06pm BST Surely if Cook has really changed his match tactics to give Compton the best possible opportunity to play himself back into form, he wouldn't then be spending this innings single-mindedly denying him any opportunity to play himself back into form. Anyway, Compton will have another chance to shine shortly, after Williamson bowled out a maiden to Cook, who has faced precisely twice as many balls as his fellow opener (56). 5.03pm BST A better over from Wagner. Cook gets a single from the last to keep up his strike-hogging. Lots of OBOers looking on the bright side of the follow-on decision, you charitable lot. Highlights include Cook \"giving his stuttering lower order another opportunity to get into their groove\", \"keeping the foot on the fragile neck of NZ and giving Compton and maybe Bell a chance to knock up a useful innings or two\" and \"making hay for a few hours, get a lead of 350-400 and putting a demoralised NZ in again tonight\". 4.59pm BST Williamson has a go at the bowling, and ironic cheers ring out as Compton works the second ball away for a couple, and then more cheers as he gives the fourth similar treatment. \"The decision not to enforce the follow-on has to be a commercial one doesn't it?\" suggests Sean Moore. \"After the first-day wash-out, the powers that be couldn't risk New Zealand being bowled out again this afternoon/evening and missing out on a bumper bank holiday pay-day. Or am I missing something?\" Commercial considerations trumping sporting ones? Impossible, surely. 4.55pm BST A four off Wagner's second ball moves England on to 50, of which Cook has been responsible for 86% at more than a run a ball, a loose delivery by Wagner for 8% and Compton for 6%, at 0.16 runs per ball. 4.52pm BST New Zealand aren't happy with the ball, and get a different one. @JonnyB on Twitter and John Tumbridge on email speculate that the follow-on decision was made to give Compton \"one more opportunity to prove himself as a batter\". Certainly if he plays himself back into form, given the state of play in the match and series, the decision will probably have been worthwhile. Whether that was actually the intention behind it, I really doubt. What if he'd got out cheaply (as he still might)? And the rest of England's batsmen too? 4.46pm BST The contrast between these batsmen is painful. One so smooth, finding gaps. For the other, nothing comes easily. An artist and a labourer. Anyway, that was a maiden. You don't need to be told who was on strike. Meanwhile, Trent Boult has injured his side and is unlikely to bowl again in this match. 4.41pm BST Cook is snarfing everything remotely wide, and when he edges a straight one it zips straight through the rather large gap between second slip and gully and away for four. He's now got 36 from 35 balls. Later, COMPTON GETS A RUN! \"Always hear this trotted out, 'Modern captains tend not to enforce the follow-on.' What kind of explanation is that? We don't do it because it's not done? Call me a pedant, Mike Atherton and others, but sounds to me like a cricketing tautology.\" Certainly the fact that it tends not to be done doesn't change the fact that it's available, and the captain's decision needs to be explained. 4.36pm BST Cook is offered a couple of opportunities to score, and takes them both. Wagner has to change his line after those two, and change it he does \u2013 sending the following ball down the leg side for four byes. Cook grabs a single from the last to keep strike for a third over. Wagner's two overs have gone for 18 runs. \"Are we sure that they knew follow on margin was 150 not 200 because of loss of first day's play,\" asks kbarnes. \"I didn't.\" I guess we won't know for sure until the day is over and a microphone is thrust into someone's face. Surely, though. Surely. 4.32pm BST Mid-on does well to get some fingers to Cook's lovely shot off the first ball, from which England get two, and then Cook gets another three from the last. Compton has been on two runs for rather a long time. \"Re Athers (1st over), the last time England had the chance to enforce, in Wellington, they did so,\" writes Mike Selvey. \"There was bad weather around which did indeed finish off the game. But poor forecast here for Tuesday. This decision smacks rather more of expedience, knowing they aren't going to lose and are up in the series.\" 4.28pm BST Cook doubles England's tally by cutting Wagner's first ball of the innings for four, and then gets another boundary off the third, clipped off his legs through square leg. And so to the highest last-wicket totals. Looking at the 20 highest last-wicket partnerships over the last five years, England have conceded three of them (including the highest, 143 by West Indies last June. Today's effort by Boult and Wagner is No19). Pakistan conceded two, New Zealand one, South Africa four, West Indies two, India two and Sri Lanka four. So not really (though England did concede Nos 21 and 22 as well.Updated at 4.28pm BST 4.23pm BST Another maiden, this time from Southee to Compton. \"I'm wondering if I am oversensitive about this, and therefore seeing something that isn't really there, but do England give up more runs for the last wicket than any other test side?\" asks Jesse Linklater. \"Both Wagner and Boult were described as legitimate 10th/11th batsmen, yet England gave up a 52 run partnership. It seems to happen a lot. Tell me it's only me.\" I will tell you, in just six balls time. 4.19pm BST Boult bowls a maiden over to Cook, who defends one, leaves four and is hit on the pad after being tied up by the other. 4.15pm BST Compton could have done without this. Feeling the pressure, perhaps, he flings his bat at a wide one from Southee and inside-edges it into the ground and horribly close to his stumps. He gets away with it. That was the first ball of the over. The last flies an inch or two past his edge. Uncomfortable. This is an opportunity for him, to lift the pressure or to be submerged beneath it. 4.09pm BST So England, with a lead of 180 and rain forecast for tomorrow, have chosen not to enforce the follow-on. Headingley is echoing to the sound of heads being scratched. \"Modern captains tend not to enforce the follow-on,\" says Mike Atherton. Perhaps. Maybe England want the left-armers to give Swann some deeper, rougher rough to bowl at. Maybe Cook just fancies a knock. Seems to me a truly emphatic victory was there to be taken, and England have not even reached out their hand. Anyway, Trent Boult bowls fast and straight and both openers get a single.New Zealand all out for 174. 180 behind but England going to bat again. Cant think why. 3.52pm BST Well, New Zealand have accomplished what we thought was impossible, and rivaled the laughable, cowardly, lame, miserable, spineless collapse of the first test with another equally august. Well, done!England, though, did well to ride a ropey start, and bowled really well this afternoon. In particular, Finn can be pleased with his efforts, first locating and then sustaining his rhythm, after which Swann swanned in and through the middle order, with vicious, pecking, cackling aggression. If I were an Australian left-armer, I'd be bowling in my moccasins through the Ashes to restrict the rough, because their batsmen don't look equipped to handle him.Anyway, that's tea.Updated at 4.10pm BST 3.47pm BST Wagner charges again and misses. Anderson hits. England are not enforcing the following on. My face is doing a confused face. A confused face mixed with a vex-up face. 3.45pm BST Welcome to the game, Bozo! Wagner trots down the track and slices a short ball over cover. That's the fifty partnership, in 24 balls. New Zealand are hustlers. 3.44pm BST Jimmy Anderson comes on. 3.43pm BST As Boult charges Swann then retreats and dabs him for four, Janet Keyte emails in on the meaning of the meaning of life. Affronted, Boult whams Swann down the ground and over long-off for six, then another to long-on. But existential investigation stops for no rabbit, thus: \"THE MEANING OF THE OBO - WHY 17?,\" she shrieks, \"other, than, I suppose, to provoke this sort of response. Why not 42 ? which is favoured not only by Douglas Adams but also by Fred Hoyle. Or 19 ?? (see yesterday's thread on cricket-related songs).If ever you ask someone to come up with a random number, my scientific inquiry can reveal that it is always seventeen, and thus reflects the unpredictable nature of the universe. Consider humanity, for example. Updated at 3.43pm BST 3.39pm BST Broad is clearly fancying himself to polish this off, and is less than gruntled when Wagner edges him through behind for four. For reasons known best to whoever be the knowers of reason, England have over--populated the covers and under-populated the slips. The consequence of this is one more boundary-four, and Broad is gesticulating for a third man. He receives a third slip instead, which is a risk - both Boult and Wagner are known for their flowing drives, most particularly on the off-side. Accordingly, Wagner teases them by flinging bat at ball and connecting, sending the ball down to the fence at square-leg. Oooh, and there's another, this time through the covers. That's 19 from the over, plus one germinating temper. 3.33pm BST Boult's had as much as he can stands and he can't stands no more, clouting Swann from outside off to long-on, scoring a boundary six. Otherwise, nothing happens. 3.31pm BST Wagner adds four to the total via a thick outside edge, and Cook returns \u2013 he may, it is thought, have taken instruction on what to do. Well, says Rashi. Rashbam thinks he was checking on Anderson, who's off the field.Updated at 4.11pm BST 3.29pm BST Cook runs off, which suggets England will bat again. Curious behaviour, given the weather forecast. Then, Boult jabs at a short ball and Root gets a hand to it at short leg, but can't palm it up or snaffle it first up.Updated at 3.32pm BST 3.26pm BST McCullum looks back in disgust, as Broad bowls a perfect delivery - full, bouncy, and destined for the top of off. Deciding he'd best drive, when he'd best not, the ball gets predictably big on him, and he edges a straightforward catch behind. Updated at 3.27pm BST 3.23pm BST This is some risible risibility risibilising right here. 3.22pm BST Swann has driven a sponsored hobnail through his Headingley record. This latest wicket is off a delivery that's perhaps just short of a length and doesn't do a lot, but he comes forward, misses, and it strikes pad then bat, snaffled at silly point by Ronald Bell. 3.20pm BST Bracewell calls McCullum for a single, but his captain's having none of it. And... 3.19pm BST New Zealand are still a way from avoiding the follow-on, here - and the chances are that England will enforce it. The question is whether McCullum tries to whack them there - risky, because he's not facing Eddie Hemmings - or tries to shepherd the tail for as long as possible - risky, because they're the tail. While he thinks about it, Bracewell defends solidly and stolidly enough, and confidently gets himself back on strike to face Swann. 3.14pm BST And we are, you'll be ecstatic to discover, back, bad, bigger, better, faster and more. McCullum is playing Swann fairly confidently now, and making his disciples look a little silly. That's not to say Swann didn't remove them with good deliveries - verily he did - but they batted like they'd never seen off-spin before. They have seen off-spin before. 3.11pm BST Southee smears a smooth drive down the ground for four, then adds another couple two balls later. And then he gets out. And here's Daniel\u2026 3.10pm BST A strange one, that. The original appeal wasn't exactly wholehearted, but Cook saw something in it, pushed ahead with the review and, after a lot of slow-motion replays, is repaid rather handsomely. 3.08pm BST Southee is not out here. Unless he's out. One or the other. It depends on whether the ball hit the pad before it hit the bat, or afterwards. 3.05pm BST I'm afraid Daniel's computer suffered some form of malfunction during that over from Swann. Anyway, 10 runs came off it. That's about all I can tell you. Daniel will be back again with full coverage of the 36th over. Fingers crossed. 3.00pm BST Broad starts well, his opening delivery forcing McCullum to play when he seemed fairly keen to avoid so doing. But his next ball, McCullum chooses to drive, Anderson diving at mid-off to prevent the boundary, reddening his hand in the process. Broad then beats McCullum, finding a little bit of extra pace, and bounce in particular, smacking him on the thigh. A strangulated appeal doth thus ensue.The clock at Headingley is made by Philip Stoner - presumably it perpetually shows tea-time, and is always several hours late. Updated at 3.02pm BST 2.55pm BST Stuart Broad is back into the attack. 2.53pm BST As the players swill, slurp and burp, Simon McMahon is indulging in \"a minor existential crisis\". Well, obviously - what else is to do? \"What,\" he pinpoints, \"is the meaning of the OBO?\"Answer: 17. Updated at 2.54pm BST 2.49pm BST Cook intimates some short stuff by getting a short-leg in close to Southee, who takes four off the first ball when Finn drops short. But when the bouncer comes, he makes a right old performance of getting out of the way. Heads return to hands and hands to head when a yorker foxes him three balls later, allowing him to take two. That's drinks - the Old Mother Black Caps must be hoping for two large gins, two pints of cider, ice in the cider. 2.43pm BST \"It is possible,\" wonders John Tumbridge, \"that Boycott as the current Yorkshire president had had a glass of grape juice or two before partaking in the podcast, he wandered into the TMS commentary box before lunch yesterday and it was suggested by Aggers that the combination of long lunch followed by podcast may not be that a smart move.\"Eminently so, I'd say - I seem to recall reading as much. I'm not sure how a traditional song-and-dance man like Boycott could handle the additional joie de vivre of a couple of glasses of Personality Enhancer. Swann's latest over is total rubbish, he's useless, and McCullum rocks back when he pitches short, cutting hard to the cover boundary.  2.38pm BST Well, there's not much good to be said about the way New Zealand are batting here - apparently, none of them bothered to practice against spin this morning. On the other hand, England are bowling really well, which just goes to show what you can accomplish when you have bowlers. Which sounds a bizarre thing to say, until you remember Capel, Austin, Ilott, Ealham, Cowdrey, Watkinson and ilk.Southee gets off the mark first ball with an outside edge, Finn finding some bounce and making his man hop as he tries to hide behind thin air.  2.34pm BST Swann has three-fer in 12 balls, and is bowling beautifully. New Zealand, on the other hand, are nonsense. 2.32pm BST Swann's first ball to McCullum draws him forward, well away from his body, and he squirts the ball behind him to leg slip-ish, for a single. Next ball, England appeal - for lbw or a catch, they-re unfussed - and not out says the umpire. Review!Updated at 2.33pm BST 2.30pm BST This is another delicious delivery, and very similar to its wicket-taking predecessor. It drifts out, spins in out of the rough, teases open the gate and barrels through it, the bowling equivalent of knock down Ginger.\u00a0Updated at 2.40pm BST 2.28pm BST \"Come on, Dan'l,\" thunders John Starbuck. \"Batters are made up of flour, eggs and water or milk. New Zealand's batsmen aren't that bad. I can't help thinking you're aiming to be a bit PC by not excluding women players. There are no women players in this match so the question doesn't arise.\"Not at all - it's a minor homage to SK Warne.  2.26pm BST Williamson does well to keep Gupthill out of the way for five balls, before he kepplers a single to deep square leg. 2.25pm BST New Zealand need someone to do something. That was a smart bowling change from Alastair Cook. 2.23pm BST Yet another first over wicket for Swann, and what a ball this is, which drifts in and out, pitches outside off, grips, spins, and nails Browlie through the gate.Updated at 2.41pm BST 2.20pm BST Immediately, Swann finds some drift and beats Williamson's outside-edge. Meanwhile, more from the Brad McMillan reality show: \"One of the pleasures of having a 3 year old daughter is afternoon naps. When she sleeps, I sleep - simple. She always seems 'tired' at roughly 2pm on a Sunday, when my wife is at work and, blast, when I fancy a two-hour 'sofa-session.' Unfortunately, I also have an 11 year old upstairs, and I'm fairly sure he's plotting how to disable me as I type!\" Updated at 2.20pm BST 2.18pm BST Swann to take over from Broad - can he take his first Headingley wicket?Updated at 2.30pm BST 2.17pm BST Finn has his top button done up. Me and him are done. And it doesnae say much for his team-mates either - what, exactly, are the Swann-Broad-Bresnan conduct police doing with their time? The batters nab another single each - they've looked a soupcon more comfortable, these last two overs - and I fancy we'll be seeing Anderson shortly.Updated at 2.18pm BST 2.13pm BST Sky show some tape to illustrate just how little naches Taylor gleaned from being hit on the forearm by Finn, and then point out how South Africa mithered him with the same line of attack, helpfully breaking the bone for him. And yet, he still doesn't wear a guard - what a gentleman! No doubt he also attained a third class degree.The batters are finding Broad easier to play than Finn, taking a single each from the first three balls, and then, from the final one, pitches full and watches Williamson attempt a drive, and miss by hectares.  2.07pm BST Steve Finn seems very likeable, despite the Watford thing, but his hair is veering dangerously close to Sco. T. Parker territory. Handy in guaranteeing military success, less so otherwise. Anyway, he's tearing in here, opening with a bouncer that Brownlie only just avoids and forcing him onto the back foot for the rest of the over, which is a maiden. 2.03pm BST Lazy journalism! Brad McMillan emails in to point out that I neglected to credit him when publishing his previous email. \"Since my email publications are clearly anonymous,\" he hurrumphs, \"I'd like to take this opportunity to confirm that Gary Naylor is, indeed, also Rob Smyth.\"That sounds like a film to me. Meanwhile, in cricket, Broad is bowling and Williamson is defending. He's a funny one, Broad - an obvious talent, but the sudden, unpredictable spates of wickets, followed by sustained, predictable spates of not-wickets, makes you wonder if he quite knows what it is that happens when things happen. 2.00pm BST The Black Caps might wish they were in The Mother Black Cap. 1.58pm BST Ooooh and aaaah, extra pace from Finn catches Taylor on the drive, and he drags on. Finn has all three wickets - what a bowlere he is going to be, what a bowler he already is (when it's working for him).Updated at 2.43pm BST 1.56pm BST Finn's first ball is short and wide, and Taylor wastes neither time nor energy in cutting it to the boundary fo fo.Updated at 1.56pm BST 1.54pm BST Athers is not happy with the lack of a third slip, though Botham points out that the last wicket was caught in the gully, which is in place. England cede a leg bye, and then Williamson allows the third delivery to bash his pad, which elicits a minor shout for leg-before, though the ball was missing the stumps by a distance greater than Tony Soprano's proximity to control of New Jersey. 1.50pm BST Finn takes a couple of balls to find his range and then extracts some pace and bounce - I could literally spend all day with Michael Holding making sweet love to the phrase on loop. Taylor does well to fend it off and finagle a single. Then, with his fifth ball, pitched just outside off, he raps Wiliamson on the body, which looks the opposite of fun. Meantime, the thirstiest members of the crowd are singing football songs. It can only be a matter of time before the zane of the beersnake is upon us. 1.45pm BST Up the hill it's FinnUpdated at 1.45pm BST 1.45pm BST Broad probes outside off-stump with his first two deliveries, then slants the third in a touch. His third ball gives Williamson the chance to score, though, further over still, and he steps to leg and turns the ball down towards the fence for two. In the commentary box, they're discussing - guess what! - the length at which Broad should bowl. 1.40pm BST Stuart Broad will start, bowling down the hill... 1.38pm BST Email! \"You have to love Geoffrey Boycott. I caught up with yesterday's play by listening to the daily TMS podcast, and he bestowed us with this gem: 'Yorkshire have produced many great players over the years. Herbert Sutcliffe, Leonard Hutton, Michael Vaughan, myself...' It's funny because its true!\"With added reflexive pronoun for added humility.  1.36pm BST New Zealand are in a bit of a hole here. England's score of 354 - ironically, the exact same number of days as there are in a non-leap lunar year - was only just about par. And with not long at all until lunch, the tourists looked set for a relaxing afternoon on a decent track, the ball doing less than Nick Compton James Anderson wanted it to. Then, the veneer slipped off the Duke, Steve Finn bowled his best spell in a while, and England were in. In five minutes, we'll get know what gets to happen next. 1.30pm BST Afternoon, everyone. Once upon a time, there was nothing more quintessentially, tediously, tautologically British than talking about the weather. But now, there's nothing more quintessentially, tediously, tautologically British than talking about talking about the weather, and soon enough, in these joyous days of avant-garde metahilarity, there'll be nothing more quintessentially, tediously, tautologically British than talking about talking about talking about the weather.Today, after much hankering, we have some nice weather. We also have some nice cricket. Accordingly: please draw your curtains, shut your doors, and put the telly on after the classic bulldog fashion, and settle down for an invigorating afternoon of heat and light avoidance.  1.02pm BST It is lunch. Go and have some lunch. Unless you're in New Zealand, in which case you may consider a bit of kip. 1.02pm BST Taylor has one ball to face and he survives it, though it's pretty darn fierce, and the session ends on a high for England. Finn has been the most dangerous bowler this morning by a distance. Daniel Harris will be here shortly to guide you through the afternoon session. 12.59pm BST That's changed the complexion of the session significantly. That's excellent bowling from Finn, working over the batsman in the first four balls of the over, getting some movement off the seam, tempting the batsman into a drive, and then finally he did, his miscued, and Bell collectyed at gully.Updated at 2.45pm BST 12.54pm BST Broad continues, the highlight of the over being a shot from Rutherford that rumbles towards the boundary where Bairstow receives a massive ovation for picking it up. And being from Yorkshire. Later, Williamson gets off the mark with a fine drive through mid-off for four. Updated at 12.56pm BST 12.49pm BST An excellent delivery, perhaps the best of the innings so far, from Finn, zips across a befuddled Rutherford, who nods his head appreciatively, but some way past the bat. 12.46pm BST Anderson is off, and Broad returns with a change of ends. Rutherford gets a single off the first, and that's yer lot, action-wise. 12.40pm BST And that's a wicket maiden. Finn can't get any more movement than Anderson, but it seems he can find a bit more pace. 12.37pm BST A wicket! An actual, real, proper wicket! A bit of extra bounce from Finn undoes Fulton and finds a leading edge, the ball flying 40 feet in the air before coming back to earth about 10 yards from where it started, where Finn is waiting for it. That's Fulton's best innings of the tour, statistically speaking, but having reached that mark he suddenly looked desperate to get out.Updated at 12.45pm BST 12.34pm BST Anderson, who is showing all external signs of developing a mighty funk about the lack of wickets New Zealand aren't handing to him, gets another go. Things just aren't going his way \u2013 still no swing, and when Fulton totally misjudges a shot and bottom-edges it towards the stumps, the ball obligingly bounces over them and disappears for four. \"Impressive attempt at commentator's curse from TMS, talking about how New Zealand will be looking to make 500 odd runs quickly to get a winning position,\" notes Neil Parkes. \"All out by tea for 160?\" 12.29pm BST More lovely shotmaking, this time Fulton smacking a decent ball through midwicket for four. This is serene stuff. 12.25pm BST Anderson asks Umpire Erasmus to take another look at the ball, and this time it fails its statutory checks and is replaced. So that's a victory of sorts for England. It's the only one they celebrated that over, the most expensive of the day so far \u2013 don't be surprise if this ball is considered out of shape in a few overs' time \u2013 which saw a leg bye, a couple of twos, Rutherford thudding the ball through extra cover for an extremely handsome four and a bouncer that flew so high over Rutherford that a wide should have been called (but wasn't).Rutherford has just hit Jimmy on the rise through extra cover with as dismissive a shot as Ive seen all year.Updated at 12.26pm BST 12.18pm BST Broad is taken off, Finn is brought on, and Fulton smears his second ball through the covers for another four, and but for a diving stop by Root there would have been another boundary two balls later. \"isn\u2019t this the point where there\u2019s a silly dropped catch which will be talked about in dull spells as Fulton and/or Rutherford go on to make hundreds?\" asks Anthony in France. Even a chance of a catch would be nice, please. Don't care if it goes down, just want to be reassured that it's possible. 12.13pm BST Rutherford clearly admired Fulton's boundary in the previous over, because he perfectly replicated the shot at the earliest opportunity, driving the ball between the bowler and mid-off and admiring it as it trundles away to the boundary. And then another, a wider ball cut past gully and away! At which Anderson tells Marais Erasmus that he doesn't like this ball much, and would it be alright if he had another one instead? Erasmus shakes his head and gives him the ball back. If they can't get this ball to move, the Kiwis could have a nice afternoon here. 12.08pm BST Broad causes Fulton some discomfort, with a couple of balls unconvincingly defended by a combination of edges and pads. But in the middle of it all \u2026 a four! A straight ball sent between the bowler and mid on with no little style. \"Just what are you expecting the Enterprise to do?\" ponders John Starbuck, \"Materialise a fielder on the boundary just in time to take a stunning catch? Fat chance of that with these batsmen.\" 12.04pm BST No runs at all from that one. Can we start looking for spaceship-shaped clouds yet? Are there any clouds yet? 12.01pm BST Another over illuminated by just a single single. The bowlers are shying at the stumps, the batsmen are stopping the ball from hitting them. 11.57am BST Rutherford's single from the first ball is all the run-scoring action there is in that over, Fulton thenceforth going defensive. Anderson is bowling well enough, but there seems little sign of an imminent England wicketfest. 11.52am BST The second boundary of the day is not long in coming, Fulton thwacking a straight delivery off his stumps and through mid-on. He gets another couple later on, and generally looks rather untroubled. 11.47am BST The first boundary of the day, and Rutherford knew very little about it, inside-edging the ball across the stumps and away to the rope. 11.43am BST During the innings break Atherton showed us examples from his Dunedin megawhack of how Rutherford profited from deliveries the gave him space outside off stump. Perhaps England were watching, because Broad gave him none there. The last two balls went for singles. 11.38am BST A decent first over, with the promised movement immediately apparent. Anderson finds Fulton's edge with his second ball \u2013 it went straight into the ground and had bounced four or five times before it was fielded at third slip. 11.25am BST That's a smart low catch from Boult, just getting his fingers under the ball after it caught Anderson's outside edge.Updated at 11.32am BST 11.22am BST Finn hits Boult's first ball of the over for two, the second for four, and then misses the third, which sends his off stump cartwheeling around Headingley.Proper tail end innings from Finn: Biff, Bash, Splat. 354-9Updated at 11.49am BST 11.18am BST Swann tries to leave the first ball, fails and gets a couple of runs for his troubles, and then survives another lbw appeal from the last. \"King Egbert (as his name is now accepted to be) of Wessex was Alfred the Great's grandfather and the last of the Bretwaldas (pretty much the English equivalent of the Irish High Kings), becoming such a great ruler about 829. However, there may have been other Eg(g)bert kings as there were plenty of Saxon kingdoms in need of a ruler before then.\" Turns out the school is actually named after a King Ecgbert. Is that the same chap? Anyway, Jess Ennis went there too, so they must be doing something right. 11.14am BST There's a good appeal for lbw against Swann off the second ball, but the umpire is unimpressed. Turns out it would have clipped the top of leg stump. New Zealand have no remaining appeals, and given the umpire's decision it wouldn't have helped them on this occasion anyway. \"I live in West Yorkshire about 30 miles away from Headingley and there are clouds about here, though in a mainly blue sky,\" writes John \"Kettley\" Starbuck. \"At this time of the year, many arise from the contrails of aircraft going to and from Leeds-Bradford and Manchester Airports, so we can expect more later. But remember, you shouldn't allow clouds to get in your way.\" 11.11am BST That leaves Southee to steam in from the other end, and his first ball is horribly off-beam, handing England another free run. Obviously the over improves from there. I suppose it's reassuring for England to see a bit of movement early this morning \u2013 they'll surely be needing it soon enough.Boult already swinging the ball nicely. 14 overs old it is, and about right to get the shine back on. 11.09am BST Southee tempts Prior into a drive, clips an edge and the ball flies obligingly down the throat of Taylor at first slip. Not literally down his throat, though I suppose that would count as being caught if it came down to it. 11.04am BST Trent Boult has the ball for the first over of the day, and each batsman gets a single from it. As a special early-morning bonus, though, the third ball disappears past Swann and down the leg side for four byes.Updated at 11.11am BST 10.58am BST \"I can never get my kings straight,\" writes Bob O'Hara. \"Was King Eggbert before or after King Chickenbert?\" Exceedingly droll. Anyway, the players are coming out. Jerusalem is blasting from the PA system. This is happening. 10.57am BST Consider Phil's question most emphatically answered. Get on yer bike, lad (and anyone else mulling over an impromptu visit to Headingley).Today is going to be hotter than yesterday. Get to Headingley and be part of the Test. Tickets available in all areas. Walk up easy. #EngvNZ 10.48am BST Sky are showing footage of Joe Root's visit to his old school. It is called King Eggbert School. Who is King Eggbert, and why have our beloved royals so harshly turned their back on his fabulous moniker? 10.47am BST Help an OBOer dept: \"They're not responding on the phone at Headingley,\" writes Phil Smith. \"Can anyone tell me if there's any seats there, or if there's any point turning up without a ticket today?\" I don't know, Phil, but this tweet from Yorkshire this morning suggests they're encouraging people without tickets to turn up.Glorious Weather Update: Dry with long sunny periods and only a few patches of cloud. Max 18c Wind W 11mph. No chance of rain. Come along. 10.42am BST \"We bowled pretty nicely in the first session and the last, in the middle session we went missing a little bit. Other than that, we were pretty good,\" says Mike Hesson, New Zealand's head coach. \"I think it was definitely a new ball wicket yesterday. We've got to be really strong in our decision-making. If we can be clear, make good decisions, get through the new ball, it should be a good wicket.\"He does speak very quickly, does Mike Hesson. A tester for my touch-typing skills, that was.Updated at 10.42am BST 10.39am BST There's little chance of spotting an unlikely cloud formation today, because there aren't really any clouds. This is good news and bad news, depending on how you look at it. Anyway, this is what Jonny Bairstow had to say to Sky a few moments ago:\"I think overall it was a pretty good day for us. It's obviously quite a good thing for us, that it was sunny and still swung, that means all our bowlers are still in the game.It was a great ovation [when Joe Root got his century], fantastic to spend some time out in the middle with Joe and to get the crowd behind us.At Headingley you've just got to take a little bit of time to get used to the pitch. They're all slightly different. Once you've played yourself in it becomes generally a good pitch in the afternoon. The key is to watch the ball as close as you can [insert sarky remark about obviousness of above statement here \u2013 ed]. With the consistent swing, that's something you've got to figure into your gameplan. It's somewhere you get value for your shots with the outfield being so quick.\" 10.27am BST So the key questions are: how many more runs will be added by England's tail, or what remains of it? How will New Zealand respond? And are there Klingons on the starboard bow? 10.18am BST I'll be absolutely straight up about this: It's taken me so long to set up this page that I've now got no time to put anything in it before pressing \"launch\". So here's what Mike Selvey wrote about Root for today's Big Paper:Then Root appeared, a slightly diffident figure, and the ground erupted. Standing ovations generally are for greater achievement than the ability to walk from a dressing room to the middle but this was special. Were this a T20 match they would be playing Mark Knopfler's theme music from Local Hero.With the acclaim comes expectation. A part of the move to sell tickets for the match, a struggle for Yorkshire, was predicated on the presence of Root in particular, for what would be his international debut on his home soil. McCullum heaped on the pressure: four slips, two gullies, and a volley of lip. Such things are sent to test temperament and technique in equal measure but in this Root was flawless. He plays late, drives with a bent front knee and a checked stroke, and pulls nicely. When Williamson was expected to fill in some overs until the new ball, Root responded by taking himself through the 70s to his highest Test score by clipping three successive boundaries, the third of them reverse swept. That takes nerve and youthful exuberance.Now the debate will crank up. This is England's last Test before the-series-that-cannot-be-named and while Ashley Giles takes the one-day side through the Champions Trophy, Andy Flower will be planning his strategies. Kevin Pietersen seems certain to return and the clamour for Root \u2013 always destined to open one day \u2013 to move up to partner Cook will intensify.Despite his steadfastness in India and twin centuries in New Zealand, Compton is not making the strongest of cases for himself and will have watched Root and Bairstow with mixed feelings. The figures are stacking up against him.There's more, if you'd like it, here.", "tags": ["England v New Zealand 2013", "England cricket team", "New Zealand cricket team", "Cricket"], "title": "England v New Zealand \u2013 as it happened! | Simon Burnton and Daniel Harris"},{"date": "2013-05-26T18:04:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": " 7.04pm BST I'm afraid I've got to leave, right now. It's been fun. For long periods. Thanks as ever for the emails and stuff. Bye! 7.03pm BST JONATHAN TROTT HITS THE BALL WITH HIS BAT AND SCORES A RUN! Two runs, in fact. It really was sensational stuff. Earlier, Cook grabbed another four. England's captain scored 88 from 132 balls, at 0.67 runs per ball. The other two got 18 from 114 at 0.16 runs per ball. He's been playing one game, the others, another. And that's stumps. 6.59pm BST Southee bowls this one, and Trott, who scored his ninth run from the third ball of the 33rd over, makes absolutely no attempt to score a 10th. We will have one more over tonight. \"The streaker was a bloke who'd come in a suit and just removed his jacket. And his shoes when halfway round his lap of the ground,\" reports Mike Selvey. Does that count as a streak? Is there a minimum amount of disrobing that must be done in order to qualify? That's just a man with no shoes jogging about a bit. 6.54pm BST There's more drama at this end than at Headingley. Daniel has left the building at some speed, so this is Simon taking over again briefly. You'll notice that England scored two runs in that over, and that Cook got them. Wagner bowled it. That's you up to date. 6.49pm BST Southee is back, now bowling down the hill. But Cook sees him coming, and waits for his first ball to arrive on his pads before dismissing it in short order, speeding over the rope for a boundary-four. The next ball, though is a beauty, straightening before making long bacon at his outside edge on its way past.Updated at 6.49pm BST 6.43pm BST Wagner into the attack, and after Cook times one to cover for a single, Trott attempts to reciprocate after the ball hits his pad and squirts to square-leg. He was plenty out with a hit, but the fielder - I saw not who - missed, and we're back to before. 6.40pm BST Guardian Exclusive: the Headingley press box was modelled on the Rubik's snake.Oh, and another maiden.Updated at 6.41pm BST 6.37pm BST Is this yet on the level of those unbearable evening sessions in the 2011 Sri Lanka series? It's getting there. But then Southee drops one right into Cook's slot outside off, and he steps into a drive - for four through the covers. Small pleasures. 6.32pm BST Williamson continues, bowling accurately though without much turn. Trott drops one into the covers for a single, and then Cook flicks one behind that McCullum almost turns into a chance, reading it and bending low in an effort to grab it but connecting with his boot first. Great effort.Updated at 6.33pm BST 6.29pm BST Beersnakes and the construction of are almost becoming interesting - this is some seriously turgid turge. The unwillingness to attack is most curious - if this were a boxing match, England would be warned for passivity, but that's not exactly the point - they've got their hobnails burrowed into the jugular against a demoralised and inferior team, a curious position from which to sing a lullaby. Then, suddenly, after 22 balls without, England score a run - two, noch! Take that. 6.24pm BST Things that are less pervious than Jonathan Trott: 6.23pm BST Southee is keeping it tight, but it's not strictly easy to comprehend what England are at here. With the weather decent tomorrow, but not on Tuesday, you might have thought that they might have thought that it'd be prudent to try and move the game on. Not so.Meanwhile, Michael Lee emails in with another Bouncer, dreamer of television's most fabled dream.Updated at 6.23pm BST 6.18pm BST Southee comes on for Bracewell. 6.17pm BST Marie Miller reckons England didn't enforce the follow-on because \"Chappell is Australian and therefore Cook is keen to pass him\" - referring to how many Test centuries he and Greg have. I cannot imagine that being so - Cook will pass him, and it's hardly a significant milestone, especially to a man who collects them like they're Garbage Pail Kids. 6.13pm BST I once visited a student house in Leeds, and walked into a bedroom to find Headingley sitting outside the window. There can be surer way to ensure a long academic career. Bracewell bundles in as best he can, Cook nurdling a single from the first ball, and the second, a bouncer is called wide. Imagine if bowling a bouncer actually meant bowling a bouncer.Not much happens. Updated at 6.14pm BST 6.05pm BST Poor old T.H.E. Compdog. However, h might yet save himself with some runs for Somerset, and the lack of a viable alternative. Bell is making nae runs at four, so seems unlikely they'll promote him; Root, on the other hand, is making them at five, and untested against the new ball in Tests, so seems unlikely they'll promote him; and Trott's been doing well enough at three so seems unlikely they'll promote him.In the meantime, a streaker is upon us, whom we're forbidden from enjoying. Funny, the stuff we are and aren't allowed to see. Take My Family, for example.Three from the over. Still, my beating heart.Updated at 6.06pm BST 5.59pm BST New Zealand are being gristled into the grind here, and are powerless to do anything about it. Cook, after batting like Sehwag for a short while, has become becalmed, and Trott, incongruous name and all, is minding his own business as only he can. He shoulders arms at the penultimate ball of the over, after Cook fiddled a single to leg, and then steps across and down the pitch to drive Bracewell to long-on for four. Incredible scenes.Updated at 6.01pm BST 5.55pm BST There has been a change in the typing box. In the meantime, England score nae runs, thanks in part to a brilliant diving stop by Wagner at backward-point. 5.53pm BST Trott continues on his unhurried way. That's 21 balls so far for his four runs. Still, he's looking less troubled by it than was Compton. And if anyone dare compare about their entertainment here, this is what fans got before the Coppa Italia footer final, currently being played \u2013 a six-month-old Korean novelty hit, performed behind barriers they could barely see through. No wonder they booed. 5.49pm BST England's lead is at 260, and they are in absolutely no hurry to increase it. Trott, chewing furiously, had to play all but one of Williamson's first five deliveries and hit them a combined, what, 10 feet, before he inside edges the last, gets away with it and runs a single. 5.45pm BST A lovely cover drive brings Cook another boundary. A few balls later New Zealand appeal loudly after the ball goes nowhere near Trott or anything he is wearing or holding. He is not out. 5.41pm BST Two off the over, flicked away by Trott off his pads. Just a reminder that play will continue until 7pm today, because it's sunny and everyone's having fun. 5.38pm BST Compton's innings was a horrorshow, really. Just awkward, like being in an audience watching a horribly unfunny comedian who knows none of his jokes are any good but still has to stand on a stage and say stuff. Anyway, another maiden, from Bracewell to Cook. 5.34pm BST That's yer over \u2013 four dot balls to Compton, then the wicket, then one defended away by Trott.Updated at 5.36pm BST 5.33pm BST The ball clips Compton's bat, and then his pad, and then loops into the air. Rutherford catches, the umpire is nonplussed for a while, everyone knows it was out, New Zealand review it and Compton is indeed out.Updated at 5.33pm BST 5.29pm BST Bracewell comes in, and bowls a maiden to Cook. England's lead is now 252. So, given Tuesday's weather forecast (apocalyptic) when to declare? Or just enjoy the batting practice?Updated at 5.36pm BST 5.24pm BST Southee does well to save a run with a dive to stop Cook's shot on the boundary rope. As a result Cook only gets three, and Compton gets another couple of chances to not score any runs, which he gleefully takes.Updated at 5.36pm BST 5.21pm BST Cook thwacks another boundary through point, bringing up his 50 in 63 balls, nine of them having gone for four. \"I'm aware tis the English way to find something to crit at moments like this, so Compton's stickiness is always going to be the main subject of the day,\" writes Mark Turner, \"but a word about Cook every so often would be appreciated, because he looks in superb fettle. Please?\" He does indeed, but it's the contrast between the two of them that's really fascinating here.Cook has 53 and could actually lap Compo tonight.Updated at 5.24pm BST 5.17pm BST Williamson's third ball keeps low and straight, goes through McCullum's legs and trundles away for four. Then there's a lovely little sweep that goes for four, and a single off the last to keep the strike. Steve Davis then takes a while to decide whether Williamson had bowled five balls or six. \"You just have a sensation, you know when you've come to the end of your over,\" says Michael Holding. Do you really? 5.13pm BST Drinks having been taken, Wagner bowls six times and Compton gets no runs. He does, though, give a glimpse of his mounting discomfort when he flings his bat at a very wide third delivery which he had no business going after. 5.06pm BST Surely if Cook has really changed his match tactics to give Compton the best possible opportunity to play himself back into form, he wouldn't then be spending this innings single-mindedly denying him any opportunity to play himself back into form. Anyway, Compton will have another chance to shine shortly, after Williamson bowled out a maiden to Cook, who has faced precisely twice as many balls as his fellow opener (56). 5.03pm BST A better over from Wagner. Cook gets a single from the last to keep up his strike-hogging. Lots of OBOers looking on the bright side of the follow-on decision, you charitable lot. Highlights include Cook \"giving his stuttering lower order another opportunity to get into their groove\", \"keeping the foot on the fragile neck of NZ and giving Compton and maybe Bell a chance to knock up a useful innings or two\" and \"making hay for a few hours, get a lead of 350-400 and putting a demoralised NZ in again tonight\". 4.59pm BST Williamson has a go at the bowling, and ironic cheers ring out as Compton works the second ball away for a couple, and then more cheers as he gives the fourth similar treatment. \"The decision not to enforce the follow-on has to be a commercial one doesn't it?\" suggests Sean Moore. \"After the first-day wash-out, the powers that be couldn't risk New Zealand being bowled out again this afternoon/evening and missing out on a bumper bank holiday pay-day. Or am I missing something?\" Commercial considerations trumping sporting ones? Impossible, surely. 4.55pm BST A four off Wagner's second ball moves England on to 50, of which Cook has been responsible for 86% at more than a run a ball, a loose delivery by Wagner for 8% and Compton for 6%, at 0.16 runs per ball. 4.52pm BST New Zealand aren't happy with the ball, and get a different one. @JonnyB on Twitter and John Tumbridge on email speculate that the follow-on decision was made to give Compton \"one more opportunity to prove himself as a batter\". Certainly if he plays himself back into form, given the state of play in the match and series, the decision will probably have been worthwhile. Whether that was actually the intention behind it, I really doubt. What if he'd got out cheaply (as he still might)? And the rest of England's batsmen too? 4.46pm BST The contrast between these batsmen is painful. One so smooth, finding gaps. For the other, nothing comes easily. An artist and a labourer. Anyway, that was a maiden. You don't need to be told who was on strike. Meanwhile, Trent Boult has injured his side and is unlikely to bowl again in this match. 4.41pm BST Cook is snarfing everything remotely wide, and when he edges a straight one it zips straight through the rather large gap between second slip and gully and away for four. He's now got 36 from 35 balls. Later, COMPTON GETS A RUN! \"Always hear this trotted out, 'Modern captains tend not to enforce the follow-on.' What kind of explanation is that? We don't do it because it's not done? Call me a pedant, Mike Atherton and others, but sounds to me like a cricketing tautology.\" Certainly the fact that it tends not to be done doesn't change the fact that it's available, and the captain's decision needs to be explained. 4.36pm BST Cook is offered a couple of opportunities to score, and takes them both. Wagner has to change his line after those two, and change it he does \u2013 sending the following ball down the leg side for four byes. Cook grabs a single from the last to keep strike for a third over. Wagner's two overs have gone for 18 runs. \"Are we sure that they knew follow on margin was 150 not 200 because of loss of first day's play,\" asks kbarnes. \"I didn't.\" I guess we won't know for sure until the day is over and a microphone is thrust into someone's face. Surely, though. Surely. 4.32pm BST Mid-on does well to get some fingers to Cook's lovely shot off the first ball, from which England get two, and then Cook gets another three from the last. Compton has been on two runs for rather a long time. \"Re Athers (1st over), the last time England had the chance to enforce, in Wellington, they did so,\" writes Mike Selvey. \"There was bad weather around which did indeed finish off the game. But poor forecast here for Tuesday. This decision smacks rather more of expedience, knowing they aren't going to lose and are up in the series.\" 4.28pm BST Cook doubles England's tally by cutting Wagner's first ball of the innings for four, and then gets another boundary off the third, clipped off his legs through square leg. And so to the highest last-wicket totals. Looking at the 20 highest last-wicket partnerships over the last five years, England have conceded three of them (including the highest, 143 by West Indies last June. Today's effort by Boult and Wagner is No19). Pakistan conceded two, New Zealand one, South Africa four, West Indies two, India two and Sri Lanka four. So not really (though England did concede Nos 21 and 22 as well.Updated at 4.28pm BST 4.23pm BST Another maiden, this time from Southee to Compton. \"I'm wondering if I am oversensitive about this, and therefore seeing something that isn't really there, but do England give up more runs for the last wicket than any other test side?\" asks Jesse Linklater. \"Both Wagner and Boult were described as legitimate 10th/11th batsmen, yet England gave up a 52 run partnership. It seems to happen a lot. Tell me it's only me.\" I will tell you, in just six balls time. 4.19pm BST Boult bowls a maiden over to Cook, who defends one, leaves four and is hit on the pad after being tied up by the other. 4.15pm BST Compton could have done without this. Feeling the pressure, perhaps, he flings his bat at a wide one from Southee and inside-edges it into the ground and horribly close to his stumps. He gets away with it. That was the first ball of the over. The last flies an inch or two past his edge. Uncomfortable. This is an opportunity for him, to lift the pressure or to be submerged beneath it. 4.09pm BST So England, with a lead of 180 and rain forecast for tomorrow, have chosen not to enforce the follow-on. Headingley is echoing to the sound of heads being scratched. \"Modern captains tend not to enforce the follow-on,\" says Mike Atherton. Perhaps. Maybe England want the left-armers to give Swann some deeper, rougher rough to bowl at. Maybe Cook just fancies a knock. Seems to me a truly emphatic victory was there to be taken, and England have not even reached out their hand. Anyway, Trent Boult bowls fast and straight and both openers get a single.New Zealand all out for 174. 180 behind but England going to bat again. Cant think why. 3.52pm BST Well, New Zealand have accomplished what we thought was impossible, and rivaled the laughable, cowardly, lame, miserable, spineless collapse of the first test with another equally august. Well, done!England, though, did well to ride a ropey start, and bowled really well this afternoon. In particular, Finn can be pleased with his efforts, first locating and then sustaining his rhythm, after which Swann swanned in and through the middle order, with vicious, pecking, cackling aggression. If I were an Australian left-armer, I'd be bowling in my moccasins through the Ashes to restrict the rough, because their batsmen don't look equipped to handle him.Anyway, that's tea.Updated at 4.10pm BST 3.47pm BST Wagner charges again and misses. Anderson hits. England are not enforcing the following on. My face is doing a confused face. A confused face mixed with a vex-up face. 3.45pm BST Welcome to the game, Bozo! Wagner trots down the track and slices a short ball over cover. That's the fifty partnership, in 24 balls. New Zealand are hustlers. 3.44pm BST Jimmy Anderson comes on. 3.43pm BST As Boult charges Swann then retreats and dabs him for four, Janet Keyte emails in on the meaning of the meaning of life. Affronted, Boult whams Swann down the ground and over long-off for six, then another to long-on. But existential investigation stops for no rabbit, thus: \"THE MEANING OF THE OBO - WHY 17?,\" she shrieks, \"other, than, I suppose, to provoke this sort of response. Why not 42 ? which is favoured not only by Douglas Adams but also by Fred Hoyle. Or 19 ?? (see yesterday's thread on cricket-related songs).If ever you ask someone to come up with a random number, my scientific inquiry can reveal that it is always seventeen, and thus reflects the unpredictable nature of the universe. Consider humanity, for example. Updated at 3.43pm BST 3.39pm BST Broad is clearly fancying himself to polish this off, and is less than gruntled when Wagner edges him through behind for four. For reasons known best to whoever be the knowers of reason, England have over--populated the covers and under-populated the slips. The consequence of this is one more boundary-four, and Broad is gesticulating for a third man. He receives a third slip instead, which is a risk - both Boult and Wagner are known for their flowing drives, most particularly on the off-side. Accordingly, Wagner teases them by flinging bat at ball and connecting, sending the ball down to the fence at square-leg. Oooh, and there's another, this time through the covers. That's 19 from the over, plus one germinating temper. 3.33pm BST Boult's had as much as he can stands and he can't stands no more, clouting Swann from outside off to long-on, scoring a boundary six. Otherwise, nothing happens. 3.31pm BST Wagner adds four to the total via a thick outside edge, and Cook returns \u2013 he may, it is thought, have taken instruction on what to do. Well, says Rashi. Rashbam thinks he was checking on Anderson, who's off the field.Updated at 4.11pm BST 3.29pm BST Cook runs off, which suggets England will bat again. Curious behaviour, given the weather forecast. Then, Boult jabs at a short ball and Root gets a hand to it at short leg, but can't palm it up or snaffle it first up.Updated at 3.32pm BST 3.26pm BST McCullum looks back in disgust, as Broad bowls a perfect delivery - full, bouncy, and destined for the top of off. Deciding he'd best drive, when he'd best not, the ball gets predictably big on him, and he edges a straightforward catch behind. Updated at 3.27pm BST 3.23pm BST This is some risible risibility risibilising right here. 3.22pm BST Swann has driven a sponsored hobnail through his Headingley record. This latest wicket is off a delivery that's perhaps just short of a length and doesn't do a lot, but he comes forward, misses, and it strikes pad then bat, snaffled at silly point by Ronald Bell. 3.20pm BST Bracewell calls McCullum for a single, but his captain's having none of it. And... 3.19pm BST New Zealand are still a way from avoiding the follow-on, here - and the chances are that England will enforce it. The question is whether McCullum tries to whack them there - risky, because he's not facing Eddie Hemmings - or tries to shepherd the tail for as long as possible - risky, because they're the tail. While he thinks about it, Bracewell defends solidly and stolidly enough, and confidently gets himself back on strike to face Swann. 3.14pm BST And we are, you'll be ecstatic to discover, back, bad, bigger, better, faster and more. McCullum is playing Swann fairly confidently now, and making his disciples look a little silly. That's not to say Swann didn't remove them with good deliveries - verily he did - but they batted like they'd never seen off-spin before. They have seen off-spin before. 3.11pm BST Southee smears a smooth drive down the ground for four, then adds another couple two balls later. And then he gets out. And here's Daniel\u2026 3.10pm BST A strange one, that. The original appeal wasn't exactly wholehearted, but Cook saw something in it, pushed ahead with the review and, after a lot of slow-motion replays, is repaid rather handsomely. 3.08pm BST Southee is not out here. Unless he's out. One or the other. It depends on whether the ball hit the pad before it hit the bat, or afterwards. 3.05pm BST I'm afraid Daniel's computer suffered some form of malfunction during that over from Swann. Anyway, 10 runs came off it. That's about all I can tell you. Daniel will be back again with full coverage of the 36th over. Fingers crossed. 3.00pm BST Broad starts well, his opening delivery forcing McCullum to play when he seemed fairly keen to avoid so doing. But his next ball, McCullum chooses to drive, Anderson diving at mid-off to prevent the boundary, reddening his hand in the process. Broad then beats McCullum, finding a little bit of extra pace, and bounce in particular, smacking him on the thigh. A strangulated appeal doth thus ensue.The clock at Headingley is made by Philip Stoner - presumably it perpetually shows tea-time, and is always several hours late. Updated at 3.02pm BST 2.55pm BST Stuart Broad is back into the attack. 2.53pm BST As the players swill, slurp and burp, Simon McMahon is indulging in \"a minor existential crisis\". Well, obviously - what else is to do? \"What,\" he pinpoints, \"is the meaning of the OBO?\"Answer: 17. Updated at 2.54pm BST 2.49pm BST Cook intimates some short stuff by getting a short-leg in close to Southee, who takes four off the first ball when Finn drops short. But when the bouncer comes, he makes a right old performance of getting out of the way. Heads return to hands and hands to head when a yorker foxes him three balls later, allowing him to take two. That's drinks - the Old Mother Black Caps must be hoping for two large gins, two pints of cider, ice in the cider. 2.43pm BST \"It is possible,\" wonders John Tumbridge, \"that Boycott as the current Yorkshire president had had a glass of grape juice or two before partaking in the podcast, he wandered into the TMS commentary box before lunch yesterday and it was suggested by Aggers that the combination of long lunch followed by podcast may not be that a smart move.\"Eminently so, I'd say - I seem to recall reading as much. I'm not sure how a traditional song-and-dance man like Boycott could handle the additional joie de vivre of a couple of glasses of Personality Enhancer. Swann's latest over is total rubbish, he's useless, and McCullum rocks back when he pitches short, cutting hard to the cover boundary.  2.38pm BST Well, there's not much good to be said about the way New Zealand are batting here - apparently, none of them bothered to practice against spin this morning. On the other hand, England are bowling really well, which just goes to show what you can accomplish when you have bowlers. Which sounds a bizarre thing to say, until you remember Capel, Austin, Ilott, Ealham, Cowdrey, Watkinson and ilk.Southee gets off the mark first ball with an outside edge, Finn finding some bounce and making his man hop as he tries to hide behind thin air.  2.34pm BST Swann has three-fer in 12 balls, and is bowling beautifully. New Zealand, on the other hand, are nonsense. 2.32pm BST Swann's first ball to McCullum draws him forward, well away from his body, and he squirts the ball behind him to leg slip-ish, for a single. Next ball, England appeal - for lbw or a catch, they-re unfussed - and not out says the umpire. Review!Updated at 2.33pm BST 2.30pm BST This is another delicious delivery, and very similar to its wicket-taking predecessor. It drifts out, spins in out of the rough, teases open the gate and barrels through it, the bowling equivalent of knock down Ginger.\u00a0Updated at 2.40pm BST 2.28pm BST \"Come on, Dan'l,\" thunders John Starbuck. \"Batters are made up of flour, eggs and water or milk. New Zealand's batsmen aren't that bad. I can't help thinking you're aiming to be a bit PC by not excluding women players. There are no women players in this match so the question doesn't arise.\"Not at all - it's a minor homage to SK Warne.  2.26pm BST Williamson does well to keep Gupthill out of the way for five balls, before he kepplers a single to deep square leg. 2.25pm BST New Zealand need someone to do something. That was a smart bowling change from Alastair Cook. 2.23pm BST Yet another first over wicket for Swann, and what a ball this is, which drifts in and out, pitches outside off, grips, spins, and nails Browlie through the gate.Updated at 2.41pm BST 2.20pm BST Immediately, Swann finds some drift and beats Williamson's outside-edge. Meanwhile, more from the Brad McMillan reality show: \"One of the pleasures of having a 3 year old daughter is afternoon naps. When she sleeps, I sleep - simple. She always seems 'tired' at roughly 2pm on a Sunday, when my wife is at work and, blast, when I fancy a two-hour 'sofa-session.' Unfortunately, I also have an 11 year old upstairs, and I'm fairly sure he's plotting how to disable me as I type!\" Updated at 2.20pm BST 2.18pm BST Swann to take over from Broad - can he take his first Headingley wicket?Updated at 2.30pm BST 2.17pm BST Finn has his top button done up. Me and him are done. And it doesnae say much for his team-mates either - what, exactly, are the Swann-Broad-Bresnan conduct police doing with their time? The batters nab another single each - they've looked a soupcon more comfortable, these last two overs - and I fancy we'll be seeing Anderson shortly.Updated at 2.18pm BST 2.13pm BST Sky show some tape to illustrate just how little naches Taylor gleaned from being hit on the forearm by Finn, and then point out how South Africa mithered him with the same line of attack, helpfully breaking the bone for him. And yet, he still doesn't wear a guard - what a gentleman! No doubt he also attained a third class degree.The batters are finding Broad easier to play than Finn, taking a single each from the first three balls, and then, from the final one, pitches full and watches Williamson attempt a drive, and miss by hectares.  2.07pm BST Steve Finn seems very likeable, despite the Watford thing, but his hair is veering dangerously close to Sco. T. Parker territory. Handy in guaranteeing military success, less so otherwise. Anyway, he's tearing in here, opening with a bouncer that Brownlie only just avoids and forcing him onto the back foot for the rest of the over, which is a maiden. 2.03pm BST Lazy journalism! Brad McMillan emails in to point out that I neglected to credit him when publishing his previous email. \"Since my email publications are clearly anonymous,\" he hurrumphs, \"I'd like to take this opportunity to confirm that Gary Naylor is, indeed, also Rob Smyth.\"That sounds like a film to me. Meanwhile, in cricket, Broad is bowling and Williamson is defending. He's a funny one, Broad - an obvious talent, but the sudden, unpredictable spates of wickets, followed by sustained, predictable spates of not-wickets, makes you wonder if he quite knows what it is that happens when things happen. 2.00pm BST The Black Caps might wish they were in The Mother Black Cap. 1.58pm BST Ooooh and aaaah, extra pace from Finn catches Taylor on the drive, and he drags on. Finn has all three wickets - what a bowlere he is going to be, what a bowler he already is (when it's working for him).Updated at 2.43pm BST 1.56pm BST Finn's first ball is short and wide, and Taylor wastes neither time nor energy in cutting it to the boundary fo fo.Updated at 1.56pm BST 1.54pm BST Athers is not happy with the lack of a third slip, though Botham points out that the last wicket was caught in the gully, which is in place. England cede a leg bye, and then Williamson allows the third delivery to bash his pad, which elicits a minor shout for leg-before, though the ball was missing the stumps by a distance greater than Tony Soprano's proximity to control of New Jersey. 1.50pm BST Finn takes a couple of balls to find his range and then extracts some pace and bounce - I could literally spend all day with Michael Holding making sweet love to the phrase on loop. Taylor does well to fend it off and finagle a single. Then, with his fifth ball, pitched just outside off, he raps Wiliamson on the body, which looks the opposite of fun. Meantime, the thirstiest members of the crowd are singing football songs. It can only be a matter of time before the zane of the beersnake is upon us. 1.45pm BST Up the hill it's FinnUpdated at 1.45pm BST 1.45pm BST Broad probes outside off-stump with his first two deliveries, then slants the third in a touch. His third ball gives Williamson the chance to score, though, further over still, and he steps to leg and turns the ball down towards the fence for two. In the commentary box, they're discussing - guess what! - the length at which Broad should bowl. 1.40pm BST Stuart Broad will start, bowling down the hill... 1.38pm BST Email! \"You have to love Geoffrey Boycott. I caught up with yesterday's play by listening to the daily TMS podcast, and he bestowed us with this gem: 'Yorkshire have produced many great players over the years. Herbert Sutcliffe, Leonard Hutton, Michael Vaughan, myself...' It's funny because its true!\"With added reflexive pronoun for added humility.  1.36pm BST New Zealand are in a bit of a hole here. England's score of 354 - ironically, the exact same number of days as there are in a non-leap lunar year - was only just about par. And with not long at all until lunch, the tourists looked set for a relaxing afternoon on a decent track, the ball doing less than Nick Compton James Anderson wanted it to. Then, the veneer slipped off the Duke, Steve Finn bowled his best spell in a while, and England were in. In five minutes, we'll get know what gets to happen next. 1.30pm BST Afternoon, everyone. Once upon a time, there was nothing more quintessentially, tediously, tautologically British than talking about the weather. But now, there's nothing more quintessentially, tediously, tautologically British than talking about talking about the weather, and soon enough, in these joyous days of avant-garde metahilarity, there'll be nothing more quintessentially, tediously, tautologically British than talking about talking about talking about the weather.Today, after much hankering, we have some nice weather. We also have some nice cricket. Accordingly: please draw your curtains, shut your doors, and put the telly on after the classic bulldog fashion, and settle down for an invigorating afternoon of heat and light avoidance.  1.02pm BST It is lunch. Go and have some lunch. Unless you're in New Zealand, in which case you may consider a bit of kip. 1.02pm BST Taylor has one ball to face and he survives it, though it's pretty darn fierce, and the session ends on a high for England. Finn has been the most dangerous bowler this morning by a distance. Daniel Harris will be here shortly to guide you through the afternoon session. 12.59pm BST That's changed the complexion of the session significantly. That's excellent bowling from Finn, working over the batsman in the first four balls of the over, getting some movement off the seam, tempting the batsman into a drive, and then finally he did, his miscued, and Bell collectyed at gully.Updated at 2.45pm BST 12.54pm BST Broad continues, the highlight of the over being a shot from Rutherford that rumbles towards the boundary where Bairstow receives a massive ovation for picking it up. And being from Yorkshire. Later, Williamson gets off the mark with a fine drive through mid-off for four. Updated at 12.56pm BST 12.49pm BST An excellent delivery, perhaps the best of the innings so far, from Finn, zips across a befuddled Rutherford, who nods his head appreciatively, but some way past the bat. 12.46pm BST Anderson is off, and Broad returns with a change of ends. Rutherford gets a single off the first, and that's yer lot, action-wise. 12.40pm BST And that's a wicket maiden. Finn can't get any more movement than Anderson, but it seems he can find a bit more pace. 12.37pm BST A wicket! An actual, real, proper wicket! A bit of extra bounce from Finn undoes Fulton and finds a leading edge, the ball flying 40 feet in the air before coming back to earth about 10 yards from where it started, where Finn is waiting for it. That's Fulton's best innings of the tour, statistically speaking, but having reached that mark he suddenly looked desperate to get out.Updated at 12.45pm BST 12.34pm BST Anderson, who is showing all external signs of developing a mighty funk about the lack of wickets New Zealand aren't handing to him, gets another go. Things just aren't going his way \u2013 still no swing, and when Fulton totally misjudges a shot and bottom-edges it towards the stumps, the ball obligingly bounces over them and disappears for four. \"Impressive attempt at commentator's curse from TMS, talking about how New Zealand will be looking to make 500 odd runs quickly to get a winning position,\" notes Neil Parkes. \"All out by tea for 160?\" 12.29pm BST More lovely shotmaking, this time Fulton smacking a decent ball through midwicket for four. This is serene stuff. 12.25pm BST Anderson asks Umpire Erasmus to take another look at the ball, and this time it fails its statutory checks and is replaced. So that's a victory of sorts for England. It's the only one they celebrated that over, the most expensive of the day so far \u2013 don't be surprise if this ball is considered out of shape in a few overs' time \u2013 which saw a leg bye, a couple of twos, Rutherford thudding the ball through extra cover for an extremely handsome four and a bouncer that flew so high over Rutherford that a wide should have been called (but wasn't).Rutherford has just hit Jimmy on the rise through extra cover with as dismissive a shot as Ive seen all year.Updated at 12.26pm BST 12.18pm BST Broad is taken off, Finn is brought on, and Fulton smears his second ball through the covers for another four, and but for a diving stop by Root there would have been another boundary two balls later. \"isn\u2019t this the point where there\u2019s a silly dropped catch which will be talked about in dull spells as Fulton and/or Rutherford go on to make hundreds?\" asks Anthony in France. Even a chance of a catch would be nice, please. Don't care if it goes down, just want to be reassured that it's possible. 12.13pm BST Rutherford clearly admired Fulton's boundary in the previous over, because he perfectly replicated the shot at the earliest opportunity, driving the ball between the bowler and mid-off and admiring it as it trundles away to the boundary. And then another, a wider ball cut past gully and away! At which Anderson tells Marais Erasmus that he doesn't like this ball much, and would it be alright if he had another one instead? Erasmus shakes his head and gives him the ball back. If they can't get this ball to move, the Kiwis could have a nice afternoon here. 12.08pm BST Broad causes Fulton some discomfort, with a couple of balls unconvincingly defended by a combination of edges and pads. But in the middle of it all \u2026 a four! A straight ball sent between the bowler and mid on with no little style. \"Just what are you expecting the Enterprise to do?\" ponders John Starbuck, \"Materialise a fielder on the boundary just in time to take a stunning catch? Fat chance of that with these batsmen.\" 12.04pm BST No runs at all from that one. Can we start looking for spaceship-shaped clouds yet? Are there any clouds yet? 12.01pm BST Another over illuminated by just a single single. The bowlers are shying at the stumps, the batsmen are stopping the ball from hitting them. 11.57am BST Rutherford's single from the first ball is all the run-scoring action there is in that over, Fulton thenceforth going defensive. Anderson is bowling well enough, but there seems little sign of an imminent England wicketfest. 11.52am BST The second boundary of the day is not long in coming, Fulton thwacking a straight delivery off his stumps and through mid-on. He gets another couple later on, and generally looks rather untroubled. 11.47am BST The first boundary of the day, and Rutherford knew very little about it, inside-edging the ball across the stumps and away to the rope. 11.43am BST During the innings break Atherton showed us examples from his Dunedin megawhack of how Rutherford profited from deliveries the gave him space outside off stump. Perhaps England were watching, because Broad gave him none there. The last two balls went for singles. 11.38am BST A decent first over, with the promised movement immediately apparent. Anderson finds Fulton's edge with his second ball \u2013 it went straight into the ground and had bounced four or five times before it was fielded at third slip. 11.25am BST That's a smart low catch from Boult, just getting his fingers under the ball after it caught Anderson's outside edge.Updated at 11.32am BST 11.22am BST Finn hits Boult's first ball of the over for two, the second for four, and then misses the third, which sends his off stump cartwheeling around Headingley.Proper tail end innings from Finn: Biff, Bash, Splat. 354-9Updated at 11.49am BST 11.18am BST Swann tries to leave the first ball, fails and gets a couple of runs for his troubles, and then survives another lbw appeal from the last. \"King Egbert (as his name is now accepted to be) of Wessex was Alfred the Great's grandfather and the last of the Bretwaldas (pretty much the English equivalent of the Irish High Kings), becoming such a great ruler about 829. However, there may have been other Eg(g)bert kings as there were plenty of Saxon kingdoms in need of a ruler before then.\" Turns out the school is actually named after a King Ecgbert. Is that the same chap? Anyway, Jess Ennis went there too, so they must be doing something right. 11.14am BST There's a good appeal for lbw against Swann off the second ball, but the umpire is unimpressed. Turns out it would have clipped the top of leg stump. New Zealand have no remaining appeals, and given the umpire's decision it wouldn't have helped them on this occasion anyway. \"I live in West Yorkshire about 30 miles away from Headingley and there are clouds about here, though in a mainly blue sky,\" writes John \"Kettley\" Starbuck. \"At this time of the year, many arise from the contrails of aircraft going to and from Leeds-Bradford and Manchester Airports, so we can expect more later. But remember, you shouldn't allow clouds to get in your way.\" 11.11am BST That leaves Southee to steam in from the other end, and his first ball is horribly off-beam, handing England another free run. Obviously the over improves from there. I suppose it's reassuring for England to see a bit of movement early this morning \u2013 they'll surely be needing it soon enough.Boult already swinging the ball nicely. 14 overs old it is, and about right to get the shine back on. 11.09am BST Southee tempts Prior into a drive, clips an edge and the ball flies obligingly down the throat of Taylor at first slip. Not literally down his throat, though I suppose that would count as being caught if it came down to it. 11.04am BST Trent Boult has the ball for the first over of the day, and each batsman gets a single from it. As a special early-morning bonus, though, the third ball disappears past Swann and down the leg side for four byes.Updated at 11.11am BST 10.58am BST \"I can never get my kings straight,\" writes Bob O'Hara. \"Was King Eggbert before or after King Chickenbert?\" Exceedingly droll. Anyway, the players are coming out. Jerusalem is blasting from the PA system. This is happening. 10.57am BST Consider Phil's question most emphatically answered. Get on yer bike, lad (and anyone else mulling over an impromptu visit to Headingley).Today is going to be hotter than yesterday. Get to Headingley and be part of the Test. Tickets available in all areas. Walk up easy. #EngvNZ 10.48am BST Sky are showing footage of Joe Root's visit to his old school. It is called King Eggbert School. Who is King Eggbert, and why have our beloved royals so harshly turned their back on his fabulous moniker? 10.47am BST Help an OBOer dept: \"They're not responding on the phone at Headingley,\" writes Phil Smith. \"Can anyone tell me if there's any seats there, or if there's any point turning up without a ticket today?\" I don't know, Phil, but this tweet from Yorkshire this morning suggests they're encouraging people without tickets to turn up.Glorious Weather Update: Dry with long sunny periods and only a few patches of cloud. Max 18c Wind W 11mph. No chance of rain. Come along. 10.42am BST \"We bowled pretty nicely in the first session and the last, in the middle session we went missing a little bit. Other than that, we were pretty good,\" says Mike Hesson, New Zealand's head coach. \"I think it was definitely a new ball wicket yesterday. We've got to be really strong in our decision-making. If we can be clear, make good decisions, get through the new ball, it should be a good wicket.\"He does speak very quickly, does Mike Hesson. A tester for my touch-typing skills, that was.Updated at 10.42am BST 10.39am BST There's little chance of spotting an unlikely cloud formation today, because there aren't really any clouds. This is good news and bad news, depending on how you look at it. Anyway, this is what Jonny Bairstow had to say to Sky a few moments ago:\"I think overall it was a pretty good day for us. It's obviously quite a good thing for us, that it was sunny and still swung, that means all our bowlers are still in the game.It was a great ovation [when Joe Root got his century], fantastic to spend some time out in the middle with Joe and to get the crowd behind us.At Headingley you've just got to take a little bit of time to get used to the pitch. They're all slightly different. Once you've played yourself in it becomes generally a good pitch in the afternoon. The key is to watch the ball as close as you can [insert sarky remark about obviousness of above statement here \u2013 ed]. With the consistent swing, that's something you've got to figure into your gameplan. It's somewhere you get value for your shots with the outfield being so quick.\" 10.27am BST So the key questions are: how many more runs will be added by England's tail, or what remains of it? How will New Zealand respond? And are there Klingons on the starboard bow? 10.18am BST I'll be absolutely straight up about this: It's taken me so long to set up this page that I've now got no time to put anything in it before pressing \"launch\". So here's what Mike Selvey wrote about Root for today's Big Paper:Then Root appeared, a slightly diffident figure, and the ground erupted. Standing ovations generally are for greater achievement than the ability to walk from a dressing room to the middle but this was special. Were this a T20 match they would be playing Mark Knopfler's theme music from Local Hero.With the acclaim comes expectation. A part of the move to sell tickets for the match, a struggle for Yorkshire, was predicated on the presence of Root in particular, for what would be his international debut on his home soil. McCullum heaped on the pressure: four slips, two gullies, and a volley of lip. Such things are sent to test temperament and technique in equal measure but in this Root was flawless. He plays late, drives with a bent front knee and a checked stroke, and pulls nicely. When Williamson was expected to fill in some overs until the new ball, Root responded by taking himself through the 70s to his highest Test score by clipping three successive boundaries, the third of them reverse swept. That takes nerve and youthful exuberance.Now the debate will crank up. This is England's last Test before the-series-that-cannot-be-named and while Ashley Giles takes the one-day side through the Champions Trophy, Andy Flower will be planning his strategies. Kevin Pietersen seems certain to return and the clamour for Root \u2013 always destined to open one day \u2013 to move up to partner Cook will intensify.Despite his steadfastness in India and twin centuries in New Zealand, Compton is not making the strongest of cases for himself and will have watched Root and Bairstow with mixed feelings. The figures are stacking up against him.There's more, if you'd like it, here.", "tags": ["England v New Zealand 2013", "England cricket team", "New Zealand cricket team", "Cricket"], "title": "England v New Zealand \u2013 as it happened! | Simon Burnton and Daniel Harris"},{"date": "2013-06-07T20:00:05Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "It was beginning to feel as if New Zealand's national emblem wasn't the silver fern, but the disclaimer form. The frequent signing away of liability for life and limb began shortly after I\u00a0disembarked from a 26-hour flight from London to Auckland. Someone suggested that the best way to get rid of any long-haul cobwebs might be to take a lift to the top of the city's 328m Sky Tower (adults \u00a315), then base-jump off it (on a wire). I did, and two weeks of starting the day with \"Read this and sign here\" had begun.I'm not an adrenaline junkie by nature and I've never got a kick out of danger \u2013 I once chickened out of the Black Hole waterslide at Minehead Butlins \u2013 so it was fitting that I should start a fortnight dedicated to exploring new backpacking experiences by doing something terrifying, simply because I\u00a0was too exhausted to feel afraid.In the end, I landed at the foot of the Sky Tower, giddy with survival, went straight back up in the lift and jumped off it again. It turns out this adrenaline stuff is addictive. So much so, in fact, that entire towns and cities are given over to the business of thrill-seeking.I didn't take a gap year, but I have heard plenty of stories about doing something reckless in search of a rush, and New Zealand caters to such whims in all sorts of ways, from skydiving to bungee jumping to that strange practice of mimicking a giant gerbil in a plastic ball, called \"zorbing\". I\u00a0spent some days travelling with the Stray Travel tour, a hop-on, hop-off mini-coach service, which meanders up and down the country collecting and losing backpackers along the way. It's relatively cheap, so perfect for those on a budget, and the sheer variety of its travellers was staggering: from European to American to Asian, from student to professional, from 21 to 40, it was an amiable jumble that overturned my preconception of the uni-lad gap-year cliche. The only thing we all had in common, in fact, was a shared desire to wriggle out of our comfort zones.Three hours south of Auckland, near the centre of the North Island, are the towns of Taupo and Rotorua. They're about 80km apart and both littered with companies offering adventures to adventure-hunters. It's worth stopping by Taupo's Huka Falls for the jet boat (), which skips and lurches across the Waikato river with a series of sharp 360-degree spins, before darting close to the Falls themselves. It's like being a stone skimmed across water, and it's soggy, exhilarating fun.Next door we found the Huka Prawn Park, \"the world's only geothermal prawn farm\", which also has a theme park element, helmed by a man-sized prawn called Shawn The Prawn \u2026 one for kitsch enthusiasts.But the newest experience to hit Rotorua is a forward-thinking combination of eco-tourism and old-fashioned thrills. Rotorua Canopy Tours are billed as a native forest canopy zipline tour, which is a wordy way of saying that you fly through the trees like a tui, though with panicked screaming taking the place of beautiful birdsong. The full circuit lasts for around three hours, and kicks off with a short walk through the Mamaku plateau forest, during which time the guides explain what they're all about, which is mostly\u00a0conservation of native bird species, which are perpetually under threat from non-native mammals such as rats, stoats and possums. If it sounds dry or\u00a0dull, it isn't: this is a strikingly pretty\u00a0piece of woodland, its plantlife\u00a0and avian inhabitants are spectacular, and the guides are so clearly full of passion for the project that it's hard not to get swept up in their enthusiasm.After the short walk-and-talk, it's time to jump off something, as, it seems, is often the way in this country. In this instance the \"flying fox\" experience involves zipwiring between a series of wooden platforms at increasing heights, and across increasing widths, though this is a relatively gentle experience, at least until the final jump.\"We've got a surprise for you,\" our guide (and Canopy Tours founder) James Fitzgerald grinned, before hoisting me into the unknown. About halfway across that final ride, the floor of the forest suddenly drops away, and it feels as if you're hundreds of feet in the air, dangling from a cable, soaring through the tops of the trees. I had a funny urge to flap my arms, which, I suppose, could be a sneaky conservation tactic: avian empathy. Everyone in our group felt invigorated by the semi-flying and liked cute little possums that little bit less.The Stray bus took us further south to Blue Duck Station at Whakahoro, a farm at the end of hours of winding track in Whanganui national park. Its owner and manager, Dan Steele, is another passionate conservationist with a\u00a0loathing for introduced predators, and most of its staff are visitors who ended up staying. It's easy to see why. As well as a \"bush safari\", it offers clay-pigeon shooting, mountain biking, hunting (rabbits caught are stewed in the cafe), kayaking and tramping, though ironically, the only time that disclaimer form flashed in front of my eyes was when my companion's horse trotted curiously close to what turned out to be the edge of a staggeringly high ravine. It had obviously read the T&Cs, however, because eventually it turned and ambled back to the road.By this point, I was confident that I could conquer my fears on a near-professional level. I'm not scared of heights (hence all the jumping) but for a long time I was terrified of planes, and it took a fear-of-flying course and a lot of determination to get me anywhere near one. Though I'm almost cured, I still get the occasional flash of nerves, so naturally I decided a skydive (Able Tasman Skydive, skydive.co.nz; Tandem skydives from \u00a3130) might be the thing to knock it on the head once and for all.As we flew to 5,000m above the Abel Tasman national park (doc.govt.nz), I was not so sure about this self-prescribed therapeutic experience, but, as they say, there's only one way down. So, I got strapped to my jump partner Chris and we tumbled out of the door and fell through the air for 70 of the longest seconds of my life.\"You can relax now \u2013 the parachute's opened so that's good,\" he said, with typical Kiwi understatement. It wasn't\u00a0just the biggest buzz of the fortnight \u2013 it was the most thrilling experience of my life. I was high on it for the rest of the trip. Even now, when something feels insurmountable, I remember how it felt to sit near the exit of a tiny plane and see the North and South Islands thousands of feet below.So, Minehead Butlins, I think I'm finally ready to take you on.", "tags": ["Backpacking holidays", "Adventure travel", "New Zealand holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Budget travel", "Travel"], "title": "Backpacking in New Zealand: adventure activities hit new heights"},{"date": "2013-08-16T04:06:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A severe 6.6 magnitude earthquake has hit New Zealand's South Island, close to the capital Wellington, followed by a series of aftershocks ranging from 2.0 up to a severe 6.0.The quake (earlier reported to be 6.2), around 10km south east of Seddon, was felt across large parts of the country and left residents feeling unnerved but reportedly uninjured, as strong aftershocks continue to rattle the region.The shallow quake was felt as far south as Dunedin, and in Auckland in the north. There is no tsunami warning for the region.GeoNet says the first quake was recorded at 2.31pm local time at a depth of 8km. The aftershock measuring 6.0 was initially recorded as 6.3 shortly after 5.30pm local time before being downgraded.Dr James Goff, leader of the tsunami and natural hazards research group at the University of New South Wales, said large aftershocks \"can happen\".\"In the New Zealand context and in other major earthquakes around the world you can get some pretty big ones, and you'd expect to have a lot more of the smaller aftershocks but you will get a big one every now and again as well,\" said Goff.There were reports of a house collapse as well as other homes damaged in the Marlborough region, and stuff.co.nz reported landslides in nearby Ward.New Zealanders were quick to jump on social media, to let friends and family know they were safe.The Australian Associated Press reported around 2,500 homes without power in the Wellington region; however, most were restored within the hour.Wellington Free Ambulance service told AAP they had received a spike in calls but could not confirm any injuries, and the fire service responded to a few calls from alarms tripped by the quake and some people stuck in lifts.There were also reports of power lines brought down in the Seddon area.People were leaving Wellington in large numbers as many office workers were sent home, resulting in heavy traffic and buses reportedly full, leaving large queues.Keep calm #wellington #respect each other take your time! pic.twitter.com/xTClcEF9a7\u2014 Dan Piper (@danpipernz) August 16, 2013  Buses are still running in central Wellington but there are massive queues. More than 100 people waiting at one stop on Willis St\u2014 RadioLIVE Newsroom (@LIVENewsDesk) August 16, 2013Cabinet minister Steven Joyce tweeted that the famous \"beehive\" parliament building was \"wobbling around like a jelly, but all ok\".Train services in Wellington and Marlborough regions were halted for at least four to six hours while tracks were inspected and Wellington airport was momentarily closed.Some universities closed their campuses as a precautionary measure.The Australian high commission in Wellington also closed their office, citing \"circumstances beyond our control\".The New Zealand dollar fell almost half a cent against the US dollar, and trading on the New Zealand stock exchange has been temporarily halted.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Earthquakes", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand earthquake hits near Wellington"},{"date": "2013-08-16T04:06:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A severe 6.6 magnitude earthquake has hit New Zealand's South Island, close to the capital Wellington, followed by a series of aftershocks ranging from 2.0 up to a severe 6.0.The quake (earlier reported to be 6.2), around 10km south east of Seddon, was felt across large parts of the country and left residents feeling unnerved but reportedly uninjured, as strong aftershocks continue to rattle the region.The shallow quake was felt as far south as Dunedin, and in Auckland in the north. There is no tsunami warning for the region.GeoNet says the first quake was recorded at 2.31pm local time at a depth of 8km. The aftershock measuring 6.0 was initially recorded as 6.3 shortly after 5.30pm local time before being downgraded.Dr James Goff, leader of the tsunami and natural hazards research group at the University of New South Wales, said large aftershocks \"can happen\".\"In the New Zealand context and in other major earthquakes around the world you can get some pretty big ones, and you'd expect to have a lot more of the smaller aftershocks but you will get a big one every now and again as well,\" said Goff.There were reports of a house collapse as well as other homes damaged in the Marlborough region, and stuff.co.nz reported landslides in nearby Ward.New Zealanders were quick to jump on social media, to let friends and family know they were safe.The Australian Associated Press reported around 2,500 homes without power in the Wellington region; however, most were restored within the hour.Wellington Free Ambulance service told AAP they had received a spike in calls but could not confirm any injuries, and the fire service responded to a few calls from alarms tripped by the quake and some people stuck in lifts.There were also reports of power lines brought down in the Seddon area.People were leaving Wellington in large numbers as many office workers were sent home, resulting in heavy traffic and buses reportedly full, leaving large queues.Keep calm #wellington #respect each other take your time! pic.twitter.com/xTClcEF9a7\u2014 Dan Piper (@danpipernz) August 16, 2013  Buses are still running in central Wellington but there are massive queues. More than 100 people waiting at one stop on Willis St\u2014 RadioLIVE Newsroom (@LIVENewsDesk) August 16, 2013Cabinet minister Steven Joyce tweeted that the famous \"beehive\" parliament building was \"wobbling around like a jelly, but all ok\".Train services in Wellington and Marlborough regions were halted for at least four to six hours while tracks were inspected and Wellington airport was momentarily closed.Some universities closed their campuses as a precautionary measure.The Australian high commission in Wellington also closed their office, citing \"circumstances beyond our control\".The New Zealand dollar fell almost half a cent against the US dollar, and trading on the New Zealand stock exchange has been temporarily halted.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Earthquakes", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand earthquake hits near Wellington"},{"date": "2013-07-03T09:57:24Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A man has pleaded guilty to murdering veteran New Zealand journalist Derek Round in May last year. He died from multiple skull fractures after being beaten.Michael Umanui Werahiko was arrested the day after 77-year-old Round's body was discovered. He will be sentenced in August.Round spent much of his career as a news agency journalist for the New Zealand Press Association (NZPA) and Reuters. He was one of the last New Zealand journalists to leave Saigon at the conclusion of the Vietnam war.For five years in the 1980s, Round was NZPA's political editor in London and later the bureau chief.Source: APNZ via Herald", "tags": ["Media", "New Zealand", "News agencies", "Reuters"], "title": "Man admits killing New Zealand journalist"},{"date": "2013-08-16T04:06:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A severe 6.6 magnitude earthquake has hit New Zealand's South Island, close to the capital Wellington, followed by a series of aftershocks ranging from 2.0 up to a severe 6.0.The quake (earlier reported to be 6.2), around 10km south east of Seddon, was felt across large parts of the country and left residents feeling unnerved but reportedly uninjured, as strong aftershocks continue to rattle the region.The shallow quake was felt as far south as Dunedin, and in Auckland in the north. There is no tsunami warning for the region.GeoNet says the first quake was recorded at 2.31pm local time at a depth of 8km. The aftershock measuring 6.0 was initially recorded as 6.3 shortly after 5.30pm local time before being downgraded.Dr James Goff, leader of the tsunami and natural hazards research group at the University of New South Wales, said large aftershocks \"can happen\".\"In the New Zealand context and in other major earthquakes around the world you can get some pretty big ones, and you'd expect to have a lot more of the smaller aftershocks but you will get a big one every now and again as well,\" said Goff.There were reports of a house collapse as well as other homes damaged in the Marlborough region, and stuff.co.nz reported landslides in nearby Ward.New Zealanders were quick to jump on social media, to let friends and family know they were safe.The Australian Associated Press reported around 2,500 homes without power in the Wellington region; however, most were restored within the hour.Wellington Free Ambulance service told AAP they had received a spike in calls but could not confirm any injuries, and the fire service responded to a few calls from alarms tripped by the quake and some people stuck in lifts.There were also reports of power lines brought down in the Seddon area.People were leaving Wellington in large numbers as many office workers were sent home, resulting in heavy traffic and buses reportedly full, leaving large queues.Keep calm #wellington #respect each other take your time! pic.twitter.com/xTClcEF9a7\u2014 Dan Piper (@danpipernz) August 16, 2013  Buses are still running in central Wellington but there are massive queues. More than 100 people waiting at one stop on Willis St\u2014 RadioLIVE Newsroom (@LIVENewsDesk) August 16, 2013Cabinet minister Steven Joyce tweeted that the famous \"beehive\" parliament building was \"wobbling around like a jelly, but all ok\".Train services in Wellington and Marlborough regions were halted for at least four to six hours while tracks were inspected and Wellington airport was momentarily closed.Some universities closed their campuses as a precautionary measure.The Australian high commission in Wellington also closed their office, citing \"circumstances beyond our control\".The New Zealand dollar fell almost half a cent against the US dollar, and trading on the New Zealand stock exchange has been temporarily halted.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Earthquakes", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand earthquake hits near Wellington"},{"date": "2013-07-03T09:57:24Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A man has pleaded guilty to murdering veteran New Zealand journalist Derek Round in May last year. He died from multiple skull fractures after being beaten.Michael Umanui Werahiko was arrested the day after 77-year-old Round's body was discovered. He will be sentenced in August.Round spent much of his career as a news agency journalist for the New Zealand Press Association (NZPA) and Reuters. He was one of the last New Zealand journalists to leave Saigon at the conclusion of the Vietnam war.For five years in the 1980s, Round was NZPA's political editor in London and later the bureau chief.Source: APNZ via Herald", "tags": ["Media", "New Zealand", "News agencies", "Reuters"], "title": "Man admits killing New Zealand journalist"},{"date": "2013-08-21T13:45:07Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The New Zealand parliament has narrowly approved a spying bill that opponents say represents a fundamental threat to democratic rights and freedoms.Prompted by revelations of illegal spying on Kim Dotcom, the internet entrepreneur being sought for extradition from New Zealand by the US, the shakeup of the Government Communications Security Bureau (GCSB) progressed by a margin of two votes on Wednesday evening.The prime minister, John Key, said the changes bolster oversight and settle confusion in the previous law, making it clear that the GCSB \u2013 similar to Britain's GCHQ \u2013 can conduct surveillance on behalf of domestic agencies, under warrant.Opponents of the bill have argued that the new provisions giving GCSB the task of protecting New Zealanders from cyber-attack open a door to mass surveillance of electronic communications.The prime minister has maintained that the measures, which he has compared to a Norton Antivirus for the country, do no such thing, and has pledged to resign should the agency be found to have embarked on mass surveillance.The Green party co-leader, Russel Norman, argued that the legislation undermined freedom of expression. \"It reduces our freedom to live free from state surveillance and in that respect is a bill that reduces the freedom of New Zealanders. It is the moment of truth,\" he said.Key accused critics of the legislation, who include the New Zealand Law Society and the Human Rights Commission, of peddling \"misinformation and conspiracy theories\".\"Despite ill-informed claims to the contrary, nothing in this legislation allows for wholesale spying on New Zealanders. It actually tightens, not widens, the existing regime,\" he said.The bill had faced widespread public opposition. Auckland town hall was filled to capacity on Monday night to rally against the legislation, and a Fairfax Media poll published on Wednesday morning found that 75% of New Zealanders were worried about the changes.Critics have been motivated in part by concerns over the leaks from the former NSA contractor Edward Snowden.The GCSB is one of the \"five eyes\" in the Echelon information-sharing network along with the US's NSA, GCHQ and agencies in Canada and Australia. Key has refused to be drawn on the way that New Zealand exchanges information within the network, but insists that the arrangement is not used to circumvent domestic laws.New Zealand's spy agencies will be subject to an independent review every five to seven years, although the first such review will not take place for two years, after the next election.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "NSA", "US news", "US national security", "The NSA files", "Data protection", "Edward Snowden"], "title": "New Zealand parliament approves spying bill by two votes"},{"date": "2013-11-25T14:46:51Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A teenage climber has been rescued after breaking his femur, strapping his legs together with his shoelaces and dragging himself by his elbows part of the way down a mountain in search of help.Wanja Drees, 19, was almost at the summit of New Zealand's Mount Ruapehu on Sunday morning when he slid and fell 50 metres, crashing into an outcrop of snow and ice, the Waikato Times reported.After losing his mobile phone in the fall he was unable to call for aid. \"I slipped down 50 metres and hit a big rock in the snow. I screamed a lot and SOS very loudly and after half an hour no one came,\" said Drees, who is German and lives in New Zealand.Drees used his shirt to stem the bleeding from an open fracture to his femur, and created a splint for the broken limb by tying his other leg to it with his shoelaces. Using his elbows to stop him slipping down the snow and ice, he dragged himself towards help.Eventually his cries were heard by a man and his daughter who were near a cafe on the mountain, who went to investigate and alerted the emergency services. A rescue helicopter reached Drees during a short break in the weather, and he was flown to Rotorua hospital.Constable Conrad Smith, of the national park police, said: \"Quite possibly, tying his legs together like that saved his life.\"He added: \"I only had a brief conversation with him and he was pretty pumped up with drugs when I saw him, but he seems like a bit of a character.\"There's a few lessons that people can take on board from this. Although we are almost into summer there is still a lot of snow and ice near the top of that mountain. This guy was only of slight build \u2026 he did have a good jacket on and some other gear. But you definitely don't want to be hiking up the mountain if you have only got some street or skate shoes on.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Germany", "Asia Pacific", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Climber rescued after New Zealand mountain fall"},{"date": "2013-11-25T14:46:51Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A teenage climber has been rescued after breaking his femur, strapping his legs together with his shoelaces and dragging himself by his elbows part of the way down a mountain in search of help.Wanja Drees, 19, was almost at the summit of New Zealand's Mount Ruapehu on Sunday morning when he slid and fell 50 metres, crashing into an outcrop of snow and ice, the Waikato Times reported.After losing his mobile phone in the fall he was unable to call for aid. \"I slipped down 50 metres and hit a big rock in the snow. I screamed a lot and SOS very loudly and after half an hour no one came,\" said Drees, who is German and lives in New Zealand.Drees used his shirt to stem the bleeding from an open fracture to his femur, and created a splint for the broken limb by tying his other leg to it with his shoelaces. Using his elbows to stop him slipping down the snow and ice, he dragged himself towards help.Eventually his cries were heard by a man and his daughter who were near a cafe on the mountain, who went to investigate and alerted the emergency services. A rescue helicopter reached Drees during a short break in the weather, and he was flown to Rotorua hospital.Constable Conrad Smith, of the national park police, said: \"Quite possibly, tying his legs together like that saved his life.\"He added: \"I only had a brief conversation with him and he was pretty pumped up with drugs when I saw him, but he seems like a bit of a character.\"There's a few lessons that people can take on board from this. Although we are almost into summer there is still a lot of snow and ice near the top of that mountain. This guy was only of slight build \u2026 he did have a good jacket on and some other gear. But you definitely don't want to be hiking up the mountain if you have only got some street or skate shoes on.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Germany", "Asia Pacific", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Climber rescued after New Zealand mountain fall"},{"date": "2013-11-27T18:38:39Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Not content with its reputation for zingy sauvignon blancs, smooth pinot noirs and competitively priced fizz, New Zealand has announced its intention to become the world's leading producer of decent wines for the discerning but diet-conscious drinker.With a thirsty eye on the growing market for \"lifestyle wines\" \u2013 those with fewer calories and lower alcohol levels \u2013 the government has decided to pour NZ$8.13m (\u00a34m) into the quest for viticultural and oenological supremacy.The seven-year investment will help fund a NZ$16.97m (\u00a38.5m) \"world-leading\" research programme put together by the ministry for primary industries and the New Zealand wine industry.Philip Gregan, the chief executive officer of New Zealand Wine, said the joint project would produce \"tangible outcomes\" not only for the grape and wine industries, but also for the country's economy. \"This programme will capitalise on the domestic and international market demand for high-quality, lower-calorie and lower-alcohol 'lifestyle' wines by developing new, natural techniques for grapevine growth and wine production utilised across the New Zealand wine industry,\" he said.\"Our point of difference will be producing premium wines that can be naturally produced using sustainable viticultural techniques and native yeasts \u2013 providing an important point of difference to existing processing methods.\"The announcement comes amid growing consumer appetite for lower-alcohol wines. A study conducted over the summer in the UK, the US, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Sweden and Switzerland showed that 38% of wine drinkers \u2013 or more than 80 million people \u2013 were buying wines with alcohol levels below 10.5%.Natasha Rastegar, a senior project manager at the market research and strategy company Wine Intelligence, which carried out the survey, said the popularity of low-alcohol wines was chiefly down to their lower prices.\"Some may also be motivated to buy lower-alcohol wines thanks to the health benefits of less alcohol and specifically because of there being fewer calories per glass,\" she said. \"In the UK for example 21% of regular wine drinkers choose lower alcohol because it's cheaper than standard wine, whilst 20% choose it because it has fewer calories.\"The main challenge for wine producers, said Rastegar, was finding a way to improve the quality and taste of lower-alcohol wines.Justin Howard-Sneyd, a master of wine, wine-maker and global wine consultant at Laithwaite's, agreed there was a demand for wines with less alcohol after decades of wines getting stronger.\"Alcohols in wine in the last 30 years have gradually crept up and I think the reason for that is the riper the grape is, the juicier it tastes and the resulting wine \u2013 the 14-degree [14%] wine \u2013 tastes richer and fuller-bodied and more appealing than a 12-degree wine from the same grape,\" he said. \"So wine-makers across different countries have been finding it easier to sell more alcoholic wines because of the taste preference.\"But, he said, people were beginning to give more thought to what \u2013 and how \u2013 they drank.\"They're starting to realise that the wine they're consuming is of a higher alcohol level than perhaps they were used to and perhaps they were consuming more wine than was good for their waistline and their health. People are thinking of ways to drink a bit less: either drink better wine but less often, or drink the same amount of wine but lower alcohol.\"The difficulty, he said, was finding pleasant-tasting wines below 10 degrees: producing a wine with lower alcohol levels meant the maker had either to use grapes that were not fully ripe \u2013 risking an unbalanced wine \u2013 or take some of the alcohol out of wine made with fully ripened grapes, which could yield a \"slightly engineered\" wine.\"It's a very interesting move from the New Zealand government,\" said Howard-Sneyd. \"If they can produce very delicious tasting, high-quality wine that has low alcohol levels, I think that will be welcomed by the industry and by customers because there definitely is some demand for wines that aren't quite so alcoholic \u2013 but it is a challenge.\"", "tags": ["Wine", "New Zealand", "Diets and dieting", "Alcohol", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Life and style", "Society"], "title": "New Zealand aims to become leading maker of diet wines"},{"date": "2013-11-25T14:46:51Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A teenage climber has been rescued after breaking his femur, strapping his legs together with his shoelaces and dragging himself by his elbows part of the way down a mountain in search of help.Wanja Drees, 19, was almost at the summit of New Zealand's Mount Ruapehu on Sunday morning when he slid and fell 50 metres, crashing into an outcrop of snow and ice, the Waikato Times reported.After losing his mobile phone in the fall he was unable to call for aid. \"I slipped down 50 metres and hit a big rock in the snow. I screamed a lot and SOS very loudly and after half an hour no one came,\" said Drees, who is German and lives in New Zealand.Drees used his shirt to stem the bleeding from an open fracture to his femur, and created a splint for the broken limb by tying his other leg to it with his shoelaces. Using his elbows to stop him slipping down the snow and ice, he dragged himself towards help.Eventually his cries were heard by a man and his daughter who were near a cafe on the mountain, who went to investigate and alerted the emergency services. A rescue helicopter reached Drees during a short break in the weather, and he was flown to Rotorua hospital.Constable Conrad Smith, of the national park police, said: \"Quite possibly, tying his legs together like that saved his life.\"He added: \"I only had a brief conversation with him and he was pretty pumped up with drugs when I saw him, but he seems like a bit of a character.\"There's a few lessons that people can take on board from this. Although we are almost into summer there is still a lot of snow and ice near the top of that mountain. This guy was only of slight build \u2026 he did have a good jacket on and some other gear. But you definitely don't want to be hiking up the mountain if you have only got some street or skate shoes on.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Germany", "Asia Pacific", "Europe", "World news"], "title": "Climber rescued after New Zealand mountain fall"},{"date": "2013-11-27T18:38:39Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Not content with its reputation for zingy sauvignon blancs, smooth pinot noirs and competitively priced fizz, New Zealand has announced its intention to become the world's leading producer of decent wines for the discerning but diet-conscious drinker.With a thirsty eye on the growing market for \"lifestyle wines\" \u2013 those with fewer calories and lower alcohol levels \u2013 the government has decided to pour NZ$8.13m (\u00a34m) into the quest for viticultural and oenological supremacy.The seven-year investment will help fund a NZ$16.97m (\u00a38.5m) \"world-leading\" research programme put together by the ministry for primary industries and the New Zealand wine industry.Philip Gregan, the chief executive officer of New Zealand Wine, said the joint project would produce \"tangible outcomes\" not only for the grape and wine industries, but also for the country's economy. \"This programme will capitalise on the domestic and international market demand for high-quality, lower-calorie and lower-alcohol 'lifestyle' wines by developing new, natural techniques for grapevine growth and wine production utilised across the New Zealand wine industry,\" he said.\"Our point of difference will be producing premium wines that can be naturally produced using sustainable viticultural techniques and native yeasts \u2013 providing an important point of difference to existing processing methods.\"The announcement comes amid growing consumer appetite for lower-alcohol wines. A study conducted over the summer in the UK, the US, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Sweden and Switzerland showed that 38% of wine drinkers \u2013 or more than 80 million people \u2013 were buying wines with alcohol levels below 10.5%.Natasha Rastegar, a senior project manager at the market research and strategy company Wine Intelligence, which carried out the survey, said the popularity of low-alcohol wines was chiefly down to their lower prices.\"Some may also be motivated to buy lower-alcohol wines thanks to the health benefits of less alcohol and specifically because of there being fewer calories per glass,\" she said. \"In the UK for example 21% of regular wine drinkers choose lower alcohol because it's cheaper than standard wine, whilst 20% choose it because it has fewer calories.\"The main challenge for wine producers, said Rastegar, was finding a way to improve the quality and taste of lower-alcohol wines.Justin Howard-Sneyd, a master of wine, wine-maker and global wine consultant at Laithwaite's, agreed there was a demand for wines with less alcohol after decades of wines getting stronger.\"Alcohols in wine in the last 30 years have gradually crept up and I think the reason for that is the riper the grape is, the juicier it tastes and the resulting wine \u2013 the 14-degree [14%] wine \u2013 tastes richer and fuller-bodied and more appealing than a 12-degree wine from the same grape,\" he said. \"So wine-makers across different countries have been finding it easier to sell more alcoholic wines because of the taste preference.\"But, he said, people were beginning to give more thought to what \u2013 and how \u2013 they drank.\"They're starting to realise that the wine they're consuming is of a higher alcohol level than perhaps they were used to and perhaps they were consuming more wine than was good for their waistline and their health. People are thinking of ways to drink a bit less: either drink better wine but less often, or drink the same amount of wine but lower alcohol.\"The difficulty, he said, was finding pleasant-tasting wines below 10 degrees: producing a wine with lower alcohol levels meant the maker had either to use grapes that were not fully ripe \u2013 risking an unbalanced wine \u2013 or take some of the alcohol out of wine made with fully ripened grapes, which could yield a \"slightly engineered\" wine.\"It's a very interesting move from the New Zealand government,\" said Howard-Sneyd. \"If they can produce very delicious tasting, high-quality wine that has low alcohol levels, I think that will be welcomed by the industry and by customers because there definitely is some demand for wines that aren't quite so alcoholic \u2013 but it is a challenge.\"", "tags": ["Wine", "New Zealand", "Diets and dieting", "Alcohol", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Life and style", "Society"], "title": "New Zealand aims to become leading maker of diet wines"},{"date": "2013-11-28T11:26:48Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Sainsbury's has admitted misleading shoppers by selling jellied eels on its fish counters as \"British\" when they actually came from New Zealand.The supermarket owned up after the Angling Trust, which represents the UK's anglers, complained that shoppers were being misled.Justin King, chief executive of Sainsbury's wrote to the trust to admit the mistake and promised to rectify in-store labelling, which saw the jellied eels sold under a large sign saying \"from sustainable sources from around the British Isles\". He said: \"As a result of your communication we will ensure communications at our store fish counters are as clear as possible.\"Eel numbers in British waters have plummeted in recent years and the trust said food should be properly labelled so shoppers can make \"informed decisions\".Jellied eels were once staple fare for working-class Londoners and a popular snack from shellfish stalls. After a sales slump in the 1990s, they are now being revived by supermarkets across the UK as consumers seek cheap and nutritious food.Over the last two years sales at Tesco have grown by 35% and last year the supermarket chain took a gamble by putting jellied eels on sale outside of London for the first time, including Scotland and Northern Ireland. It now sells jellied eels in nearly 300 of its stores across the UK. Its supplier Bradley's, which only sources British eels also provides eels for 150 Morrisons stores, and Sainsbury's.The European eel has been a recognised endangered species since 2010 and anglers are required by law to return any that they catch using rod and line. Only last week, the International Council for Exploration of the Seas (ICES) issued its latest report on eel stocks: \"The status of eel remains critical and urgent action is needed. ICES advises that all anthropogenic mortality (eg recreational and commercial fishing, hydropower, pollution) affecting production and escapement of silver eels should be reduced to as close to zero as possible, until there is clear evidence of sustained increase in both recruitment and the adult stock.\"Mark Lloyd, chief executive of the Angling Trust, said: \"We welcome Sainsbury's admission and hope it will take a careful look at the source of all its fish and how it's marketed. Provenance is very important to customers and we should be able to trust supermarkets to be absolutely precise about how food is labelled so that we can take informed decisions.\"A spokesman for Sainsbury's said more than 60% of its fish was sourced from the UK.", "tags": ["Fishing", "Endangered species", "Wildlife", "Conservation", "Environment", "J Sainsbury", "Supermarkets", "Business", "Fish", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Seafood", "Consumer affairs", "Money"], "title": "Sainsbury's admits New Zealand jellied eels were mislabelled as British"},{"date": "2014-02-06T03:53:26Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Neil Finn has some excellent advice for fellow New Zealander Lorde. And it\u2019s this: get out of New Zealand.\u201cThose news teams are idiots,\u201d he sighs, referring to the media scrum that jostled her in the airport upon her recent return from the US. \u201cNew Zealand had, up until that moment, been quite a good environment [for her] because people are not super celebrity-oriented, they pretty much leave you alone. But it keeps reaching this new critical mass and now with winning two Grammys, I think it\u2019s getting pretty intense.\u201d Finn is no stranger to life as a celebrity \u2013 first when roped into his brother Tim\u2019s band Split Enz just as they were becoming an international concern, then enjoying even greater global success leading Crowded House. So, in Finn\u2019s opinion, what should Lorde do? \u201cI\u2019d think she might go well moving to New York or something, where there are more famous people and less bother about it. It wouldn\u2019t be a bad move to get among the centre of operations.\u201dThe reason Finn is discussing the minutia of fame is the imminent release of his third solo album, Dizzy Heights. Its predecessor, One Nil, was released in 2001 \u2013 but it\u2019s not as though he\u2019s been idle in the interim. He\u2019s released two albums under 7 Worlds Collide (a charity collaboration with the likes of Johnny Marr, Eddie Vedder and pretty much all of Wilco), 2004\u2019s Finn Brothers album Everyone is Here, two reunion albums with Crowded House and last year\u2019s self-titled release with the indie band he formed with wife Sharon, the Pajama Club. Throw in tours with all of the above, plus his theatre tour with Paul Kelly, and a song for the first of Peter Jackson\u2019s Hobbit films, and you can understand why he\u2019s maybe had a few other things on his plate. And yet, \u201ca lot of people are asking me why has it been over ten years since I\u2019ve had a solo record,\u201d he sighs. \u201cAnd it\u2019s obvious but it weirds me out a little bit because it doesn\u2019t really feel like that in my head: you need to attach a name to something to give it a sense of identity, but it feels like one album after another in different contexts.\u201dThe distinctions between Finn\u2019s projust are also far from clear cut. The Crowded House reunion album Time on Earth began life as a Finn solo disc with guest bass from Crowded House co-founder Nick Seymour.However, \u201cit just got to the point with that record where Nick got so involved with it and we were enjoying each other\u2019s company, and it we went \u2018it feels like a Crowded House album\u2019. Most of the music could have been almost exactly the same with my name on it. Well, it would have been the same album, essentially.\u201dSo there\u2019s no distinction made when a song is written as to whether it\u2019s a solo song or for some other project?\u201cNo. Generally the pool is the pool and I\u2019ll just draw from it. There is a few things that I park \u2013 for example, there are a few songs parked at the moment for a new Crowded House album, but for some reason I just didn\u2019t feel like going the whole way with them at the moment.\u201dSo there\u2019s a new Crowded House album in the pipeline (\u201cwhich I think will be really good,\u201d he emphasises). In fact, Finn is thoroughly enjoying having a variety of options when it comes to writing. \u201cI believe in bands,\u201d he says simply. \u201cIn some ways it makes the process more continuous and easer because you establish a pattern: you go to rehearsal, you try the new songs, you go home and you know how to finish them now because you\u2019ve just played them.\u201dAnd how about solo?\u201cIn that environment there are any number of possibilities, so it\u2019s actually trickier \u2013 but leaves you more free to push boundaries and explore.\u201dHow does having these sorts of options compare with the process when Crowded House was the sole creative outlet for every song? \u201cWell, we tried everything,\u201d he shrugs. \u201cWe didn\u2019t set restrictions for ourselves that much, though there were songs that didn\u2019t suit the band and we didn\u2019t play them very well. Strangely enough, thinking back, the first few times we tried to play Don\u2019t Dream it\u2019s Over we were terrible. We played it really badly.\u201cIt took Mitchell [Froom, producer] suggesting a new way of approaching the bassline. And he put the organ on there \u2013 that was a big revelation. But we had to really learn how to play that song, and in the end we had to learn how to play other kinds of songs as well.\u201dFor Dizzy Heights Finn had the best of both worlds: a solo album with a core band, but one he knew extremely well. In fact, he was directly responsible for two of them: his sons Elroy and Liam Finn.\u201cI spawned!\u201d he laughs. \u201cBreed your band! It was a nice opportunity that sprung up because they were available and keen. And we are aware that we can play together really well.\u201dWith Sharon also in the core group that made the record, does this mean that the Good Time Finn Family Band and Medicine Show is on the horizon?\u201cWe haven\u2019t done a lot together, and I would be wary of assuming that my view of what would be great would be the same as that of the boys,\u201d he carefully replies, \u201cbut I think we\u2019re working towards a meaningful collaboration at some point, where everyone\u2019s writing as well.\u201dIt would seem that working with one\u2019s kids clearly has some advantages (\u201cwe know we can get through any small family moments, any old sensitivities that crop up \u2026\u201d), but it raises some unique questions too. For example, how does one sit down with your sons and have them run through a song about their father\u2019s eventual death, as with the new album\u2019s In My Blood?Finn\u2019s momentarily taken aback. \u201cIt\u2019s not actually that dark, that song. There\u2019s a heavy subtext but what I\u2019m trying to say in that is that there are certain times when you feel something and unmistakable, and my theory is that you inherit memories from your ancestors: memories of feelings, pure feelings.\u201dVia the culture? \u201cNo no, in the DNA. Essentially I was thinking that if you have a really intense experience, you pass that on to your children and it\u2019s responsible for certain ways that they respond to certain things, little mysterious elements of character. But what the boys think of it, I don\u2019t know.\u201dHave there been moments when the subject matter is too raw, though? \u201cActually, there was a moment on the last record, and it was a slightly distressing moment for me, where I realised I\u2019d really laid myself open. The first track, Tell Me What You Want. To me it seemed to be a very playful, mischievous spin on saying \u2018c\u2019mon baby, this is what I like\u2019 and your baby saying \u2018yeah, tell me what you want\u2019,\u201d he sighs. \u201cBut because we\u2019re a little older and have kids, people thought it was quite creepy. My nephew asked me about it one day \u2013 \u2018eww, that was a bit saucy, isn\u2019t it, that one?\u2019 \u2013 and I just went \u2018aww\u2019. People do pore over things a little more than I may be comfortable with admitting.\u201dHe admits that he still finds the lyrics the most challenging thing (\u201cThere\u2019s still a part of me that thinking I\u2019m just getting by\u201d), especially given those writers he particularly admires. \u201cThe guy from Arctic Monkeys [Alex Turner] is clearly a really good lyricist, of a style. He\u2019s a very clever writer.\u201cI actually think in places Lorde is a very impressive with her language. I hope she has something to write about now that her life\u2019s been transformed to massive celebrity, because she certainly wrote about being a teenager quite well. And there are great lyrics in the rap world: there\u2019s some great wordsmithery, albeit talking about things that I don\u2019t necessarily relate to.\u201dHe confesses that he doesn\u2019t always recognise every pop culture reference in rap music, although Dizzy Heights has a surprising amount of them. Among the reflections in the album's most Crowded House-sounding moment, Recluse, are references to Howard Hughes, Sly Stone and Game of Thrones. \u201cI threw a few references that were rolling around the house when I was writing the album. My wife got really into Game of Thrones for a while \u2013 I never got to watch it.\u201d Well, with the upcoming tour schedule, maybe it\u2019s worth downloading for the flights. \u201cTo be honest, I don\u2019t have much endurance with those series, even if they\u2019re good,\" he says. \"I didn\u2019t even get to the end of Breaking Bad.\"", "tags": ["Lorde", "New Zealand", "Australia news"], "title": "Neil Finn: 'Lorde should leave New Zealand'"},{"date": "2014-02-06T03:53:26Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Neil Finn has some excellent advice for fellow New Zealander Lorde. And it\u2019s this: get out of New Zealand.\u201cThose news teams are idiots,\u201d he sighs, referring to the media scrum that jostled her in the airport upon her recent return from the US. \u201cNew Zealand had, up until that moment, been quite a good environment [for her] because people are not super celebrity-oriented, they pretty much leave you alone. But it keeps reaching this new critical mass and now with winning two Grammys, I think it\u2019s getting pretty intense.\u201d Finn is no stranger to life as a celebrity \u2013 first when roped into his brother Tim\u2019s band Split Enz just as they were becoming an international concern, then enjoying even greater global success leading Crowded House. So, in Finn\u2019s opinion, what should Lorde do? \u201cI\u2019d think she might go well moving to New York or something, where there are more famous people and less bother about it. It wouldn\u2019t be a bad move to get among the centre of operations.\u201dThe reason Finn is discussing the minutia of fame is the imminent release of his third solo album, Dizzy Heights. Its predecessor, One Nil, was released in 2001 \u2013 but it\u2019s not as though he\u2019s been idle in the interim. He\u2019s released two albums under 7 Worlds Collide (a charity collaboration with the likes of Johnny Marr, Eddie Vedder and pretty much all of Wilco), 2004\u2019s Finn Brothers album Everyone is Here, two reunion albums with Crowded House and last year\u2019s self-titled release with the indie band he formed with wife Sharon, the Pajama Club. Throw in tours with all of the above, plus his theatre tour with Paul Kelly, and a song for the first of Peter Jackson\u2019s Hobbit films, and you can understand why he\u2019s maybe had a few other things on his plate. And yet, \u201ca lot of people are asking me why has it been over ten years since I\u2019ve had a solo record,\u201d he sighs. \u201cAnd it\u2019s obvious but it weirds me out a little bit because it doesn\u2019t really feel like that in my head: you need to attach a name to something to give it a sense of identity, but it feels like one album after another in different contexts.\u201dThe distinctions between Finn\u2019s projust are also far from clear cut. The Crowded House reunion album Time on Earth began life as a Finn solo disc with guest bass from Crowded House co-founder Nick Seymour.However, \u201cit just got to the point with that record where Nick got so involved with it and we were enjoying each other\u2019s company, and it we went \u2018it feels like a Crowded House album\u2019. Most of the music could have been almost exactly the same with my name on it. Well, it would have been the same album, essentially.\u201dSo there\u2019s no distinction made when a song is written as to whether it\u2019s a solo song or for some other project?\u201cNo. Generally the pool is the pool and I\u2019ll just draw from it. There is a few things that I park \u2013 for example, there are a few songs parked at the moment for a new Crowded House album, but for some reason I just didn\u2019t feel like going the whole way with them at the moment.\u201dSo there\u2019s a new Crowded House album in the pipeline (\u201cwhich I think will be really good,\u201d he emphasises). In fact, Finn is thoroughly enjoying having a variety of options when it comes to writing. \u201cI believe in bands,\u201d he says simply. \u201cIn some ways it makes the process more continuous and easer because you establish a pattern: you go to rehearsal, you try the new songs, you go home and you know how to finish them now because you\u2019ve just played them.\u201dAnd how about solo?\u201cIn that environment there are any number of possibilities, so it\u2019s actually trickier \u2013 but leaves you more free to push boundaries and explore.\u201dHow does having these sorts of options compare with the process when Crowded House was the sole creative outlet for every song? \u201cWell, we tried everything,\u201d he shrugs. \u201cWe didn\u2019t set restrictions for ourselves that much, though there were songs that didn\u2019t suit the band and we didn\u2019t play them very well. Strangely enough, thinking back, the first few times we tried to play Don\u2019t Dream it\u2019s Over we were terrible. We played it really badly.\u201cIt took Mitchell [Froom, producer] suggesting a new way of approaching the bassline. And he put the organ on there \u2013 that was a big revelation. But we had to really learn how to play that song, and in the end we had to learn how to play other kinds of songs as well.\u201dFor Dizzy Heights Finn had the best of both worlds: a solo album with a core band, but one he knew extremely well. In fact, he was directly responsible for two of them: his sons Elroy and Liam Finn.\u201cI spawned!\u201d he laughs. \u201cBreed your band! It was a nice opportunity that sprung up because they were available and keen. And we are aware that we can play together really well.\u201dWith Sharon also in the core group that made the record, does this mean that the Good Time Finn Family Band and Medicine Show is on the horizon?\u201cWe haven\u2019t done a lot together, and I would be wary of assuming that my view of what would be great would be the same as that of the boys,\u201d he carefully replies, \u201cbut I think we\u2019re working towards a meaningful collaboration at some point, where everyone\u2019s writing as well.\u201dIt would seem that working with one\u2019s kids clearly has some advantages (\u201cwe know we can get through any small family moments, any old sensitivities that crop up \u2026\u201d), but it raises some unique questions too. For example, how does one sit down with your sons and have them run through a song about their father\u2019s eventual death, as with the new album\u2019s In My Blood?Finn\u2019s momentarily taken aback. \u201cIt\u2019s not actually that dark, that song. There\u2019s a heavy subtext but what I\u2019m trying to say in that is that there are certain times when you feel something and unmistakable, and my theory is that you inherit memories from your ancestors: memories of feelings, pure feelings.\u201dVia the culture? \u201cNo no, in the DNA. Essentially I was thinking that if you have a really intense experience, you pass that on to your children and it\u2019s responsible for certain ways that they respond to certain things, little mysterious elements of character. But what the boys think of it, I don\u2019t know.\u201dHave there been moments when the subject matter is too raw, though? \u201cActually, there was a moment on the last record, and it was a slightly distressing moment for me, where I realised I\u2019d really laid myself open. The first track, Tell Me What You Want. To me it seemed to be a very playful, mischievous spin on saying \u2018c\u2019mon baby, this is what I like\u2019 and your baby saying \u2018yeah, tell me what you want\u2019,\u201d he sighs. \u201cBut because we\u2019re a little older and have kids, people thought it was quite creepy. My nephew asked me about it one day \u2013 \u2018eww, that was a bit saucy, isn\u2019t it, that one?\u2019 \u2013 and I just went \u2018aww\u2019. People do pore over things a little more than I may be comfortable with admitting.\u201dHe admits that he still finds the lyrics the most challenging thing (\u201cThere\u2019s still a part of me that thinking I\u2019m just getting by\u201d), especially given those writers he particularly admires. \u201cThe guy from Arctic Monkeys [Alex Turner] is clearly a really good lyricist, of a style. He\u2019s a very clever writer.\u201cI actually think in places Lorde is a very impressive with her language. I hope she has something to write about now that her life\u2019s been transformed to massive celebrity, because she certainly wrote about being a teenager quite well. And there are great lyrics in the rap world: there\u2019s some great wordsmithery, albeit talking about things that I don\u2019t necessarily relate to.\u201dHe confesses that he doesn\u2019t always recognise every pop culture reference in rap music, although Dizzy Heights has a surprising amount of them. Among the reflections in the album's most Crowded House-sounding moment, Recluse, are references to Howard Hughes, Sly Stone and Game of Thrones. \u201cI threw a few references that were rolling around the house when I was writing the album. My wife got really into Game of Thrones for a while \u2013 I never got to watch it.\u201d Well, with the upcoming tour schedule, maybe it\u2019s worth downloading for the flights. \u201cTo be honest, I don\u2019t have much endurance with those series, even if they\u2019re good,\" he says. \"I didn\u2019t even get to the end of Breaking Bad.\"", "tags": ["Lorde", "New Zealand", "Australia news"], "title": "Neil Finn: 'Lorde should leave New Zealand'"},{"date": "2014-03-11T01:39:11Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealanders are to be given the chance to jettison the most visible remaining symbol of their colonial past in a referendum on changing the national flag. In a speech in Wellington on Tuesday, the prime minister, John Key, promised a vote in the next parliamentary term on whether to keep the existing design, which features the union jack and four stars representing the southern cross, or replace it with an alternative, such as the silver fern on a black background or a version of the Maori koru.Key, who personally favours the silver-fern-on-black option made famous by the All Black rugby side, said the time was ripe for \u201cone more step in the evolution of modern New Zealand\u201d. A change to the design of the flag, currently identical to the Australian banner apart from the number and style of stars, would show the country \u201cacknowledging our independence\u201d.\u201cIt\u2019s my belief, and I think one increasingly shared by many New Zealanders, that the design of the New Zealand flag symbolises a colonial and post-colonial era whose time has passed,\u201d he said.Key cited Canada\u2019s shift in 1965, from a union jack adorned flag to a maple leaf symbol, as an example. \u201cThat old flag represented Canada as it was once, rather than as it is now. Similarly, I think our flag represents us as we were once, rather than as we are now.\u201dHe pledged to work with all political parties to establish a working group that would in turn map out a process, which would very likely involve two separate plebiscites \u2013 to determine if a change was wanted and the preferred replacement.Early indications from the main opposition leaders, who have criticised the prime minister\u2019s past flirtations with a change in the flag as an attempt to distract attention from issues such as inequality, are that they will support the process outlined.While republican groups welcome the change as part of a trend towards severing ties with the \u201cmother country\u201d, Key emphasised that he did not see it this way.\u201cWe retain a strong and important constitutional link to the monarchy and I get no sense of any groundswell of support to let that go. Nor could we or would we dispose of the cultural legacy which gave us a proud democracy, a strong legal system and a rich artistic heritage,\u201d he said.\u201cOur status as a constitutional monarchy continues to serve us well. It\u2019s an arrangement that provides stability, continuity and keeps our head of state above party politics.\u201dSean Palmer, chair of the lobby group Monarchy New Zealand, welcomed Key\u2019s commitment to the Commonwealth, saying it was a mistake to \u201ctry to conflate the question of the flag and constitutional status\u201d. The majority of Commonwealth countries did not sport the union jack on their flags, he said, and there was no reason for Prince William and Catherine, who visit New Zealand next month, to regard the announcement as a snub.A redesign is anything but inevitable, however. A Colmar Brunton poll for TVNZ last month found that just 28% of those who expressed an opinion wanted a fresh flag, with 72% preferring the status quo. In a similar poll in 2004, 42% wanted a change.Key had previously hinted a referendum might be held in conjunction with the general election later this year, but instead has used the promise of a vote in the next term as his first gambit since the announcement of the election date earlier this week.The election, in which Key\u2019s National party hopes to win a third consecutive term, will be held on September 20, two months earlier than is usual, to provide sufficient time for any coalition talks ahead of the Brisbane G20 meetings and surrounding events in November, Key said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "John Key", "Politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand to hold referendum on new, \u2018post-colonial\u2019 flag"},{"date": "2014-02-06T03:53:26Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Neil Finn has some excellent advice for fellow New Zealander Lorde. And it\u2019s this: get out of New Zealand.\u201cThose news teams are idiots,\u201d he sighs, referring to the media scrum that jostled her in the airport upon her recent return from the US. \u201cNew Zealand had, up until that moment, been quite a good environment [for her] because people are not super celebrity-oriented, they pretty much leave you alone. But it keeps reaching this new critical mass and now with winning two Grammys, I think it\u2019s getting pretty intense.\u201d Finn is no stranger to life as a celebrity \u2013 first when roped into his brother Tim\u2019s band Split Enz just as they were becoming an international concern, then enjoying even greater global success leading Crowded House. So, in Finn\u2019s opinion, what should Lorde do? \u201cI\u2019d think she might go well moving to New York or something, where there are more famous people and less bother about it. It wouldn\u2019t be a bad move to get among the centre of operations.\u201dThe reason Finn is discussing the minutia of fame is the imminent release of his third solo album, Dizzy Heights. Its predecessor, One Nil, was released in 2001 \u2013 but it\u2019s not as though he\u2019s been idle in the interim. He\u2019s released two albums under 7 Worlds Collide (a charity collaboration with the likes of Johnny Marr, Eddie Vedder and pretty much all of Wilco), 2004\u2019s Finn Brothers album Everyone is Here, two reunion albums with Crowded House and last year\u2019s self-titled release with the indie band he formed with wife Sharon, the Pajama Club. Throw in tours with all of the above, plus his theatre tour with Paul Kelly, and a song for the first of Peter Jackson\u2019s Hobbit films, and you can understand why he\u2019s maybe had a few other things on his plate. And yet, \u201ca lot of people are asking me why has it been over ten years since I\u2019ve had a solo record,\u201d he sighs. \u201cAnd it\u2019s obvious but it weirds me out a little bit because it doesn\u2019t really feel like that in my head: you need to attach a name to something to give it a sense of identity, but it feels like one album after another in different contexts.\u201dThe distinctions between Finn\u2019s projust are also far from clear cut. The Crowded House reunion album Time on Earth began life as a Finn solo disc with guest bass from Crowded House co-founder Nick Seymour.However, \u201cit just got to the point with that record where Nick got so involved with it and we were enjoying each other\u2019s company, and it we went \u2018it feels like a Crowded House album\u2019. Most of the music could have been almost exactly the same with my name on it. Well, it would have been the same album, essentially.\u201dSo there\u2019s no distinction made when a song is written as to whether it\u2019s a solo song or for some other project?\u201cNo. Generally the pool is the pool and I\u2019ll just draw from it. There is a few things that I park \u2013 for example, there are a few songs parked at the moment for a new Crowded House album, but for some reason I just didn\u2019t feel like going the whole way with them at the moment.\u201dSo there\u2019s a new Crowded House album in the pipeline (\u201cwhich I think will be really good,\u201d he emphasises). In fact, Finn is thoroughly enjoying having a variety of options when it comes to writing. \u201cI believe in bands,\u201d he says simply. \u201cIn some ways it makes the process more continuous and easer because you establish a pattern: you go to rehearsal, you try the new songs, you go home and you know how to finish them now because you\u2019ve just played them.\u201dAnd how about solo?\u201cIn that environment there are any number of possibilities, so it\u2019s actually trickier \u2013 but leaves you more free to push boundaries and explore.\u201dHow does having these sorts of options compare with the process when Crowded House was the sole creative outlet for every song? \u201cWell, we tried everything,\u201d he shrugs. \u201cWe didn\u2019t set restrictions for ourselves that much, though there were songs that didn\u2019t suit the band and we didn\u2019t play them very well. Strangely enough, thinking back, the first few times we tried to play Don\u2019t Dream it\u2019s Over we were terrible. We played it really badly.\u201cIt took Mitchell [Froom, producer] suggesting a new way of approaching the bassline. And he put the organ on there \u2013 that was a big revelation. But we had to really learn how to play that song, and in the end we had to learn how to play other kinds of songs as well.\u201dFor Dizzy Heights Finn had the best of both worlds: a solo album with a core band, but one he knew extremely well. In fact, he was directly responsible for two of them: his sons Elroy and Liam Finn.\u201cI spawned!\u201d he laughs. \u201cBreed your band! It was a nice opportunity that sprung up because they were available and keen. And we are aware that we can play together really well.\u201dWith Sharon also in the core group that made the record, does this mean that the Good Time Finn Family Band and Medicine Show is on the horizon?\u201cWe haven\u2019t done a lot together, and I would be wary of assuming that my view of what would be great would be the same as that of the boys,\u201d he carefully replies, \u201cbut I think we\u2019re working towards a meaningful collaboration at some point, where everyone\u2019s writing as well.\u201dIt would seem that working with one\u2019s kids clearly has some advantages (\u201cwe know we can get through any small family moments, any old sensitivities that crop up \u2026\u201d), but it raises some unique questions too. For example, how does one sit down with your sons and have them run through a song about their father\u2019s eventual death, as with the new album\u2019s In My Blood?Finn\u2019s momentarily taken aback. \u201cIt\u2019s not actually that dark, that song. There\u2019s a heavy subtext but what I\u2019m trying to say in that is that there are certain times when you feel something and unmistakable, and my theory is that you inherit memories from your ancestors: memories of feelings, pure feelings.\u201dVia the culture? \u201cNo no, in the DNA. Essentially I was thinking that if you have a really intense experience, you pass that on to your children and it\u2019s responsible for certain ways that they respond to certain things, little mysterious elements of character. But what the boys think of it, I don\u2019t know.\u201dHave there been moments when the subject matter is too raw, though? \u201cActually, there was a moment on the last record, and it was a slightly distressing moment for me, where I realised I\u2019d really laid myself open. The first track, Tell Me What You Want. To me it seemed to be a very playful, mischievous spin on saying \u2018c\u2019mon baby, this is what I like\u2019 and your baby saying \u2018yeah, tell me what you want\u2019,\u201d he sighs. \u201cBut because we\u2019re a little older and have kids, people thought it was quite creepy. My nephew asked me about it one day \u2013 \u2018eww, that was a bit saucy, isn\u2019t it, that one?\u2019 \u2013 and I just went \u2018aww\u2019. People do pore over things a little more than I may be comfortable with admitting.\u201dHe admits that he still finds the lyrics the most challenging thing (\u201cThere\u2019s still a part of me that thinking I\u2019m just getting by\u201d), especially given those writers he particularly admires. \u201cThe guy from Arctic Monkeys [Alex Turner] is clearly a really good lyricist, of a style. He\u2019s a very clever writer.\u201cI actually think in places Lorde is a very impressive with her language. I hope she has something to write about now that her life\u2019s been transformed to massive celebrity, because she certainly wrote about being a teenager quite well. And there are great lyrics in the rap world: there\u2019s some great wordsmithery, albeit talking about things that I don\u2019t necessarily relate to.\u201dHe confesses that he doesn\u2019t always recognise every pop culture reference in rap music, although Dizzy Heights has a surprising amount of them. Among the reflections in the album's most Crowded House-sounding moment, Recluse, are references to Howard Hughes, Sly Stone and Game of Thrones. \u201cI threw a few references that were rolling around the house when I was writing the album. My wife got really into Game of Thrones for a while \u2013 I never got to watch it.\u201d Well, with the upcoming tour schedule, maybe it\u2019s worth downloading for the flights. \u201cTo be honest, I don\u2019t have much endurance with those series, even if they\u2019re good,\" he says. \"I didn\u2019t even get to the end of Breaking Bad.\"", "tags": ["Lorde", "New Zealand", "Australia news"], "title": "Neil Finn: 'Lorde should leave New Zealand'"},{"date": "2014-03-11T01:39:11Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealanders are to be given the chance to jettison the most visible remaining symbol of their colonial past in a referendum on changing the national flag. In a speech in Wellington on Tuesday, the prime minister, John Key, promised a vote in the next parliamentary term on whether to keep the existing design, which features the union jack and four stars representing the southern cross, or replace it with an alternative, such as the silver fern on a black background or a version of the Maori koru.Key, who personally favours the silver-fern-on-black option made famous by the All Black rugby side, said the time was ripe for \u201cone more step in the evolution of modern New Zealand\u201d. A change to the design of the flag, currently identical to the Australian banner apart from the number and style of stars, would show the country \u201cacknowledging our independence\u201d.\u201cIt\u2019s my belief, and I think one increasingly shared by many New Zealanders, that the design of the New Zealand flag symbolises a colonial and post-colonial era whose time has passed,\u201d he said.Key cited Canada\u2019s shift in 1965, from a union jack adorned flag to a maple leaf symbol, as an example. \u201cThat old flag represented Canada as it was once, rather than as it is now. Similarly, I think our flag represents us as we were once, rather than as we are now.\u201dHe pledged to work with all political parties to establish a working group that would in turn map out a process, which would very likely involve two separate plebiscites \u2013 to determine if a change was wanted and the preferred replacement.Early indications from the main opposition leaders, who have criticised the prime minister\u2019s past flirtations with a change in the flag as an attempt to distract attention from issues such as inequality, are that they will support the process outlined.While republican groups welcome the change as part of a trend towards severing ties with the \u201cmother country\u201d, Key emphasised that he did not see it this way.\u201cWe retain a strong and important constitutional link to the monarchy and I get no sense of any groundswell of support to let that go. Nor could we or would we dispose of the cultural legacy which gave us a proud democracy, a strong legal system and a rich artistic heritage,\u201d he said.\u201cOur status as a constitutional monarchy continues to serve us well. It\u2019s an arrangement that provides stability, continuity and keeps our head of state above party politics.\u201dSean Palmer, chair of the lobby group Monarchy New Zealand, welcomed Key\u2019s commitment to the Commonwealth, saying it was a mistake to \u201ctry to conflate the question of the flag and constitutional status\u201d. The majority of Commonwealth countries did not sport the union jack on their flags, he said, and there was no reason for Prince William and Catherine, who visit New Zealand next month, to regard the announcement as a snub.A redesign is anything but inevitable, however. A Colmar Brunton poll for TVNZ last month found that just 28% of those who expressed an opinion wanted a fresh flag, with 72% preferring the status quo. In a similar poll in 2004, 42% wanted a change.Key had previously hinted a referendum might be held in conjunction with the general election later this year, but instead has used the promise of a vote in the next term as his first gambit since the announcement of the election date earlier this week.The election, in which Key\u2019s National party hopes to win a third consecutive term, will be held on September 20, two months earlier than is usual, to provide sufficient time for any coalition talks ahead of the Brisbane G20 meetings and surrounding events in November, Key said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "John Key", "Politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand to hold referendum on new, \u2018post-colonial\u2019 flag"},{"date": "2014-02-28T02:49:44Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Before arrival, the prospect of a visit to Christchurch \u2013 the city devastated by two earthquakes in 2011 \u2013 was coloured with expectations of visible destruction and tragedy. There\u2019s no camouflaging the damage, but the transitional nature of the city\u2019s new geography has given it new life. Bring your cameras and walking shoes; a weekend in the re-emerging capital of Canterbury is a treat for all lovers of the visual. The largest city of New Zealand\u2019s South Island, and the nation\u2019s third biggest, sleepy Christchurch once prided itself on its Englishness. Nestled around the gentle River Avon, and with a similarly temperate climate to the south of England, the city was famous for a gothic cathedral, green parks and gardens, cricketing whites and an old-money establishment that entertained itself in private clubs.That changed in 2011 when two earthquakes struck at the very heart of Christchurch city, flattening the CBD\u2019s high-rises and most of its inner-urban infrastructure. Two-and-a-half-years later, most of the unrecoverable structures have been pulled down, leaving entire blocks of gravel where buildings used to be. What has sprung up in the ruins, however, are creative solutions to improvised infrastructure, as well as an enthusiastic campaign to transform what remains into an extraordinary public art gallery.Christchurch always was a compact city, and its lack of hills makes it ideal for cycling. The best way to tour the city\u2019s attractions is by bike and on foot \u2013 making a visit an appealing destination for budget travellers. To find out what\u2019s happening in Christchurch, make a morning visit to the tourist information cart currently set up in Cathedral Square. As a city determined to not lose sense of itself despite missing most of its landmarks, there\u2019s an impressive number of festivals and activities going on. Then take a walk through Cathedral Square to Canterbury Museum. The cathedral itself was once the pride of the Garden City \u2013 building commenced in 1864 and attracted early visitors like Anthony Trollope. Of its pretty towers and stained glass, now only a crumbling shell remains \u2013 and a campaign fought by the locals to retain its ruins was lost a few weeks ago. Around it, wire fences decorated with the tribal patterns of street art and a \u201cgreen chapel\u201d constructed of living plants are an immediate symbol of how post-earthquake Christchurch is reinventing itself with art.If you can make it to Christchurch before 23 March, you\u2019ll enjoy the fantastic privilege of seeing Canterbury Museum\u2019s innovative Rise/Oi You! exhibition of street art. The most visited exhibition in the museum\u2019s history, the centrepiece is the world\u2019s largest collection of artwork by Banksy. There\u2019s also a comprehensive collection of work by local and international artists including Ian Strange/Kid Zoom, Milton Springsteen and Thom Buchanan. Brilliantly, the museum has commissioned works by street artists on the walls and gables of the smashed-up city beyond; inner Chirstchurch has been transformed into a gallery with monumental works by the likes of Belgium\u2019s Roa, and Australia\u2019s Rone and Anthony Lister. Maps locating the 25 commissioned artworks are available from the museum, or via a dedicated Rise/Oi You! app.Afterwards, relax in the museum\u2019s attic cafe with views overlooking picturesque Hagley park, decent coffee and the ubiquitous local speciality, the addictively inedible Lolly Cake \u2013 a diabetic coma in cake form. As you explore the Oi You! artworks street by street, you\u2019ll also notice the number of public art spaces and projects supplied by Gap-Filler \u2013 community-led creations to reinvigorate the city\u2019s empty spaces. On my visit, these included a sprung public dancefloor with stereo system you could program with your iPod, an obstacle-course gallery, some guerrilla gardens and, most spectacularly, a free nine-hole mini-golf course set up across the city. End your day by visiting the impressive Pallet Pavilion, a monumental bar structure created from donated shipping pallets. There\u2019s usually live entertainment at the Pavilion and there\u2019s also the unmissable taco truck, Mamacita\u2019s \u2013 the best Tex-Mex you will live to have at a price so cheap, it\u2019s shameful. For post-taco drinks, get to Smash Palace \u2013 a friendly, popular shipping container pub up the road, punnily named after not only the local disaster, but a cult Kiwi movie. If you take in the Canterbury Museum in the morning, explore Hagley park in the afternoon \u2013 it\u2019s on the same side of town. Containing the Christchurch Botanic Gardens, a golf course and other leisure facilities, Hagley\u2019s glorious greenery survived the earthquake. The perfect place for an easy ramble or gentle cycle, this cool, green serenity-generator is truly one of the world\u2019s most beautiful public parks. It\u2019s a fantastic place to imagine a lazy picnic. For dinner, grab a wood-fired pizza from Base in the Re:Start Cashel Mall. Constructed to replace collapsed shopping facilities, the project is a maze of colourful shipping containers housing pop-up boutiques, some excellent coffee houses and quirky eateries. The shops carry everything from designer clothes to truly unusual homeware and souvenirs, while the double-decker containers offer you a rooftop view of the cityThose who wish to grab a post-meal posh drink in less-improvised circumstances are advised to visit Christchurch\u2019s casino, where enthusiastic refurbishment has led to the creation of the Diamond Bar \u2013 a cocktail lounge decorated with more than 3,500 hanging crystals. You\u2019ll certainly be seeing stars after a cosmopolitan or two, but while you might want to get messy, don\u2019t arrive messy: like many of the city\u2019s top-end bars, there is a dress code. When travelling to a devastated city, it\u2019s only proper to visit places created to mourn its loss. Two monuments in close proximity provide this necessary civic service. The unutterably moving 185 Chairs is an open-air installation containing white chairs commemorating each individual victim of the quake. It\u2019s close to the Cardboard Cathedral, which, for all its visual simplicity, is worth a lengthy, quiet visit. Built quickly to replace its ruined stone predecessor, the cathedral is a spectacular creation of industrial cardboard and corrugated plastic, with design and construction donations from the Japanese community, who lost many citizens when the quake hit a Christchurch language school. To round off your visit, take in some more contemporary art with improvised spaces the Art Box and the Physics Room around Tuam and St Asaph streets. Good eats can be found everywhere, from fresh produce picked up at the local grocers to the many restaurants that dot Christchurch. Recommended from this visit are Dose Diner in Tuam Street and the Hummingbird Cafe and Crafted Coffee Company in the Re:Start Cashel Mall; coffee and decent snack will not set you back more than $12.  For an afternoon snack, cross town to the Canterbury Cheesemonger. Hidden behind hedges in the corner of the old Arts Centre, it offers breads, chutneys and cheeses of memorable tastiness.The numerous food trucks around the Pallet Pavilion are fantastic options for budget eaters and foodies alike. High-end Saggio\u2019s Di Vino offers locally sourced gourmet produce in a European menu and King of Snake is the locals\u2019 pick for high-end Asian \u2013 three courses, with the great local wines, will set you back $100 per person.Air New Zealand, Virgin Australia, Jetstar and Qantas all offer flights from Australia to Christchurch, with the majority, though not all, air traffic from Australia via Sydney. Once you\u2019re in Christchurch, everything is accessible by foot and bike. Day trips to outlying towns like Lyttelton are easy on public transport. City tram services are increasing but limited since the earthquake and a tourist tram is a good option for less mobile travellers.Although winters in Christchurch can be as English as its reputation, the rest of the year the city is comfortably temperate \u2013 though, as rain is frequent, a variety of outerwear is always sensible. For more information about festivals and events to coincide with your visit, check out bethere.co.nz.As Christchurch rebuilds, the city\u2019s hotel room rates are incredibly reasonable, with online bargains starting at $130 and the average stay around $180. The Heritage Hotel\u2019s luxury facilities \u2013 including well-appointed rooms and a classy indoor pool \u2013 are good value. Cheaper stay options include several romantic inner-city B&Bs that have undergone refurbishments since the earthquake. Of these, Eliza\u2019s Manor Boutique Hotel is particularly well located. There are also plenty of hostels and Airbnb options for super-budgeteers.", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Earthquakes", "Street art", "Restaurants"], "title": "Three days in Christchurch, New Zealand \u2013 travel guide"},{"date": "2014-02-06T03:53:26Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Neil Finn has some excellent advice for fellow New Zealander Lorde. And it\u2019s this: get out of New Zealand.\u201cThose news teams are idiots,\u201d he sighs, referring to the media scrum that jostled her in the airport upon her recent return from the US. \u201cNew Zealand had, up until that moment, been quite a good environment [for her] because people are not super celebrity-oriented, they pretty much leave you alone. But it keeps reaching this new critical mass and now with winning two Grammys, I think it\u2019s getting pretty intense.\u201d Finn is no stranger to life as a celebrity \u2013 first when roped into his brother Tim\u2019s band Split Enz just as they were becoming an international concern, then enjoying even greater global success leading Crowded House. So, in Finn\u2019s opinion, what should Lorde do? \u201cI\u2019d think she might go well moving to New York or something, where there are more famous people and less bother about it. It wouldn\u2019t be a bad move to get among the centre of operations.\u201dThe reason Finn is discussing the minutia of fame is the imminent release of his third solo album, Dizzy Heights. Its predecessor, One Nil, was released in 2001 \u2013 but it\u2019s not as though he\u2019s been idle in the interim. He\u2019s released two albums under 7 Worlds Collide (a charity collaboration with the likes of Johnny Marr, Eddie Vedder and pretty much all of Wilco), 2004\u2019s Finn Brothers album Everyone is Here, two reunion albums with Crowded House and last year\u2019s self-titled release with the indie band he formed with wife Sharon, the Pajama Club. Throw in tours with all of the above, plus his theatre tour with Paul Kelly, and a song for the first of Peter Jackson\u2019s Hobbit films, and you can understand why he\u2019s maybe had a few other things on his plate. And yet, \u201ca lot of people are asking me why has it been over ten years since I\u2019ve had a solo record,\u201d he sighs. \u201cAnd it\u2019s obvious but it weirds me out a little bit because it doesn\u2019t really feel like that in my head: you need to attach a name to something to give it a sense of identity, but it feels like one album after another in different contexts.\u201dThe distinctions between Finn\u2019s projust are also far from clear cut. The Crowded House reunion album Time on Earth began life as a Finn solo disc with guest bass from Crowded House co-founder Nick Seymour.However, \u201cit just got to the point with that record where Nick got so involved with it and we were enjoying each other\u2019s company, and it we went \u2018it feels like a Crowded House album\u2019. Most of the music could have been almost exactly the same with my name on it. Well, it would have been the same album, essentially.\u201dSo there\u2019s no distinction made when a song is written as to whether it\u2019s a solo song or for some other project?\u201cNo. Generally the pool is the pool and I\u2019ll just draw from it. There is a few things that I park \u2013 for example, there are a few songs parked at the moment for a new Crowded House album, but for some reason I just didn\u2019t feel like going the whole way with them at the moment.\u201dSo there\u2019s a new Crowded House album in the pipeline (\u201cwhich I think will be really good,\u201d he emphasises). In fact, Finn is thoroughly enjoying having a variety of options when it comes to writing. \u201cI believe in bands,\u201d he says simply. \u201cIn some ways it makes the process more continuous and easer because you establish a pattern: you go to rehearsal, you try the new songs, you go home and you know how to finish them now because you\u2019ve just played them.\u201dAnd how about solo?\u201cIn that environment there are any number of possibilities, so it\u2019s actually trickier \u2013 but leaves you more free to push boundaries and explore.\u201dHow does having these sorts of options compare with the process when Crowded House was the sole creative outlet for every song? \u201cWell, we tried everything,\u201d he shrugs. \u201cWe didn\u2019t set restrictions for ourselves that much, though there were songs that didn\u2019t suit the band and we didn\u2019t play them very well. Strangely enough, thinking back, the first few times we tried to play Don\u2019t Dream it\u2019s Over we were terrible. We played it really badly.\u201cIt took Mitchell [Froom, producer] suggesting a new way of approaching the bassline. And he put the organ on there \u2013 that was a big revelation. But we had to really learn how to play that song, and in the end we had to learn how to play other kinds of songs as well.\u201dFor Dizzy Heights Finn had the best of both worlds: a solo album with a core band, but one he knew extremely well. In fact, he was directly responsible for two of them: his sons Elroy and Liam Finn.\u201cI spawned!\u201d he laughs. \u201cBreed your band! It was a nice opportunity that sprung up because they were available and keen. And we are aware that we can play together really well.\u201dWith Sharon also in the core group that made the record, does this mean that the Good Time Finn Family Band and Medicine Show is on the horizon?\u201cWe haven\u2019t done a lot together, and I would be wary of assuming that my view of what would be great would be the same as that of the boys,\u201d he carefully replies, \u201cbut I think we\u2019re working towards a meaningful collaboration at some point, where everyone\u2019s writing as well.\u201dIt would seem that working with one\u2019s kids clearly has some advantages (\u201cwe know we can get through any small family moments, any old sensitivities that crop up \u2026\u201d), but it raises some unique questions too. For example, how does one sit down with your sons and have them run through a song about their father\u2019s eventual death, as with the new album\u2019s In My Blood?Finn\u2019s momentarily taken aback. \u201cIt\u2019s not actually that dark, that song. There\u2019s a heavy subtext but what I\u2019m trying to say in that is that there are certain times when you feel something and unmistakable, and my theory is that you inherit memories from your ancestors: memories of feelings, pure feelings.\u201dVia the culture? \u201cNo no, in the DNA. Essentially I was thinking that if you have a really intense experience, you pass that on to your children and it\u2019s responsible for certain ways that they respond to certain things, little mysterious elements of character. But what the boys think of it, I don\u2019t know.\u201dHave there been moments when the subject matter is too raw, though? \u201cActually, there was a moment on the last record, and it was a slightly distressing moment for me, where I realised I\u2019d really laid myself open. The first track, Tell Me What You Want. To me it seemed to be a very playful, mischievous spin on saying \u2018c\u2019mon baby, this is what I like\u2019 and your baby saying \u2018yeah, tell me what you want\u2019,\u201d he sighs. \u201cBut because we\u2019re a little older and have kids, people thought it was quite creepy. My nephew asked me about it one day \u2013 \u2018eww, that was a bit saucy, isn\u2019t it, that one?\u2019 \u2013 and I just went \u2018aww\u2019. People do pore over things a little more than I may be comfortable with admitting.\u201dHe admits that he still finds the lyrics the most challenging thing (\u201cThere\u2019s still a part of me that thinking I\u2019m just getting by\u201d), especially given those writers he particularly admires. \u201cThe guy from Arctic Monkeys [Alex Turner] is clearly a really good lyricist, of a style. He\u2019s a very clever writer.\u201cI actually think in places Lorde is a very impressive with her language. I hope she has something to write about now that her life\u2019s been transformed to massive celebrity, because she certainly wrote about being a teenager quite well. And there are great lyrics in the rap world: there\u2019s some great wordsmithery, albeit talking about things that I don\u2019t necessarily relate to.\u201dHe confesses that he doesn\u2019t always recognise every pop culture reference in rap music, although Dizzy Heights has a surprising amount of them. Among the reflections in the album's most Crowded House-sounding moment, Recluse, are references to Howard Hughes, Sly Stone and Game of Thrones. \u201cI threw a few references that were rolling around the house when I was writing the album. My wife got really into Game of Thrones for a while \u2013 I never got to watch it.\u201d Well, with the upcoming tour schedule, maybe it\u2019s worth downloading for the flights. \u201cTo be honest, I don\u2019t have much endurance with those series, even if they\u2019re good,\" he says. \"I didn\u2019t even get to the end of Breaking Bad.\"", "tags": ["Lorde", "New Zealand", "Australia news"], "title": "Neil Finn: 'Lorde should leave New Zealand'"},{"date": "2014-03-11T01:39:11Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealanders are to be given the chance to jettison the most visible remaining symbol of their colonial past in a referendum on changing the national flag. In a speech in Wellington on Tuesday, the prime minister, John Key, promised a vote in the next parliamentary term on whether to keep the existing design, which features the union jack and four stars representing the southern cross, or replace it with an alternative, such as the silver fern on a black background or a version of the Maori koru.Key, who personally favours the silver-fern-on-black option made famous by the All Black rugby side, said the time was ripe for \u201cone more step in the evolution of modern New Zealand\u201d. A change to the design of the flag, currently identical to the Australian banner apart from the number and style of stars, would show the country \u201cacknowledging our independence\u201d.\u201cIt\u2019s my belief, and I think one increasingly shared by many New Zealanders, that the design of the New Zealand flag symbolises a colonial and post-colonial era whose time has passed,\u201d he said.Key cited Canada\u2019s shift in 1965, from a union jack adorned flag to a maple leaf symbol, as an example. \u201cThat old flag represented Canada as it was once, rather than as it is now. Similarly, I think our flag represents us as we were once, rather than as we are now.\u201dHe pledged to work with all political parties to establish a working group that would in turn map out a process, which would very likely involve two separate plebiscites \u2013 to determine if a change was wanted and the preferred replacement.Early indications from the main opposition leaders, who have criticised the prime minister\u2019s past flirtations with a change in the flag as an attempt to distract attention from issues such as inequality, are that they will support the process outlined.While republican groups welcome the change as part of a trend towards severing ties with the \u201cmother country\u201d, Key emphasised that he did not see it this way.\u201cWe retain a strong and important constitutional link to the monarchy and I get no sense of any groundswell of support to let that go. Nor could we or would we dispose of the cultural legacy which gave us a proud democracy, a strong legal system and a rich artistic heritage,\u201d he said.\u201cOur status as a constitutional monarchy continues to serve us well. It\u2019s an arrangement that provides stability, continuity and keeps our head of state above party politics.\u201dSean Palmer, chair of the lobby group Monarchy New Zealand, welcomed Key\u2019s commitment to the Commonwealth, saying it was a mistake to \u201ctry to conflate the question of the flag and constitutional status\u201d. The majority of Commonwealth countries did not sport the union jack on their flags, he said, and there was no reason for Prince William and Catherine, who visit New Zealand next month, to regard the announcement as a snub.A redesign is anything but inevitable, however. A Colmar Brunton poll for TVNZ last month found that just 28% of those who expressed an opinion wanted a fresh flag, with 72% preferring the status quo. In a similar poll in 2004, 42% wanted a change.Key had previously hinted a referendum might be held in conjunction with the general election later this year, but instead has used the promise of a vote in the next term as his first gambit since the announcement of the election date earlier this week.The election, in which Key\u2019s National party hopes to win a third consecutive term, will be held on September 20, two months earlier than is usual, to provide sufficient time for any coalition talks ahead of the Brisbane G20 meetings and surrounding events in November, Key said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "John Key", "Politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand to hold referendum on new, \u2018post-colonial\u2019 flag"},{"date": "2014-02-28T02:49:44Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Before arrival, the prospect of a visit to Christchurch \u2013 the city devastated by two earthquakes in 2011 \u2013 was coloured with expectations of visible destruction and tragedy. There\u2019s no camouflaging the damage, but the transitional nature of the city\u2019s new geography has given it new life. Bring your cameras and walking shoes; a weekend in the re-emerging capital of Canterbury is a treat for all lovers of the visual. The largest city of New Zealand\u2019s South Island, and the nation\u2019s third biggest, sleepy Christchurch once prided itself on its Englishness. Nestled around the gentle River Avon, and with a similarly temperate climate to the south of England, the city was famous for a gothic cathedral, green parks and gardens, cricketing whites and an old-money establishment that entertained itself in private clubs.That changed in 2011 when two earthquakes struck at the very heart of Christchurch city, flattening the CBD\u2019s high-rises and most of its inner-urban infrastructure. Two-and-a-half-years later, most of the unrecoverable structures have been pulled down, leaving entire blocks of gravel where buildings used to be. What has sprung up in the ruins, however, are creative solutions to improvised infrastructure, as well as an enthusiastic campaign to transform what remains into an extraordinary public art gallery.Christchurch always was a compact city, and its lack of hills makes it ideal for cycling. The best way to tour the city\u2019s attractions is by bike and on foot \u2013 making a visit an appealing destination for budget travellers. To find out what\u2019s happening in Christchurch, make a morning visit to the tourist information cart currently set up in Cathedral Square. As a city determined to not lose sense of itself despite missing most of its landmarks, there\u2019s an impressive number of festivals and activities going on. Then take a walk through Cathedral Square to Canterbury Museum. The cathedral itself was once the pride of the Garden City \u2013 building commenced in 1864 and attracted early visitors like Anthony Trollope. Of its pretty towers and stained glass, now only a crumbling shell remains \u2013 and a campaign fought by the locals to retain its ruins was lost a few weeks ago. Around it, wire fences decorated with the tribal patterns of street art and a \u201cgreen chapel\u201d constructed of living plants are an immediate symbol of how post-earthquake Christchurch is reinventing itself with art.If you can make it to Christchurch before 23 March, you\u2019ll enjoy the fantastic privilege of seeing Canterbury Museum\u2019s innovative Rise/Oi You! exhibition of street art. The most visited exhibition in the museum\u2019s history, the centrepiece is the world\u2019s largest collection of artwork by Banksy. There\u2019s also a comprehensive collection of work by local and international artists including Ian Strange/Kid Zoom, Milton Springsteen and Thom Buchanan. Brilliantly, the museum has commissioned works by street artists on the walls and gables of the smashed-up city beyond; inner Chirstchurch has been transformed into a gallery with monumental works by the likes of Belgium\u2019s Roa, and Australia\u2019s Rone and Anthony Lister. Maps locating the 25 commissioned artworks are available from the museum, or via a dedicated Rise/Oi You! app.Afterwards, relax in the museum\u2019s attic cafe with views overlooking picturesque Hagley park, decent coffee and the ubiquitous local speciality, the addictively inedible Lolly Cake \u2013 a diabetic coma in cake form. As you explore the Oi You! artworks street by street, you\u2019ll also notice the number of public art spaces and projects supplied by Gap-Filler \u2013 community-led creations to reinvigorate the city\u2019s empty spaces. On my visit, these included a sprung public dancefloor with stereo system you could program with your iPod, an obstacle-course gallery, some guerrilla gardens and, most spectacularly, a free nine-hole mini-golf course set up across the city. End your day by visiting the impressive Pallet Pavilion, a monumental bar structure created from donated shipping pallets. There\u2019s usually live entertainment at the Pavilion and there\u2019s also the unmissable taco truck, Mamacita\u2019s \u2013 the best Tex-Mex you will live to have at a price so cheap, it\u2019s shameful. For post-taco drinks, get to Smash Palace \u2013 a friendly, popular shipping container pub up the road, punnily named after not only the local disaster, but a cult Kiwi movie. If you take in the Canterbury Museum in the morning, explore Hagley park in the afternoon \u2013 it\u2019s on the same side of town. Containing the Christchurch Botanic Gardens, a golf course and other leisure facilities, Hagley\u2019s glorious greenery survived the earthquake. The perfect place for an easy ramble or gentle cycle, this cool, green serenity-generator is truly one of the world\u2019s most beautiful public parks. It\u2019s a fantastic place to imagine a lazy picnic. For dinner, grab a wood-fired pizza from Base in the Re:Start Cashel Mall. Constructed to replace collapsed shopping facilities, the project is a maze of colourful shipping containers housing pop-up boutiques, some excellent coffee houses and quirky eateries. The shops carry everything from designer clothes to truly unusual homeware and souvenirs, while the double-decker containers offer you a rooftop view of the cityThose who wish to grab a post-meal posh drink in less-improvised circumstances are advised to visit Christchurch\u2019s casino, where enthusiastic refurbishment has led to the creation of the Diamond Bar \u2013 a cocktail lounge decorated with more than 3,500 hanging crystals. You\u2019ll certainly be seeing stars after a cosmopolitan or two, but while you might want to get messy, don\u2019t arrive messy: like many of the city\u2019s top-end bars, there is a dress code. When travelling to a devastated city, it\u2019s only proper to visit places created to mourn its loss. Two monuments in close proximity provide this necessary civic service. The unutterably moving 185 Chairs is an open-air installation containing white chairs commemorating each individual victim of the quake. It\u2019s close to the Cardboard Cathedral, which, for all its visual simplicity, is worth a lengthy, quiet visit. Built quickly to replace its ruined stone predecessor, the cathedral is a spectacular creation of industrial cardboard and corrugated plastic, with design and construction donations from the Japanese community, who lost many citizens when the quake hit a Christchurch language school. To round off your visit, take in some more contemporary art with improvised spaces the Art Box and the Physics Room around Tuam and St Asaph streets. Good eats can be found everywhere, from fresh produce picked up at the local grocers to the many restaurants that dot Christchurch. Recommended from this visit are Dose Diner in Tuam Street and the Hummingbird Cafe and Crafted Coffee Company in the Re:Start Cashel Mall; coffee and decent snack will not set you back more than $12.  For an afternoon snack, cross town to the Canterbury Cheesemonger. Hidden behind hedges in the corner of the old Arts Centre, it offers breads, chutneys and cheeses of memorable tastiness.The numerous food trucks around the Pallet Pavilion are fantastic options for budget eaters and foodies alike. High-end Saggio\u2019s Di Vino offers locally sourced gourmet produce in a European menu and King of Snake is the locals\u2019 pick for high-end Asian \u2013 three courses, with the great local wines, will set you back $100 per person.Air New Zealand, Virgin Australia, Jetstar and Qantas all offer flights from Australia to Christchurch, with the majority, though not all, air traffic from Australia via Sydney. Once you\u2019re in Christchurch, everything is accessible by foot and bike. Day trips to outlying towns like Lyttelton are easy on public transport. City tram services are increasing but limited since the earthquake and a tourist tram is a good option for less mobile travellers.Although winters in Christchurch can be as English as its reputation, the rest of the year the city is comfortably temperate \u2013 though, as rain is frequent, a variety of outerwear is always sensible. For more information about festivals and events to coincide with your visit, check out bethere.co.nz.As Christchurch rebuilds, the city\u2019s hotel room rates are incredibly reasonable, with online bargains starting at $130 and the average stay around $180. The Heritage Hotel\u2019s luxury facilities \u2013 including well-appointed rooms and a classy indoor pool \u2013 are good value. Cheaper stay options include several romantic inner-city B&Bs that have undergone refurbishments since the earthquake. Of these, Eliza\u2019s Manor Boutique Hotel is particularly well located. There are also plenty of hostels and Airbnb options for super-budgeteers.", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Earthquakes", "Street art", "Restaurants"], "title": "Three days in Christchurch, New Zealand \u2013 travel guide"},{"date": "2014-02-11T04:15:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealanders living overseas, estimated to number as many as one million, will become a serious political force in their homeland if a newly formed party gets its way.The Expatriate Party of New Zealand, based in Perth, says it has gained the minimum 500 paid members required to register a party with New Zealand\u2019s Electoral Commission.\u201cWe\u2019ve formed on behalf of the 200,000 voiceless New Zealanders [living in Australia] who are currently ineligible to vote in New Zealand,\u201d party spokesman Nick Teulon said.New Zealand law bans citizens who have been overseas for more than three years from voting in the country\u2019s general elections \u2013 some 20% of the population according to the party. The Expats\u2019 first move will be to lobby for that ban to be overturned.The voting ban, in place since 1956, has been made archaic by advances in technology and social media, Teulon said.\u201cAround 83% of Kiwis living overseas keep up with New Zealand news and current affairs. A lot of [expats] own land in New Zealand, go back on holidays regularly, have strong ties to the country,\u201d he said.\u201cThis is about taking an interest in your homeland.\u201dNew Zealand\u2019s national statistics office says it is hard to measure the number of expatriates, but in May 2012 the government announced that outflows to Australia had reached a new high: 53,500 annually.Some 2.2 million people voted in the last New Zealand election in 2011, which brought the conservative John Key to power.The new party plans to run in this year\u2019s general election on a platform of increasing the rights of New Zealanders overseas. Kiwis who arrived in Australia after February 2001 cannot receive social security benefits if they are unemployed or fall ill.\u201cWe are not advocating the dole,\u201d Teulon said. \u201cNew Zealanders in Australia are, however, deeply concerned that successive New Zealand governments have failed to actively and effectively advocate overseas for core residency, health and education rights and they expect the New Zealand government to do so.\u201dHe cited Australia\u2019s national disability insurance scheme as an example \u2013 New Zealanders living in Australia will be liable for the levy to fund it but do not qualify for its benefits.Teulon says the party has established a delegation in London and is identifying prominent Kiwis overseas to tap for leadership positions.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Politics", "Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "Expatriate Party of New Zealand formed to represent Kiwis overseas"},{"date": "2014-02-06T03:53:26Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Neil Finn has some excellent advice for fellow New Zealander Lorde. And it\u2019s this: get out of New Zealand.\u201cThose news teams are idiots,\u201d he sighs, referring to the media scrum that jostled her in the airport upon her recent return from the US. \u201cNew Zealand had, up until that moment, been quite a good environment [for her] because people are not super celebrity-oriented, they pretty much leave you alone. But it keeps reaching this new critical mass and now with winning two Grammys, I think it\u2019s getting pretty intense.\u201d Finn is no stranger to life as a celebrity \u2013 first when roped into his brother Tim\u2019s band Split Enz just as they were becoming an international concern, then enjoying even greater global success leading Crowded House. So, in Finn\u2019s opinion, what should Lorde do? \u201cI\u2019d think she might go well moving to New York or something, where there are more famous people and less bother about it. It wouldn\u2019t be a bad move to get among the centre of operations.\u201dThe reason Finn is discussing the minutia of fame is the imminent release of his third solo album, Dizzy Heights. Its predecessor, One Nil, was released in 2001 \u2013 but it\u2019s not as though he\u2019s been idle in the interim. He\u2019s released two albums under 7 Worlds Collide (a charity collaboration with the likes of Johnny Marr, Eddie Vedder and pretty much all of Wilco), 2004\u2019s Finn Brothers album Everyone is Here, two reunion albums with Crowded House and last year\u2019s self-titled release with the indie band he formed with wife Sharon, the Pajama Club. Throw in tours with all of the above, plus his theatre tour with Paul Kelly, and a song for the first of Peter Jackson\u2019s Hobbit films, and you can understand why he\u2019s maybe had a few other things on his plate. And yet, \u201ca lot of people are asking me why has it been over ten years since I\u2019ve had a solo record,\u201d he sighs. \u201cAnd it\u2019s obvious but it weirds me out a little bit because it doesn\u2019t really feel like that in my head: you need to attach a name to something to give it a sense of identity, but it feels like one album after another in different contexts.\u201dThe distinctions between Finn\u2019s projust are also far from clear cut. The Crowded House reunion album Time on Earth began life as a Finn solo disc with guest bass from Crowded House co-founder Nick Seymour.However, \u201cit just got to the point with that record where Nick got so involved with it and we were enjoying each other\u2019s company, and it we went \u2018it feels like a Crowded House album\u2019. Most of the music could have been almost exactly the same with my name on it. Well, it would have been the same album, essentially.\u201dSo there\u2019s no distinction made when a song is written as to whether it\u2019s a solo song or for some other project?\u201cNo. Generally the pool is the pool and I\u2019ll just draw from it. There is a few things that I park \u2013 for example, there are a few songs parked at the moment for a new Crowded House album, but for some reason I just didn\u2019t feel like going the whole way with them at the moment.\u201dSo there\u2019s a new Crowded House album in the pipeline (\u201cwhich I think will be really good,\u201d he emphasises). In fact, Finn is thoroughly enjoying having a variety of options when it comes to writing. \u201cI believe in bands,\u201d he says simply. \u201cIn some ways it makes the process more continuous and easer because you establish a pattern: you go to rehearsal, you try the new songs, you go home and you know how to finish them now because you\u2019ve just played them.\u201dAnd how about solo?\u201cIn that environment there are any number of possibilities, so it\u2019s actually trickier \u2013 but leaves you more free to push boundaries and explore.\u201dHow does having these sorts of options compare with the process when Crowded House was the sole creative outlet for every song? \u201cWell, we tried everything,\u201d he shrugs. \u201cWe didn\u2019t set restrictions for ourselves that much, though there were songs that didn\u2019t suit the band and we didn\u2019t play them very well. Strangely enough, thinking back, the first few times we tried to play Don\u2019t Dream it\u2019s Over we were terrible. We played it really badly.\u201cIt took Mitchell [Froom, producer] suggesting a new way of approaching the bassline. And he put the organ on there \u2013 that was a big revelation. But we had to really learn how to play that song, and in the end we had to learn how to play other kinds of songs as well.\u201dFor Dizzy Heights Finn had the best of both worlds: a solo album with a core band, but one he knew extremely well. In fact, he was directly responsible for two of them: his sons Elroy and Liam Finn.\u201cI spawned!\u201d he laughs. \u201cBreed your band! It was a nice opportunity that sprung up because they were available and keen. And we are aware that we can play together really well.\u201dWith Sharon also in the core group that made the record, does this mean that the Good Time Finn Family Band and Medicine Show is on the horizon?\u201cWe haven\u2019t done a lot together, and I would be wary of assuming that my view of what would be great would be the same as that of the boys,\u201d he carefully replies, \u201cbut I think we\u2019re working towards a meaningful collaboration at some point, where everyone\u2019s writing as well.\u201dIt would seem that working with one\u2019s kids clearly has some advantages (\u201cwe know we can get through any small family moments, any old sensitivities that crop up \u2026\u201d), but it raises some unique questions too. For example, how does one sit down with your sons and have them run through a song about their father\u2019s eventual death, as with the new album\u2019s In My Blood?Finn\u2019s momentarily taken aback. \u201cIt\u2019s not actually that dark, that song. There\u2019s a heavy subtext but what I\u2019m trying to say in that is that there are certain times when you feel something and unmistakable, and my theory is that you inherit memories from your ancestors: memories of feelings, pure feelings.\u201dVia the culture? \u201cNo no, in the DNA. Essentially I was thinking that if you have a really intense experience, you pass that on to your children and it\u2019s responsible for certain ways that they respond to certain things, little mysterious elements of character. But what the boys think of it, I don\u2019t know.\u201dHave there been moments when the subject matter is too raw, though? \u201cActually, there was a moment on the last record, and it was a slightly distressing moment for me, where I realised I\u2019d really laid myself open. The first track, Tell Me What You Want. To me it seemed to be a very playful, mischievous spin on saying \u2018c\u2019mon baby, this is what I like\u2019 and your baby saying \u2018yeah, tell me what you want\u2019,\u201d he sighs. \u201cBut because we\u2019re a little older and have kids, people thought it was quite creepy. My nephew asked me about it one day \u2013 \u2018eww, that was a bit saucy, isn\u2019t it, that one?\u2019 \u2013 and I just went \u2018aww\u2019. People do pore over things a little more than I may be comfortable with admitting.\u201dHe admits that he still finds the lyrics the most challenging thing (\u201cThere\u2019s still a part of me that thinking I\u2019m just getting by\u201d), especially given those writers he particularly admires. \u201cThe guy from Arctic Monkeys [Alex Turner] is clearly a really good lyricist, of a style. He\u2019s a very clever writer.\u201cI actually think in places Lorde is a very impressive with her language. I hope she has something to write about now that her life\u2019s been transformed to massive celebrity, because she certainly wrote about being a teenager quite well. And there are great lyrics in the rap world: there\u2019s some great wordsmithery, albeit talking about things that I don\u2019t necessarily relate to.\u201dHe confesses that he doesn\u2019t always recognise every pop culture reference in rap music, although Dizzy Heights has a surprising amount of them. Among the reflections in the album's most Crowded House-sounding moment, Recluse, are references to Howard Hughes, Sly Stone and Game of Thrones. \u201cI threw a few references that were rolling around the house when I was writing the album. My wife got really into Game of Thrones for a while \u2013 I never got to watch it.\u201d Well, with the upcoming tour schedule, maybe it\u2019s worth downloading for the flights. \u201cTo be honest, I don\u2019t have much endurance with those series, even if they\u2019re good,\" he says. \"I didn\u2019t even get to the end of Breaking Bad.\"", "tags": ["Lorde", "New Zealand", "Australia news"], "title": "Neil Finn: 'Lorde should leave New Zealand'"},{"date": "2014-03-11T01:39:11Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealanders are to be given the chance to jettison the most visible remaining symbol of their colonial past in a referendum on changing the national flag. In a speech in Wellington on Tuesday, the prime minister, John Key, promised a vote in the next parliamentary term on whether to keep the existing design, which features the union jack and four stars representing the southern cross, or replace it with an alternative, such as the silver fern on a black background or a version of the Maori koru.Key, who personally favours the silver-fern-on-black option made famous by the All Black rugby side, said the time was ripe for \u201cone more step in the evolution of modern New Zealand\u201d. A change to the design of the flag, currently identical to the Australian banner apart from the number and style of stars, would show the country \u201cacknowledging our independence\u201d.\u201cIt\u2019s my belief, and I think one increasingly shared by many New Zealanders, that the design of the New Zealand flag symbolises a colonial and post-colonial era whose time has passed,\u201d he said.Key cited Canada\u2019s shift in 1965, from a union jack adorned flag to a maple leaf symbol, as an example. \u201cThat old flag represented Canada as it was once, rather than as it is now. Similarly, I think our flag represents us as we were once, rather than as we are now.\u201dHe pledged to work with all political parties to establish a working group that would in turn map out a process, which would very likely involve two separate plebiscites \u2013 to determine if a change was wanted and the preferred replacement.Early indications from the main opposition leaders, who have criticised the prime minister\u2019s past flirtations with a change in the flag as an attempt to distract attention from issues such as inequality, are that they will support the process outlined.While republican groups welcome the change as part of a trend towards severing ties with the \u201cmother country\u201d, Key emphasised that he did not see it this way.\u201cWe retain a strong and important constitutional link to the monarchy and I get no sense of any groundswell of support to let that go. Nor could we or would we dispose of the cultural legacy which gave us a proud democracy, a strong legal system and a rich artistic heritage,\u201d he said.\u201cOur status as a constitutional monarchy continues to serve us well. It\u2019s an arrangement that provides stability, continuity and keeps our head of state above party politics.\u201dSean Palmer, chair of the lobby group Monarchy New Zealand, welcomed Key\u2019s commitment to the Commonwealth, saying it was a mistake to \u201ctry to conflate the question of the flag and constitutional status\u201d. The majority of Commonwealth countries did not sport the union jack on their flags, he said, and there was no reason for Prince William and Catherine, who visit New Zealand next month, to regard the announcement as a snub.A redesign is anything but inevitable, however. A Colmar Brunton poll for TVNZ last month found that just 28% of those who expressed an opinion wanted a fresh flag, with 72% preferring the status quo. In a similar poll in 2004, 42% wanted a change.Key had previously hinted a referendum might be held in conjunction with the general election later this year, but instead has used the promise of a vote in the next term as his first gambit since the announcement of the election date earlier this week.The election, in which Key\u2019s National party hopes to win a third consecutive term, will be held on September 20, two months earlier than is usual, to provide sufficient time for any coalition talks ahead of the Brisbane G20 meetings and surrounding events in November, Key said.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "John Key", "Politics", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "New Zealand to hold referendum on new, \u2018post-colonial\u2019 flag"},{"date": "2014-02-28T02:49:44Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Before arrival, the prospect of a visit to Christchurch \u2013 the city devastated by two earthquakes in 2011 \u2013 was coloured with expectations of visible destruction and tragedy. There\u2019s no camouflaging the damage, but the transitional nature of the city\u2019s new geography has given it new life. Bring your cameras and walking shoes; a weekend in the re-emerging capital of Canterbury is a treat for all lovers of the visual. The largest city of New Zealand\u2019s South Island, and the nation\u2019s third biggest, sleepy Christchurch once prided itself on its Englishness. Nestled around the gentle River Avon, and with a similarly temperate climate to the south of England, the city was famous for a gothic cathedral, green parks and gardens, cricketing whites and an old-money establishment that entertained itself in private clubs.That changed in 2011 when two earthquakes struck at the very heart of Christchurch city, flattening the CBD\u2019s high-rises and most of its inner-urban infrastructure. Two-and-a-half-years later, most of the unrecoverable structures have been pulled down, leaving entire blocks of gravel where buildings used to be. What has sprung up in the ruins, however, are creative solutions to improvised infrastructure, as well as an enthusiastic campaign to transform what remains into an extraordinary public art gallery.Christchurch always was a compact city, and its lack of hills makes it ideal for cycling. The best way to tour the city\u2019s attractions is by bike and on foot \u2013 making a visit an appealing destination for budget travellers. To find out what\u2019s happening in Christchurch, make a morning visit to the tourist information cart currently set up in Cathedral Square. As a city determined to not lose sense of itself despite missing most of its landmarks, there\u2019s an impressive number of festivals and activities going on. Then take a walk through Cathedral Square to Canterbury Museum. The cathedral itself was once the pride of the Garden City \u2013 building commenced in 1864 and attracted early visitors like Anthony Trollope. Of its pretty towers and stained glass, now only a crumbling shell remains \u2013 and a campaign fought by the locals to retain its ruins was lost a few weeks ago. Around it, wire fences decorated with the tribal patterns of street art and a \u201cgreen chapel\u201d constructed of living plants are an immediate symbol of how post-earthquake Christchurch is reinventing itself with art.If you can make it to Christchurch before 23 March, you\u2019ll enjoy the fantastic privilege of seeing Canterbury Museum\u2019s innovative Rise/Oi You! exhibition of street art. The most visited exhibition in the museum\u2019s history, the centrepiece is the world\u2019s largest collection of artwork by Banksy. There\u2019s also a comprehensive collection of work by local and international artists including Ian Strange/Kid Zoom, Milton Springsteen and Thom Buchanan. Brilliantly, the museum has commissioned works by street artists on the walls and gables of the smashed-up city beyond; inner Chirstchurch has been transformed into a gallery with monumental works by the likes of Belgium\u2019s Roa, and Australia\u2019s Rone and Anthony Lister. Maps locating the 25 commissioned artworks are available from the museum, or via a dedicated Rise/Oi You! app.Afterwards, relax in the museum\u2019s attic cafe with views overlooking picturesque Hagley park, decent coffee and the ubiquitous local speciality, the addictively inedible Lolly Cake \u2013 a diabetic coma in cake form. As you explore the Oi You! artworks street by street, you\u2019ll also notice the number of public art spaces and projects supplied by Gap-Filler \u2013 community-led creations to reinvigorate the city\u2019s empty spaces. On my visit, these included a sprung public dancefloor with stereo system you could program with your iPod, an obstacle-course gallery, some guerrilla gardens and, most spectacularly, a free nine-hole mini-golf course set up across the city. End your day by visiting the impressive Pallet Pavilion, a monumental bar structure created from donated shipping pallets. There\u2019s usually live entertainment at the Pavilion and there\u2019s also the unmissable taco truck, Mamacita\u2019s \u2013 the best Tex-Mex you will live to have at a price so cheap, it\u2019s shameful. For post-taco drinks, get to Smash Palace \u2013 a friendly, popular shipping container pub up the road, punnily named after not only the local disaster, but a cult Kiwi movie. If you take in the Canterbury Museum in the morning, explore Hagley park in the afternoon \u2013 it\u2019s on the same side of town. Containing the Christchurch Botanic Gardens, a golf course and other leisure facilities, Hagley\u2019s glorious greenery survived the earthquake. The perfect place for an easy ramble or gentle cycle, this cool, green serenity-generator is truly one of the world\u2019s most beautiful public parks. It\u2019s a fantastic place to imagine a lazy picnic. For dinner, grab a wood-fired pizza from Base in the Re:Start Cashel Mall. Constructed to replace collapsed shopping facilities, the project is a maze of colourful shipping containers housing pop-up boutiques, some excellent coffee houses and quirky eateries. The shops carry everything from designer clothes to truly unusual homeware and souvenirs, while the double-decker containers offer you a rooftop view of the cityThose who wish to grab a post-meal posh drink in less-improvised circumstances are advised to visit Christchurch\u2019s casino, where enthusiastic refurbishment has led to the creation of the Diamond Bar \u2013 a cocktail lounge decorated with more than 3,500 hanging crystals. You\u2019ll certainly be seeing stars after a cosmopolitan or two, but while you might want to get messy, don\u2019t arrive messy: like many of the city\u2019s top-end bars, there is a dress code. When travelling to a devastated city, it\u2019s only proper to visit places created to mourn its loss. Two monuments in close proximity provide this necessary civic service. The unutterably moving 185 Chairs is an open-air installation containing white chairs commemorating each individual victim of the quake. It\u2019s close to the Cardboard Cathedral, which, for all its visual simplicity, is worth a lengthy, quiet visit. Built quickly to replace its ruined stone predecessor, the cathedral is a spectacular creation of industrial cardboard and corrugated plastic, with design and construction donations from the Japanese community, who lost many citizens when the quake hit a Christchurch language school. To round off your visit, take in some more contemporary art with improvised spaces the Art Box and the Physics Room around Tuam and St Asaph streets. Good eats can be found everywhere, from fresh produce picked up at the local grocers to the many restaurants that dot Christchurch. Recommended from this visit are Dose Diner in Tuam Street and the Hummingbird Cafe and Crafted Coffee Company in the Re:Start Cashel Mall; coffee and decent snack will not set you back more than $12.  For an afternoon snack, cross town to the Canterbury Cheesemonger. Hidden behind hedges in the corner of the old Arts Centre, it offers breads, chutneys and cheeses of memorable tastiness.The numerous food trucks around the Pallet Pavilion are fantastic options for budget eaters and foodies alike. High-end Saggio\u2019s Di Vino offers locally sourced gourmet produce in a European menu and King of Snake is the locals\u2019 pick for high-end Asian \u2013 three courses, with the great local wines, will set you back $100 per person.Air New Zealand, Virgin Australia, Jetstar and Qantas all offer flights from Australia to Christchurch, with the majority, though not all, air traffic from Australia via Sydney. Once you\u2019re in Christchurch, everything is accessible by foot and bike. Day trips to outlying towns like Lyttelton are easy on public transport. City tram services are increasing but limited since the earthquake and a tourist tram is a good option for less mobile travellers.Although winters in Christchurch can be as English as its reputation, the rest of the year the city is comfortably temperate \u2013 though, as rain is frequent, a variety of outerwear is always sensible. For more information about festivals and events to coincide with your visit, check out bethere.co.nz.As Christchurch rebuilds, the city\u2019s hotel room rates are incredibly reasonable, with online bargains starting at $130 and the average stay around $180. The Heritage Hotel\u2019s luxury facilities \u2013 including well-appointed rooms and a classy indoor pool \u2013 are good value. Cheaper stay options include several romantic inner-city B&Bs that have undergone refurbishments since the earthquake. Of these, Eliza\u2019s Manor Boutique Hotel is particularly well located. There are also plenty of hostels and Airbnb options for super-budgeteers.", "tags": ["New Zealand holidays", "Short breaks", "Hotels", "Earthquakes", "Street art", "Restaurants"], "title": "Three days in Christchurch, New Zealand \u2013 travel guide"},{"date": "2014-02-11T04:15:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealanders living overseas, estimated to number as many as one million, will become a serious political force in their homeland if a newly formed party gets its way.The Expatriate Party of New Zealand, based in Perth, says it has gained the minimum 500 paid members required to register a party with New Zealand\u2019s Electoral Commission.\u201cWe\u2019ve formed on behalf of the 200,000 voiceless New Zealanders [living in Australia] who are currently ineligible to vote in New Zealand,\u201d party spokesman Nick Teulon said.New Zealand law bans citizens who have been overseas for more than three years from voting in the country\u2019s general elections \u2013 some 20% of the population according to the party. The Expats\u2019 first move will be to lobby for that ban to be overturned.The voting ban, in place since 1956, has been made archaic by advances in technology and social media, Teulon said.\u201cAround 83% of Kiwis living overseas keep up with New Zealand news and current affairs. A lot of [expats] own land in New Zealand, go back on holidays regularly, have strong ties to the country,\u201d he said.\u201cThis is about taking an interest in your homeland.\u201dNew Zealand\u2019s national statistics office says it is hard to measure the number of expatriates, but in May 2012 the government announced that outflows to Australia had reached a new high: 53,500 annually.Some 2.2 million people voted in the last New Zealand election in 2011, which brought the conservative John Key to power.The new party plans to run in this year\u2019s general election on a platform of increasing the rights of New Zealanders overseas. Kiwis who arrived in Australia after February 2001 cannot receive social security benefits if they are unemployed or fall ill.\u201cWe are not advocating the dole,\u201d Teulon said. \u201cNew Zealanders in Australia are, however, deeply concerned that successive New Zealand governments have failed to actively and effectively advocate overseas for core residency, health and education rights and they expect the New Zealand government to do so.\u201dHe cited Australia\u2019s national disability insurance scheme as an example \u2013 New Zealanders living in Australia will be liable for the levy to fund it but do not qualify for its benefits.Teulon says the party has established a delegation in London and is identifying prominent Kiwis overseas to tap for leadership positions.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Politics", "Australia news", "Australian politics"], "title": "Expatriate Party of New Zealand formed to represent Kiwis overseas"},{"date": "2014-02-09T19:54:51Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A British surfer has told how he fought off a shark after it attacked him off the coast of New Zealand's South Island, leaving him with severe leg injuries.Darren Mills, 28, said he was paddling in Porpoise Bay on Friday when he felt a thump from what he believed was a great white shark.\"I looked around and could see a shark had clamped down,\" said Mills, who is originally from Crawley, West Sussex, but now lives in Queenstown, New Zealand.\"When it hit me and sort of pushed me out and around I realised what was going on. I tried to punch it but it was more like a push.\"Mills made it ashore, where friends applied a tourniquet. Recovering in hospital, he told New Zealand's One News that he had a puncture wound below his knee which had gone through to a tendon, and four lacerations up his leg.The surfer said it may take him some time to go back in to the sea again after the \"scary\" experience. \"When it first happened I said I wasn't even getting back in the bath tub. I just feel really, really lucky.\"Experts said Mills did the right thing in trying to punch the shark and he may have been saved from worse injuries by wearing a full body suit.The incident comes two weeks after James Grant, a junior doctor, fended off a shark at another bay to the east of Friday's incident and stitched up his own wound on the beach before enjoying a pint of beer at a nearby pub.Grant was spearfishing with friends near Colac Bay when he was attacked by what he believed was a sevengill shark. The 24-year-old was in about two metres (6ft) of murky water when he felt a tug on his leg, which he initially thought was a friend playing a trick on him. \"I looked behind to see who it was and got a bit of a shock,\" he told Radio New Zealand.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Sharks"], "title": "Briton fights off shark while surfing in New Zealand"},{"date": "2014-06-05T08:35:27Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand's non-political, highly personalised local government culture has many advantages , but the considerable diversity in council operations also means things can go badly wrong.First some background. New Zealand councils are responsible for delivering fewer services than their UK counterparts, and they are largely financially self-sufficient from central government. But they are, nevertheless, delivering services based on more than 50 different pieces of central government legislation.The country's 78 councils also vary in size: the largest, Auckland city council, serves 1.5 million people and is the largest in the southern hemisphere; our smallest serves only 640 people. How these councils manage service delivery clearly differs dramatically.Those differences are only likely to increase as, although New Zealand has a very stable population, we are experiencing significant population movement from areas with low or no economic growth into high growth areas such as Auckland. That means some councils are stagnating or shrinking and the populations who remain are ageing, while others are growing significantly.Unlike the UK, rates here are not capped. A council sets rates based on their budget for delivering the services in their long term and annual plans. Rates have consistently risen, but areas with declining and ageing populations face significant problems finding the money to meet rising demand.The New Zealand system is free from party political affiliation. Chief executives need to actively seek, rather than assume, policy consensus. The lack of peer learning from within a political party also means that there can be a knowledge gap around the rules of governance for new mayors and councillors.But here the legal relationship between the chief executive and elected representatives is set by the 2002 Local Government Act: the role of the mayor is to provide leadership to the elected members and the people in the district, while responsibility for management of council operations lies with the chief executive, the only council employee, who usually works on a five year contract.The need for clarity on the governance and management roles, and transparent decision making, has been brought into sharp focus by an Office of the Auditor General inquiry into the Mangawhai wastewater scheme operated by Kaipara district council, 100 miles (163km) north of Auckland. The report identified significant failings in processes by councillors and managers and eventually led to government intervention. The need for clear lines of accountability and clarity of roles and responsibilities was stressed.Achieving this clarity and securing mentoring support is only complicated by an increasing demand from central government for higher levels of efficiency and effectiveness, which has seen some councils turn to outsourcing. This has, paradoxically, increased the complexity of the accountability arrangements.A successful and effective management-governance relationship is not easy to achieve in these difficult circumstances. Senior leaders, both executive and political, need to invest time coaching and mentoring their peers and colleagues, and this can be difficult for small councils with limited resources. No doubt that is not unique to New Zealand.Karen Thomas is chief executive of the New Zealand Society of Local Government Managers Join the Public Leaders Network for more comment, analysis and job opportunities, direct to your inbox. Follow us on twitter via @Guardianpublic.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Local leadership"], "title": "New Zealand councils: local government beyond politics"},{"date": "2014-09-19T05:19:33Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "There are 70 electorates in New Zealand, including seven Maori electorates that span the country (Maori voters can choose to be on the Maori or general roll). Voters have two ticks: one for an electorate MP, the other for a party. The party vote determines the composition of parliament, with the remaining places in the 120-seat parliament filled from party lists to achieve that.Parties only qualify for list seats if they satisfy at least one of two criteria: reaching 5% of the overall party vote, or winning an electorate seat.New Zealand\u2019s MMP (mixed member proportional) electoral system, introduced in 1996 to replace the first-past-the-post method, usually results in days or weeks of negotiation (aka horse-trading) following the election. A range of possible combinations and configurations are possible. It is rare in MMP-style systems for a single party to receive an absolute majority, and has not happened in New Zealand in the 18 years since the electoral overhaul took place. The National party has frequently polled over 50% in the last few years but goes into the election averaging about 46.5%. A result shy of 50% may nevertheless be enough to win a majority, especially if one or more parties fall narrowly short of the 5% threshold and win no electorate. Their percentage support is proportionately distributed among the surviving parties.The Helen Clark led Labour party in 2002 was, like National in 2014, \u201cin striking distance of getting more than half the seats in parliament\u201d, says Nigel Roberts, a political scientist and adjunct professor at Victoria University of Wellington, but their hopes of ruling alone were \u201ccompletely skedaddled\u201d after the release of a damaging book by Nicky Hagar \u2013 who also wrote Dirty Politics, which derailed the first part of the current campaign. \u201cJudging by the recent polls, I\u2019ll be surprised if National were to get an absolute majority,\u201d says Roberts.Likelihood: lowNational could enter a formal coalition with one of two parties: New Zealand First or the Conservatives, though the latter is polling slightly below the magic 5%. This would see members of the smaller party take full roles in cabinet and pledge collective responsibility. Other smaller parties may still negotiate support arrangements.Likelihood: decent chance Labour are struggling, but not yet out of the race. They have long indicated a preference for a full coalition with the Green party, but they would almost certainly need New Zealand First\u2019s support \u2013 whether in a full-blown coalition or as a support party outside cabinet \u2013 to make it work. On top of that they\u2019d very likely need support in some form from the Kim Dotcom backed Internet Mana party and perhaps even the Maori party.Likelihood: You never know A familiar sight in post-MMP politics is parties agreeing to \u201cconfidence and supply\u201d arrangements, in which support parties guarantee to back the government in confidence votes and on the budget in exchange for policy concessions and ministerial portfolios outside cabinet. This is the model John Key\u2019s National party has adopted in both its past two terms, with support coming from the Maori party\u2019s handful of MPs and one-man bands ACT and United Future, and the option they hope to repeat after Saturday.Likelihood: reasonableBoth main parties might fail to assemble the support to achieve a parliamentary majority, and New Zealand First\u2019s mercurial leader, Winston Peters, who pointedly refuses to discuss post-election deals during campaigning, may announce that his party will give no guarantees to anyone and instead sit on the crossbenches. In that scenario, National, with or without support parties, could chance its arm and go to the governor general asking for parliament to be recalled so that it can test its viability. The approach \u2013 a version of which is being played out in Sweden at the moment \u2013 brings serious risks of instability, however, and international experience suggests that, should another election be required in short time, smaller parties are likely to be punished.\u201cThe danger is that at some point in the future, not having an absolute majority could lead to the defeat of a government,\u201d says Roberts. \u201cOn the other hand, no government in New Zealand has been defeated on a vote of confidence since 1928. And not once under MMP has any vote of confidence realistically come anywhere near succeeding.\u201dLikelihood: lowNew Zealand hasn\u2019t seen a grand coalition in almost 100 years, and it\u2019s not about to happen now, with National and Labour having ruled out the idea, despite some observing that in a number of areas their policies are more compatible with each other\u2019s than with their more likely coalition partners.Likelihood: Not in peacetime", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "John Key"], "title": "New Zealand election: what could happen?"},{"date": "2014-09-19T05:19:33Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "There are 70 electorates in New Zealand, including seven Maori electorates that span the country (Maori voters can choose to be on the Maori or general roll). Voters have two ticks: one for an electorate MP, the other for a party. The party vote determines the composition of parliament, with the remaining places in the 120-seat parliament filled from party lists to achieve that.Parties only qualify for list seats if they satisfy at least one of two criteria: reaching 5% of the overall party vote, or winning an electorate seat.New Zealand\u2019s MMP (mixed member proportional) electoral system, introduced in 1996 to replace the first-past-the-post method, usually results in days or weeks of negotiation (aka horse-trading) following the election. A range of possible combinations and configurations are possible. It is rare in MMP-style systems for a single party to receive an absolute majority, and has not happened in New Zealand in the 18 years since the electoral overhaul took place. The National party has frequently polled over 50% in the last few years but goes into the election averaging about 46.5%. A result shy of 50% may nevertheless be enough to win a majority, especially if one or more parties fall narrowly short of the 5% threshold and win no electorate. Their percentage support is proportionately distributed among the surviving parties.The Helen Clark led Labour party in 2002 was, like National in 2014, \u201cin striking distance of getting more than half the seats in parliament\u201d, says Nigel Roberts, a political scientist and adjunct professor at Victoria University of Wellington, but their hopes of ruling alone were \u201ccompletely skedaddled\u201d after the release of a damaging book by Nicky Hagar \u2013 who also wrote Dirty Politics, which derailed the first part of the current campaign. \u201cJudging by the recent polls, I\u2019ll be surprised if National were to get an absolute majority,\u201d says Roberts.Likelihood: lowNational could enter a formal coalition with one of two parties: New Zealand First or the Conservatives, though the latter is polling slightly below the magic 5%. This would see members of the smaller party take full roles in cabinet and pledge collective responsibility. Other smaller parties may still negotiate support arrangements.Likelihood: decent chance Labour are struggling, but not yet out of the race. They have long indicated a preference for a full coalition with the Green party, but they would almost certainly need New Zealand First\u2019s support \u2013 whether in a full-blown coalition or as a support party outside cabinet \u2013 to make it work. On top of that they\u2019d very likely need support in some form from the Kim Dotcom backed Internet Mana party and perhaps even the Maori party.Likelihood: You never know A familiar sight in post-MMP politics is parties agreeing to \u201cconfidence and supply\u201d arrangements, in which support parties guarantee to back the government in confidence votes and on the budget in exchange for policy concessions and ministerial portfolios outside cabinet. This is the model John Key\u2019s National party has adopted in both its past two terms, with support coming from the Maori party\u2019s handful of MPs and one-man bands ACT and United Future, and the option they hope to repeat after Saturday.Likelihood: reasonableBoth main parties might fail to assemble the support to achieve a parliamentary majority, and New Zealand First\u2019s mercurial leader, Winston Peters, who pointedly refuses to discuss post-election deals during campaigning, may announce that his party will give no guarantees to anyone and instead sit on the crossbenches. In that scenario, National, with or without support parties, could chance its arm and go to the governor general asking for parliament to be recalled so that it can test its viability. The approach \u2013 a version of which is being played out in Sweden at the moment \u2013 brings serious risks of instability, however, and international experience suggests that, should another election be required in short time, smaller parties are likely to be punished.\u201cThe danger is that at some point in the future, not having an absolute majority could lead to the defeat of a government,\u201d says Roberts. \u201cOn the other hand, no government in New Zealand has been defeated on a vote of confidence since 1928. And not once under MMP has any vote of confidence realistically come anywhere near succeeding.\u201dLikelihood: lowNew Zealand hasn\u2019t seen a grand coalition in almost 100 years, and it\u2019s not about to happen now, with National and Labour having ruled out the idea, despite some observing that in a number of areas their policies are more compatible with each other\u2019s than with their more likely coalition partners.Likelihood: Not in peacetime", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "John Key"], "title": "New Zealand election: what could happen?"},{"date": "2014-09-18T15:57:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "An election campaign labelled New Zealand's strangest, dirtiest and most dramatic, reaches a climax as voters go to the polls, though it may take days or weeks before a government is agreed.In the last month conventional policy arguments have been squeezed to the margins, with the ruling National party forced to face down revelations of links to a notorious attack-blogger that hogged headlines for a fortnight.That was soon followed by allegations of deception over state surveillance from the NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden and the journalist Glenn Greenwald.In response, the National party leader and prime minister, John Key, maintained a consistent strategy of dismissing the allegations and attacking the messenger's motives and credibility.Key has characterised both Nicky Hager, author of the book Dirty Politics, which draws on emails hacked from the venomous rightwing blogger Cameron Slater, and Greenwald, who arrived in New Zealand last week to expose contradictions in official positions on surveillance, as \"conspiracy theorists\".In the short-term at least it has worked. National party support has dropped a point or two in most polls, but so has that of the main opposition Labour party. A Colmar Brunton poll for One News released on Thursday evening put National on 45%, Labour on 25% and their likely coalition partner, the Green party, on 12%.The political scientist Nigel Roberts, of Victoria University of Wellington, who has covered every New Zealand election since 1972, said the 2014 campaign was the strangest he had witnessed.The Dirty Politics allegations, which were protracted by the hacker's dripfeed of material online and which led to a senior cabinet minister, Judith Collins, resigning, had the impact of an \"ambush\" on both major parties, Roberts said. \"For the first couple of weeks in the campaign, National was seriously off-track and that was also denying Labour some breathing space. People weren't going to Labour to comment on policy questions, they were going to talk about Collins and dirty politics \u2026 so from that point of view the election was hijacked.\"The parties that apparentlyprospered from the scandal were the smaller, non-establishment groups, such as New Zealand First and the Conservatives, one of which National may depend upon to rule after the vote. The Conservative party has been polling just below the 5% threshold required to enter parliament without winning an electorate seat, while NZ First looks certain to return, with the One News poll putting it on 8%.Led by Winston Peters, an alternately captivating and cantankerous evacuee from the National party, NZ First was ruled out as a potential partner by Key in the 2011 campaign, but this time round it has been courted by both sides.Peters is familiar as a potential kingmaker in New Zealand elections since the switch from first-past-the-post to mixed-member proportional representation in 1996. Post-election negotiations have given him secure government roles including treasurer and foreign minister.A paragon of common sense to supporters and a xenophobic sophist to critics, Peters, who is part Maori, is a \"preternaturally charming old-stager\", according to Jane Clifton, a political columnist for the weekly NZ Listener magazine.She said: \"He's got natural charm and charisma, very quick witted, and he's pretty small-c conservative in his political leanings, with a default setting towards protectionism. He's what the National party used to be, in about the 60s and 70s.\"Peters would be more comfortable on a personal level forming a coalition with Labour, but any such deal is complicated by his distaste at the prospect of playing third fiddle to the Greens. He could even eschew both sides and sit his party on the crossbenches.\"I think his joy would be almost greater if, in doing a deal with National, he could make them jump through a whole lot of hoops, and give up a whole lot of stuff. That would humble it, because he's felt disrespected by John Key for a number of years,\" said Clifton.One party that has failed to enjoy a poll spike from the scandals is Internet-Mana. A strategic alliance between the Internet party founded by Kim Dotcom, the New Zealand based internet mogul the US wants to extradite on criminal copyright charges, and the leftwing indigenous-rights-focused Mana Movement, it is currently polling at 2% or less.Internet-Mana may still make it to parliament, however, if Mana's leader, Hone Harawira, wins his seat, which would exempt the party from the threshold rule.Kim Dotcom \u2013 who hosted the Moment of Truth event at Auckland town hall this week featuring Greenwald and, via internet links, Snowden and Julian Assange \u2013 is unable to stand for parliament as a non-citizen, so instead is \"party visionary\". The National party's re-election campaign revolves around two slogans, \"Working for New Zealand\" and \"Team Key\", encapsulating their twin selling points - stable, steady-as-she-goes economic growth and a popular leader.Key, a trader turned politician who combines a CEO-style leadership approach with a down-to-earth, sometimes goofy personal image, continues to rank by far the highest in preferred prime minister polling. The One News survey put him ahead in preferred prime minister polling at 43%, with his nearest rival, the Labour leader, David Cunliffe, on 12%.National has demonstrated a \"gravity-defying nature\" in the face of controversy for some time, said Clifton, and it is not just because of Labour in-fighting. \"It just doesn't seem to matter what the scandal is, National's support base will quarantine it \u2026 but it's not all about a near-majority of people feeling positive about John Key. I think there's a small-c conservatism that follows something like the global financial crisis, which the commentariat might have underestimated.\"Polls close at 7pm local time (0800 BST) on Saturday, and early results are likely within a couple of hours.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand prepares to vote after 'strangest, dirtiest' election campaign"},{"date": "2014-09-19T05:19:33Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "There are 70 electorates in New Zealand, including seven Maori electorates that span the country (Maori voters can choose to be on the Maori or general roll). Voters have two ticks: one for an electorate MP, the other for a party. The party vote determines the composition of parliament, with the remaining places in the 120-seat parliament filled from party lists to achieve that.Parties only qualify for list seats if they satisfy at least one of two criteria: reaching 5% of the overall party vote, or winning an electorate seat.New Zealand\u2019s MMP (mixed member proportional) electoral system, introduced in 1996 to replace the first-past-the-post method, usually results in days or weeks of negotiation (aka horse-trading) following the election. A range of possible combinations and configurations are possible. It is rare in MMP-style systems for a single party to receive an absolute majority, and has not happened in New Zealand in the 18 years since the electoral overhaul took place. The National party has frequently polled over 50% in the last few years but goes into the election averaging about 46.5%. A result shy of 50% may nevertheless be enough to win a majority, especially if one or more parties fall narrowly short of the 5% threshold and win no electorate. Their percentage support is proportionately distributed among the surviving parties.The Helen Clark led Labour party in 2002 was, like National in 2014, \u201cin striking distance of getting more than half the seats in parliament\u201d, says Nigel Roberts, a political scientist and adjunct professor at Victoria University of Wellington, but their hopes of ruling alone were \u201ccompletely skedaddled\u201d after the release of a damaging book by Nicky Hagar \u2013 who also wrote Dirty Politics, which derailed the first part of the current campaign. \u201cJudging by the recent polls, I\u2019ll be surprised if National were to get an absolute majority,\u201d says Roberts.Likelihood: lowNational could enter a formal coalition with one of two parties: New Zealand First or the Conservatives, though the latter is polling slightly below the magic 5%. This would see members of the smaller party take full roles in cabinet and pledge collective responsibility. Other smaller parties may still negotiate support arrangements.Likelihood: decent chance Labour are struggling, but not yet out of the race. They have long indicated a preference for a full coalition with the Green party, but they would almost certainly need New Zealand First\u2019s support \u2013 whether in a full-blown coalition or as a support party outside cabinet \u2013 to make it work. On top of that they\u2019d very likely need support in some form from the Kim Dotcom backed Internet Mana party and perhaps even the Maori party.Likelihood: You never know A familiar sight in post-MMP politics is parties agreeing to \u201cconfidence and supply\u201d arrangements, in which support parties guarantee to back the government in confidence votes and on the budget in exchange for policy concessions and ministerial portfolios outside cabinet. This is the model John Key\u2019s National party has adopted in both its past two terms, with support coming from the Maori party\u2019s handful of MPs and one-man bands ACT and United Future, and the option they hope to repeat after Saturday.Likelihood: reasonableBoth main parties might fail to assemble the support to achieve a parliamentary majority, and New Zealand First\u2019s mercurial leader, Winston Peters, who pointedly refuses to discuss post-election deals during campaigning, may announce that his party will give no guarantees to anyone and instead sit on the crossbenches. In that scenario, National, with or without support parties, could chance its arm and go to the governor general asking for parliament to be recalled so that it can test its viability. The approach \u2013 a version of which is being played out in Sweden at the moment \u2013 brings serious risks of instability, however, and international experience suggests that, should another election be required in short time, smaller parties are likely to be punished.\u201cThe danger is that at some point in the future, not having an absolute majority could lead to the defeat of a government,\u201d says Roberts. \u201cOn the other hand, no government in New Zealand has been defeated on a vote of confidence since 1928. And not once under MMP has any vote of confidence realistically come anywhere near succeeding.\u201dLikelihood: lowNew Zealand hasn\u2019t seen a grand coalition in almost 100 years, and it\u2019s not about to happen now, with National and Labour having ruled out the idea, despite some observing that in a number of areas their policies are more compatible with each other\u2019s than with their more likely coalition partners.Likelihood: Not in peacetime", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "John Key"], "title": "New Zealand election: what could happen?"},{"date": "2014-09-18T15:57:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "An election campaign labelled New Zealand's strangest, dirtiest and most dramatic, reaches a climax as voters go to the polls, though it may take days or weeks before a government is agreed.In the last month conventional policy arguments have been squeezed to the margins, with the ruling National party forced to face down revelations of links to a notorious attack-blogger that hogged headlines for a fortnight.That was soon followed by allegations of deception over state surveillance from the NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden and the journalist Glenn Greenwald.In response, the National party leader and prime minister, John Key, maintained a consistent strategy of dismissing the allegations and attacking the messenger's motives and credibility.Key has characterised both Nicky Hager, author of the book Dirty Politics, which draws on emails hacked from the venomous rightwing blogger Cameron Slater, and Greenwald, who arrived in New Zealand last week to expose contradictions in official positions on surveillance, as \"conspiracy theorists\".In the short-term at least it has worked. National party support has dropped a point or two in most polls, but so has that of the main opposition Labour party. A Colmar Brunton poll for One News released on Thursday evening put National on 45%, Labour on 25% and their likely coalition partner, the Green party, on 12%.The political scientist Nigel Roberts, of Victoria University of Wellington, who has covered every New Zealand election since 1972, said the 2014 campaign was the strangest he had witnessed.The Dirty Politics allegations, which were protracted by the hacker's dripfeed of material online and which led to a senior cabinet minister, Judith Collins, resigning, had the impact of an \"ambush\" on both major parties, Roberts said. \"For the first couple of weeks in the campaign, National was seriously off-track and that was also denying Labour some breathing space. People weren't going to Labour to comment on policy questions, they were going to talk about Collins and dirty politics \u2026 so from that point of view the election was hijacked.\"The parties that apparentlyprospered from the scandal were the smaller, non-establishment groups, such as New Zealand First and the Conservatives, one of which National may depend upon to rule after the vote. The Conservative party has been polling just below the 5% threshold required to enter parliament without winning an electorate seat, while NZ First looks certain to return, with the One News poll putting it on 8%.Led by Winston Peters, an alternately captivating and cantankerous evacuee from the National party, NZ First was ruled out as a potential partner by Key in the 2011 campaign, but this time round it has been courted by both sides.Peters is familiar as a potential kingmaker in New Zealand elections since the switch from first-past-the-post to mixed-member proportional representation in 1996. Post-election negotiations have given him secure government roles including treasurer and foreign minister.A paragon of common sense to supporters and a xenophobic sophist to critics, Peters, who is part Maori, is a \"preternaturally charming old-stager\", according to Jane Clifton, a political columnist for the weekly NZ Listener magazine.She said: \"He's got natural charm and charisma, very quick witted, and he's pretty small-c conservative in his political leanings, with a default setting towards protectionism. He's what the National party used to be, in about the 60s and 70s.\"Peters would be more comfortable on a personal level forming a coalition with Labour, but any such deal is complicated by his distaste at the prospect of playing third fiddle to the Greens. He could even eschew both sides and sit his party on the crossbenches.\"I think his joy would be almost greater if, in doing a deal with National, he could make them jump through a whole lot of hoops, and give up a whole lot of stuff. That would humble it, because he's felt disrespected by John Key for a number of years,\" said Clifton.One party that has failed to enjoy a poll spike from the scandals is Internet-Mana. A strategic alliance between the Internet party founded by Kim Dotcom, the New Zealand based internet mogul the US wants to extradite on criminal copyright charges, and the leftwing indigenous-rights-focused Mana Movement, it is currently polling at 2% or less.Internet-Mana may still make it to parliament, however, if Mana's leader, Hone Harawira, wins his seat, which would exempt the party from the threshold rule.Kim Dotcom \u2013 who hosted the Moment of Truth event at Auckland town hall this week featuring Greenwald and, via internet links, Snowden and Julian Assange \u2013 is unable to stand for parliament as a non-citizen, so instead is \"party visionary\". The National party's re-election campaign revolves around two slogans, \"Working for New Zealand\" and \"Team Key\", encapsulating their twin selling points - stable, steady-as-she-goes economic growth and a popular leader.Key, a trader turned politician who combines a CEO-style leadership approach with a down-to-earth, sometimes goofy personal image, continues to rank by far the highest in preferred prime minister polling. The One News survey put him ahead in preferred prime minister polling at 43%, with his nearest rival, the Labour leader, David Cunliffe, on 12%.National has demonstrated a \"gravity-defying nature\" in the face of controversy for some time, said Clifton, and it is not just because of Labour in-fighting. \"It just doesn't seem to matter what the scandal is, National's support base will quarantine it \u2026 but it's not all about a near-majority of people feeling positive about John Key. I think there's a small-c conservatism that follows something like the global financial crisis, which the commentariat might have underestimated.\"Polls close at 7pm local time (0800 BST) on Saturday, and early results are likely within a couple of hours.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand prepares to vote after 'strangest, dirtiest' election campaign"},{"date": "2014-09-20T10:38:31Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The John Key-led National party will return to power in New Zealand for a third consecutive term, having survived waves of scandal during a volatile and antagonistic election campaign to secure an overwhelming victory.National is on the brink of securing the first single-party parliamentary majority since New Zealand moved to its Mixed Member Proportional electoral system in 1996.The result is a disaster for the main opposition Labour party, while the Mana-Internet party experiment, backed by Kim Dotcom, has spectacularly backfired, failing to win so much as a single seat.Arriving at the party\u2019s headquarters on the Auckland waterfront to chants of \u201cthree more years\u201d, Key said the result signalled a \u201cvictory for the people, the policies, the unity and the vision that National will bring to government for the next three years\u201d.Describing himself as \u201chumble and at the same time energised\u201d, Key pledged to \u201ccontinue to provide the strong and stable government that is working for New Zealand\u201d.\u201cWe are the finest little nation on the planet, I truly believe that. Our future as a country is bright, our opportunities are unlimited.\u201dThe provisional final count saw National win 48% of the party vote, which determines the composition of parliament under New Zealand\u2019s proportional system, enough to gain them 61 seats in a 121 seat chamber. The Labour party trailed on 25%, with the Green party on 10% and the New Zealand First Party, which had been picked as a likely kingmaker, on 9%.The rightwing family-values Conservative party, funded by the millions of its leader Colin Craig, finished the night on 4%, failing to reach the crucial 5% threshold that is required to enter parliament by any party without an electorate seat.Dotcom, currently being sought for extradition from New Zealand by the US to face copyright and money laundering charges, brokered and bankrolled to the tune of an estimated NZ $4 million the strategic alliance of the Internet Party with leftwing Maori-focused Mana party with the express purpose of removing John Key\u2019s government.The party\u2019s success hinged on the Mana leader, Hone Harawira, winning his seat, Te Tai Tokerau, to bring other MPs in with him. He was defeated in the Maori electorate by Labour\u2019s Kelvin Davis, however, with National and New Zealand First both having urged their supporters to vote to support Davis and scupper the Dotcom project.The German entrepreneur blamed himself for the result, acknowledging \u201cthe brand Dotcom was poison\u201d.Even if the final numbers, following special votes, allow National to form a single-party majority government, Key will seek support from the Maori Party, ACT and United Future, which between them won four seats, the same group of parties with which he was previously allied.Key said he intended to \u201ctalk to other leaders of political parties, with a view to putting together a broader majority and to ensure a durable and strong government\u201d.Labour had hoped it might build a government encompassing Greens and NZ First, but the party, beleaguered by infighting in the lead-up to the campaign, are left facing a period of introspection, with a number of high-profile MPs losing their seats.Speaking to the party faithful in west Auckland, Cunliffe said he intended to continue as leader, while acknowledging he would go through the selection process required under party rules. The the \u201crebuild of the party and the campaign for the next election\u201d would begin immediately, he said.He lamented \u201ca campaign beset by dirty politics and sideshows, involving potential abuses of power at the highest level that will still take months and months to unravel\u201d, but which had \u201cdistracted from the issues that are more core to the future of our country\u201d.Cunliffe added that the results on the night \u201cclearly stated that wealthy individuals cannot buy politics, be they Kim Dotcom or Colin Craig\u201d.Conventional policy arguments have been squeezed to the edges of the campaign, with two major controversies dominating headlines and putting Key on the defensive. The release of a book by Nicky Hager, Dirty Politics, described links between senior figures in the National Party and the rightwing attack-blog Whale Oil. Further fuel was added to the fire with the repeated release of hacked online correspondence, upon which the book had drawn, by a mysterious character called \u201cRawshark\u201d. The revelations led ultimately to the resignation of the justice minister.Just as the campaign was beginning to regain some normalcy, another intervention stole the spotlight. Hosted by Dotcom, journalist Glenn Greenwald\u2019s arrived in New Zealand promising to disprove Key\u2019s denial that mass surveillance was undertaken by local intelligence agencies. Key denied the claim, dismissing Greenwald a conspiracy theorist, a \u201chenchman\u201d for Dotcom, and even a \u201closer\u201d.The controversy culminated in an event billed by Dotcom as \u201cthe Moment of Truth\u201d at the Auckland Town Hall on Monday night, with Greenwald joined on the big screen by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange. The revelations from Snowden and Greenwald were muddied, however, by Dotcom\u2019s failure to provide the evidence he had promised to unveil showing that John Key had colluded with Hollywood lobbyists in planning for his extradition.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "John Key"], "title": "New Zealand election: John Key leads National to overwhelming victory"},{"date": "2014-09-19T05:19:33Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "There are 70 electorates in New Zealand, including seven Maori electorates that span the country (Maori voters can choose to be on the Maori or general roll). Voters have two ticks: one for an electorate MP, the other for a party. The party vote determines the composition of parliament, with the remaining places in the 120-seat parliament filled from party lists to achieve that.Parties only qualify for list seats if they satisfy at least one of two criteria: reaching 5% of the overall party vote, or winning an electorate seat.New Zealand\u2019s MMP (mixed member proportional) electoral system, introduced in 1996 to replace the first-past-the-post method, usually results in days or weeks of negotiation (aka horse-trading) following the election. A range of possible combinations and configurations are possible. It is rare in MMP-style systems for a single party to receive an absolute majority, and has not happened in New Zealand in the 18 years since the electoral overhaul took place. The National party has frequently polled over 50% in the last few years but goes into the election averaging about 46.5%. A result shy of 50% may nevertheless be enough to win a majority, especially if one or more parties fall narrowly short of the 5% threshold and win no electorate. Their percentage support is proportionately distributed among the surviving parties.The Helen Clark led Labour party in 2002 was, like National in 2014, \u201cin striking distance of getting more than half the seats in parliament\u201d, says Nigel Roberts, a political scientist and adjunct professor at Victoria University of Wellington, but their hopes of ruling alone were \u201ccompletely skedaddled\u201d after the release of a damaging book by Nicky Hagar \u2013 who also wrote Dirty Politics, which derailed the first part of the current campaign. \u201cJudging by the recent polls, I\u2019ll be surprised if National were to get an absolute majority,\u201d says Roberts.Likelihood: lowNational could enter a formal coalition with one of two parties: New Zealand First or the Conservatives, though the latter is polling slightly below the magic 5%. This would see members of the smaller party take full roles in cabinet and pledge collective responsibility. Other smaller parties may still negotiate support arrangements.Likelihood: decent chance Labour are struggling, but not yet out of the race. They have long indicated a preference for a full coalition with the Green party, but they would almost certainly need New Zealand First\u2019s support \u2013 whether in a full-blown coalition or as a support party outside cabinet \u2013 to make it work. On top of that they\u2019d very likely need support in some form from the Kim Dotcom backed Internet Mana party and perhaps even the Maori party.Likelihood: You never know A familiar sight in post-MMP politics is parties agreeing to \u201cconfidence and supply\u201d arrangements, in which support parties guarantee to back the government in confidence votes and on the budget in exchange for policy concessions and ministerial portfolios outside cabinet. This is the model John Key\u2019s National party has adopted in both its past two terms, with support coming from the Maori party\u2019s handful of MPs and one-man bands ACT and United Future, and the option they hope to repeat after Saturday.Likelihood: reasonableBoth main parties might fail to assemble the support to achieve a parliamentary majority, and New Zealand First\u2019s mercurial leader, Winston Peters, who pointedly refuses to discuss post-election deals during campaigning, may announce that his party will give no guarantees to anyone and instead sit on the crossbenches. In that scenario, National, with or without support parties, could chance its arm and go to the governor general asking for parliament to be recalled so that it can test its viability. The approach \u2013 a version of which is being played out in Sweden at the moment \u2013 brings serious risks of instability, however, and international experience suggests that, should another election be required in short time, smaller parties are likely to be punished.\u201cThe danger is that at some point in the future, not having an absolute majority could lead to the defeat of a government,\u201d says Roberts. \u201cOn the other hand, no government in New Zealand has been defeated on a vote of confidence since 1928. And not once under MMP has any vote of confidence realistically come anywhere near succeeding.\u201dLikelihood: lowNew Zealand hasn\u2019t seen a grand coalition in almost 100 years, and it\u2019s not about to happen now, with National and Labour having ruled out the idea, despite some observing that in a number of areas their policies are more compatible with each other\u2019s than with their more likely coalition partners.Likelihood: Not in peacetime", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "John Key"], "title": "New Zealand election: what could happen?"},{"date": "2014-09-18T15:57:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "An election campaign labelled New Zealand's strangest, dirtiest and most dramatic, reaches a climax as voters go to the polls, though it may take days or weeks before a government is agreed.In the last month conventional policy arguments have been squeezed to the margins, with the ruling National party forced to face down revelations of links to a notorious attack-blogger that hogged headlines for a fortnight.That was soon followed by allegations of deception over state surveillance from the NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden and the journalist Glenn Greenwald.In response, the National party leader and prime minister, John Key, maintained a consistent strategy of dismissing the allegations and attacking the messenger's motives and credibility.Key has characterised both Nicky Hager, author of the book Dirty Politics, which draws on emails hacked from the venomous rightwing blogger Cameron Slater, and Greenwald, who arrived in New Zealand last week to expose contradictions in official positions on surveillance, as \"conspiracy theorists\".In the short-term at least it has worked. National party support has dropped a point or two in most polls, but so has that of the main opposition Labour party. A Colmar Brunton poll for One News released on Thursday evening put National on 45%, Labour on 25% and their likely coalition partner, the Green party, on 12%.The political scientist Nigel Roberts, of Victoria University of Wellington, who has covered every New Zealand election since 1972, said the 2014 campaign was the strangest he had witnessed.The Dirty Politics allegations, which were protracted by the hacker's dripfeed of material online and which led to a senior cabinet minister, Judith Collins, resigning, had the impact of an \"ambush\" on both major parties, Roberts said. \"For the first couple of weeks in the campaign, National was seriously off-track and that was also denying Labour some breathing space. People weren't going to Labour to comment on policy questions, they were going to talk about Collins and dirty politics \u2026 so from that point of view the election was hijacked.\"The parties that apparentlyprospered from the scandal were the smaller, non-establishment groups, such as New Zealand First and the Conservatives, one of which National may depend upon to rule after the vote. The Conservative party has been polling just below the 5% threshold required to enter parliament without winning an electorate seat, while NZ First looks certain to return, with the One News poll putting it on 8%.Led by Winston Peters, an alternately captivating and cantankerous evacuee from the National party, NZ First was ruled out as a potential partner by Key in the 2011 campaign, but this time round it has been courted by both sides.Peters is familiar as a potential kingmaker in New Zealand elections since the switch from first-past-the-post to mixed-member proportional representation in 1996. Post-election negotiations have given him secure government roles including treasurer and foreign minister.A paragon of common sense to supporters and a xenophobic sophist to critics, Peters, who is part Maori, is a \"preternaturally charming old-stager\", according to Jane Clifton, a political columnist for the weekly NZ Listener magazine.She said: \"He's got natural charm and charisma, very quick witted, and he's pretty small-c conservative in his political leanings, with a default setting towards protectionism. He's what the National party used to be, in about the 60s and 70s.\"Peters would be more comfortable on a personal level forming a coalition with Labour, but any such deal is complicated by his distaste at the prospect of playing third fiddle to the Greens. He could even eschew both sides and sit his party on the crossbenches.\"I think his joy would be almost greater if, in doing a deal with National, he could make them jump through a whole lot of hoops, and give up a whole lot of stuff. That would humble it, because he's felt disrespected by John Key for a number of years,\" said Clifton.One party that has failed to enjoy a poll spike from the scandals is Internet-Mana. A strategic alliance between the Internet party founded by Kim Dotcom, the New Zealand based internet mogul the US wants to extradite on criminal copyright charges, and the leftwing indigenous-rights-focused Mana Movement, it is currently polling at 2% or less.Internet-Mana may still make it to parliament, however, if Mana's leader, Hone Harawira, wins his seat, which would exempt the party from the threshold rule.Kim Dotcom \u2013 who hosted the Moment of Truth event at Auckland town hall this week featuring Greenwald and, via internet links, Snowden and Julian Assange \u2013 is unable to stand for parliament as a non-citizen, so instead is \"party visionary\". The National party's re-election campaign revolves around two slogans, \"Working for New Zealand\" and \"Team Key\", encapsulating their twin selling points - stable, steady-as-she-goes economic growth and a popular leader.Key, a trader turned politician who combines a CEO-style leadership approach with a down-to-earth, sometimes goofy personal image, continues to rank by far the highest in preferred prime minister polling. The One News survey put him ahead in preferred prime minister polling at 43%, with his nearest rival, the Labour leader, David Cunliffe, on 12%.National has demonstrated a \"gravity-defying nature\" in the face of controversy for some time, said Clifton, and it is not just because of Labour in-fighting. \"It just doesn't seem to matter what the scandal is, National's support base will quarantine it \u2026 but it's not all about a near-majority of people feeling positive about John Key. I think there's a small-c conservatism that follows something like the global financial crisis, which the commentariat might have underestimated.\"Polls close at 7pm local time (0800 BST) on Saturday, and early results are likely within a couple of hours.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand prepares to vote after 'strangest, dirtiest' election campaign"},{"date": "2014-09-20T10:38:31Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The John Key-led National party will return to power in New Zealand for a third consecutive term, having survived waves of scandal during a volatile and antagonistic election campaign to secure an overwhelming victory.National is on the brink of securing the first single-party parliamentary majority since New Zealand moved to its Mixed Member Proportional electoral system in 1996.The result is a disaster for the main opposition Labour party, while the Mana-Internet party experiment, backed by Kim Dotcom, has spectacularly backfired, failing to win so much as a single seat.Arriving at the party\u2019s headquarters on the Auckland waterfront to chants of \u201cthree more years\u201d, Key said the result signalled a \u201cvictory for the people, the policies, the unity and the vision that National will bring to government for the next three years\u201d.Describing himself as \u201chumble and at the same time energised\u201d, Key pledged to \u201ccontinue to provide the strong and stable government that is working for New Zealand\u201d.\u201cWe are the finest little nation on the planet, I truly believe that. Our future as a country is bright, our opportunities are unlimited.\u201dThe provisional final count saw National win 48% of the party vote, which determines the composition of parliament under New Zealand\u2019s proportional system, enough to gain them 61 seats in a 121 seat chamber. The Labour party trailed on 25%, with the Green party on 10% and the New Zealand First Party, which had been picked as a likely kingmaker, on 9%.The rightwing family-values Conservative party, funded by the millions of its leader Colin Craig, finished the night on 4%, failing to reach the crucial 5% threshold that is required to enter parliament by any party without an electorate seat.Dotcom, currently being sought for extradition from New Zealand by the US to face copyright and money laundering charges, brokered and bankrolled to the tune of an estimated NZ $4 million the strategic alliance of the Internet Party with leftwing Maori-focused Mana party with the express purpose of removing John Key\u2019s government.The party\u2019s success hinged on the Mana leader, Hone Harawira, winning his seat, Te Tai Tokerau, to bring other MPs in with him. He was defeated in the Maori electorate by Labour\u2019s Kelvin Davis, however, with National and New Zealand First both having urged their supporters to vote to support Davis and scupper the Dotcom project.The German entrepreneur blamed himself for the result, acknowledging \u201cthe brand Dotcom was poison\u201d.Even if the final numbers, following special votes, allow National to form a single-party majority government, Key will seek support from the Maori Party, ACT and United Future, which between them won four seats, the same group of parties with which he was previously allied.Key said he intended to \u201ctalk to other leaders of political parties, with a view to putting together a broader majority and to ensure a durable and strong government\u201d.Labour had hoped it might build a government encompassing Greens and NZ First, but the party, beleaguered by infighting in the lead-up to the campaign, are left facing a period of introspection, with a number of high-profile MPs losing their seats.Speaking to the party faithful in west Auckland, Cunliffe said he intended to continue as leader, while acknowledging he would go through the selection process required under party rules. The the \u201crebuild of the party and the campaign for the next election\u201d would begin immediately, he said.He lamented \u201ca campaign beset by dirty politics and sideshows, involving potential abuses of power at the highest level that will still take months and months to unravel\u201d, but which had \u201cdistracted from the issues that are more core to the future of our country\u201d.Cunliffe added that the results on the night \u201cclearly stated that wealthy individuals cannot buy politics, be they Kim Dotcom or Colin Craig\u201d.Conventional policy arguments have been squeezed to the edges of the campaign, with two major controversies dominating headlines and putting Key on the defensive. The release of a book by Nicky Hager, Dirty Politics, described links between senior figures in the National Party and the rightwing attack-blog Whale Oil. Further fuel was added to the fire with the repeated release of hacked online correspondence, upon which the book had drawn, by a mysterious character called \u201cRawshark\u201d. The revelations led ultimately to the resignation of the justice minister.Just as the campaign was beginning to regain some normalcy, another intervention stole the spotlight. Hosted by Dotcom, journalist Glenn Greenwald\u2019s arrived in New Zealand promising to disprove Key\u2019s denial that mass surveillance was undertaken by local intelligence agencies. Key denied the claim, dismissing Greenwald a conspiracy theorist, a \u201chenchman\u201d for Dotcom, and even a \u201closer\u201d.The controversy culminated in an event billed by Dotcom as \u201cthe Moment of Truth\u201d at the Auckland Town Hall on Monday night, with Greenwald joined on the big screen by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange. The revelations from Snowden and Greenwald were muddied, however, by Dotcom\u2019s failure to provide the evidence he had promised to unveil showing that John Key had colluded with Hollywood lobbyists in planning for his extradition.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "John Key"], "title": "New Zealand election: John Key leads National to overwhelming victory"},{"date": "2014-08-04T18:15:09Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Vela Manusaute is getting misty-eyed as he talks of his pride in being in Scotland, the country of one of his heroes, \"the greatest of story-tellers\" Robert Louis Stevenson. \"My other hero is Gavin Hastings ... but I don't know that many Scottish people.\"Manusaute is at the Edinburgh Fringe with his musical The Factory \u2013 described as \"the Pacific Les Mis\"\u2013 which explores the difficult lives of Samoan immigrants to New Zealand.The Factory is just one part of New Zealand's biggest ever cultural charge to Edinburgh, with around 240 of the country's performers appearing across the entire festival.The country is a regular presence at Edinburgh in August, just not on this scale. Dick Grant, the chairman of Creative New Zealand, said the project to bring the performers, NZ Edinburgh 2014, had been two years in the planning. \"It is the largest group of leading New Zealand actors, dancers, musicians, visual artists, writers, Maori performing artists, producers and helpers that we have ever taken abroad \u2013 ever.\"The Factory comes to Edinburgh fresh from a tour in Australia and it came about, said Manusaute, because of his mother. \"She told me I should stop doing meaningless comedy work ... which offended me. It was like 'what do you mean, meaningless!'\"His company, Kila Kokonut Krew, had been going 10 years and it was time, he said, to do something big, something which felt important.First performed on a shoestring in a tiny theatre in south Auckland, one of New Zealand's roughest suburbs, The Factory tells the stories of Samoan immigrants to New Zealand who ended up in textile factories and on society's bottom rung.It is still a work in progress but the show's producers have high hopes of bringing it back to the UK on tour as well as taking it to the US.Producer William McKegg said while it was fun and entertaining, it was a show with purpose. \"It is a story about the difficulties and the disappointments and ultimately the redemption of being an immigrant to a new country.\"It was a universal story, he said. \"Either you're an immigrant yourself or you're a host to an immigrant.\"Other New Zealand performances include around 25 Haka performers, a production called Black Faggot which explores what it is like to be young, Samoan and gay and an immersive show titled The Generation of Z where audience members can expect to be chased by zombies.", "tags": ["Edinburgh festival 2014", "Stage", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Culture", "Theatre", "Music", "UK news"], "title": "New Zealand launches biggest ever cultural charge to Edinburgh festival"},{"date": "2014-09-19T05:19:33Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "There are 70 electorates in New Zealand, including seven Maori electorates that span the country (Maori voters can choose to be on the Maori or general roll). Voters have two ticks: one for an electorate MP, the other for a party. The party vote determines the composition of parliament, with the remaining places in the 120-seat parliament filled from party lists to achieve that.Parties only qualify for list seats if they satisfy at least one of two criteria: reaching 5% of the overall party vote, or winning an electorate seat.New Zealand\u2019s MMP (mixed member proportional) electoral system, introduced in 1996 to replace the first-past-the-post method, usually results in days or weeks of negotiation (aka horse-trading) following the election. A range of possible combinations and configurations are possible. It is rare in MMP-style systems for a single party to receive an absolute majority, and has not happened in New Zealand in the 18 years since the electoral overhaul took place. The National party has frequently polled over 50% in the last few years but goes into the election averaging about 46.5%. A result shy of 50% may nevertheless be enough to win a majority, especially if one or more parties fall narrowly short of the 5% threshold and win no electorate. Their percentage support is proportionately distributed among the surviving parties.The Helen Clark led Labour party in 2002 was, like National in 2014, \u201cin striking distance of getting more than half the seats in parliament\u201d, says Nigel Roberts, a political scientist and adjunct professor at Victoria University of Wellington, but their hopes of ruling alone were \u201ccompletely skedaddled\u201d after the release of a damaging book by Nicky Hagar \u2013 who also wrote Dirty Politics, which derailed the first part of the current campaign. \u201cJudging by the recent polls, I\u2019ll be surprised if National were to get an absolute majority,\u201d says Roberts.Likelihood: lowNational could enter a formal coalition with one of two parties: New Zealand First or the Conservatives, though the latter is polling slightly below the magic 5%. This would see members of the smaller party take full roles in cabinet and pledge collective responsibility. Other smaller parties may still negotiate support arrangements.Likelihood: decent chance Labour are struggling, but not yet out of the race. They have long indicated a preference for a full coalition with the Green party, but they would almost certainly need New Zealand First\u2019s support \u2013 whether in a full-blown coalition or as a support party outside cabinet \u2013 to make it work. On top of that they\u2019d very likely need support in some form from the Kim Dotcom backed Internet Mana party and perhaps even the Maori party.Likelihood: You never know A familiar sight in post-MMP politics is parties agreeing to \u201cconfidence and supply\u201d arrangements, in which support parties guarantee to back the government in confidence votes and on the budget in exchange for policy concessions and ministerial portfolios outside cabinet. This is the model John Key\u2019s National party has adopted in both its past two terms, with support coming from the Maori party\u2019s handful of MPs and one-man bands ACT and United Future, and the option they hope to repeat after Saturday.Likelihood: reasonableBoth main parties might fail to assemble the support to achieve a parliamentary majority, and New Zealand First\u2019s mercurial leader, Winston Peters, who pointedly refuses to discuss post-election deals during campaigning, may announce that his party will give no guarantees to anyone and instead sit on the crossbenches. In that scenario, National, with or without support parties, could chance its arm and go to the governor general asking for parliament to be recalled so that it can test its viability. The approach \u2013 a version of which is being played out in Sweden at the moment \u2013 brings serious risks of instability, however, and international experience suggests that, should another election be required in short time, smaller parties are likely to be punished.\u201cThe danger is that at some point in the future, not having an absolute majority could lead to the defeat of a government,\u201d says Roberts. \u201cOn the other hand, no government in New Zealand has been defeated on a vote of confidence since 1928. And not once under MMP has any vote of confidence realistically come anywhere near succeeding.\u201dLikelihood: lowNew Zealand hasn\u2019t seen a grand coalition in almost 100 years, and it\u2019s not about to happen now, with National and Labour having ruled out the idea, despite some observing that in a number of areas their policies are more compatible with each other\u2019s than with their more likely coalition partners.Likelihood: Not in peacetime", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "John Key"], "title": "New Zealand election: what could happen?"},{"date": "2014-09-18T15:57:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "An election campaign labelled New Zealand's strangest, dirtiest and most dramatic, reaches a climax as voters go to the polls, though it may take days or weeks before a government is agreed.In the last month conventional policy arguments have been squeezed to the margins, with the ruling National party forced to face down revelations of links to a notorious attack-blogger that hogged headlines for a fortnight.That was soon followed by allegations of deception over state surveillance from the NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden and the journalist Glenn Greenwald.In response, the National party leader and prime minister, John Key, maintained a consistent strategy of dismissing the allegations and attacking the messenger's motives and credibility.Key has characterised both Nicky Hager, author of the book Dirty Politics, which draws on emails hacked from the venomous rightwing blogger Cameron Slater, and Greenwald, who arrived in New Zealand last week to expose contradictions in official positions on surveillance, as \"conspiracy theorists\".In the short-term at least it has worked. National party support has dropped a point or two in most polls, but so has that of the main opposition Labour party. A Colmar Brunton poll for One News released on Thursday evening put National on 45%, Labour on 25% and their likely coalition partner, the Green party, on 12%.The political scientist Nigel Roberts, of Victoria University of Wellington, who has covered every New Zealand election since 1972, said the 2014 campaign was the strangest he had witnessed.The Dirty Politics allegations, which were protracted by the hacker's dripfeed of material online and which led to a senior cabinet minister, Judith Collins, resigning, had the impact of an \"ambush\" on both major parties, Roberts said. \"For the first couple of weeks in the campaign, National was seriously off-track and that was also denying Labour some breathing space. People weren't going to Labour to comment on policy questions, they were going to talk about Collins and dirty politics \u2026 so from that point of view the election was hijacked.\"The parties that apparentlyprospered from the scandal were the smaller, non-establishment groups, such as New Zealand First and the Conservatives, one of which National may depend upon to rule after the vote. The Conservative party has been polling just below the 5% threshold required to enter parliament without winning an electorate seat, while NZ First looks certain to return, with the One News poll putting it on 8%.Led by Winston Peters, an alternately captivating and cantankerous evacuee from the National party, NZ First was ruled out as a potential partner by Key in the 2011 campaign, but this time round it has been courted by both sides.Peters is familiar as a potential kingmaker in New Zealand elections since the switch from first-past-the-post to mixed-member proportional representation in 1996. Post-election negotiations have given him secure government roles including treasurer and foreign minister.A paragon of common sense to supporters and a xenophobic sophist to critics, Peters, who is part Maori, is a \"preternaturally charming old-stager\", according to Jane Clifton, a political columnist for the weekly NZ Listener magazine.She said: \"He's got natural charm and charisma, very quick witted, and he's pretty small-c conservative in his political leanings, with a default setting towards protectionism. He's what the National party used to be, in about the 60s and 70s.\"Peters would be more comfortable on a personal level forming a coalition with Labour, but any such deal is complicated by his distaste at the prospect of playing third fiddle to the Greens. He could even eschew both sides and sit his party on the crossbenches.\"I think his joy would be almost greater if, in doing a deal with National, he could make them jump through a whole lot of hoops, and give up a whole lot of stuff. That would humble it, because he's felt disrespected by John Key for a number of years,\" said Clifton.One party that has failed to enjoy a poll spike from the scandals is Internet-Mana. A strategic alliance between the Internet party founded by Kim Dotcom, the New Zealand based internet mogul the US wants to extradite on criminal copyright charges, and the leftwing indigenous-rights-focused Mana Movement, it is currently polling at 2% or less.Internet-Mana may still make it to parliament, however, if Mana's leader, Hone Harawira, wins his seat, which would exempt the party from the threshold rule.Kim Dotcom \u2013 who hosted the Moment of Truth event at Auckland town hall this week featuring Greenwald and, via internet links, Snowden and Julian Assange \u2013 is unable to stand for parliament as a non-citizen, so instead is \"party visionary\". The National party's re-election campaign revolves around two slogans, \"Working for New Zealand\" and \"Team Key\", encapsulating their twin selling points - stable, steady-as-she-goes economic growth and a popular leader.Key, a trader turned politician who combines a CEO-style leadership approach with a down-to-earth, sometimes goofy personal image, continues to rank by far the highest in preferred prime minister polling. The One News survey put him ahead in preferred prime minister polling at 43%, with his nearest rival, the Labour leader, David Cunliffe, on 12%.National has demonstrated a \"gravity-defying nature\" in the face of controversy for some time, said Clifton, and it is not just because of Labour in-fighting. \"It just doesn't seem to matter what the scandal is, National's support base will quarantine it \u2026 but it's not all about a near-majority of people feeling positive about John Key. I think there's a small-c conservatism that follows something like the global financial crisis, which the commentariat might have underestimated.\"Polls close at 7pm local time (0800 BST) on Saturday, and early results are likely within a couple of hours.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand prepares to vote after 'strangest, dirtiest' election campaign"},{"date": "2014-09-20T10:38:31Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The John Key-led National party will return to power in New Zealand for a third consecutive term, having survived waves of scandal during a volatile and antagonistic election campaign to secure an overwhelming victory.National is on the brink of securing the first single-party parliamentary majority since New Zealand moved to its Mixed Member Proportional electoral system in 1996.The result is a disaster for the main opposition Labour party, while the Mana-Internet party experiment, backed by Kim Dotcom, has spectacularly backfired, failing to win so much as a single seat.Arriving at the party\u2019s headquarters on the Auckland waterfront to chants of \u201cthree more years\u201d, Key said the result signalled a \u201cvictory for the people, the policies, the unity and the vision that National will bring to government for the next three years\u201d.Describing himself as \u201chumble and at the same time energised\u201d, Key pledged to \u201ccontinue to provide the strong and stable government that is working for New Zealand\u201d.\u201cWe are the finest little nation on the planet, I truly believe that. Our future as a country is bright, our opportunities are unlimited.\u201dThe provisional final count saw National win 48% of the party vote, which determines the composition of parliament under New Zealand\u2019s proportional system, enough to gain them 61 seats in a 121 seat chamber. The Labour party trailed on 25%, with the Green party on 10% and the New Zealand First Party, which had been picked as a likely kingmaker, on 9%.The rightwing family-values Conservative party, funded by the millions of its leader Colin Craig, finished the night on 4%, failing to reach the crucial 5% threshold that is required to enter parliament by any party without an electorate seat.Dotcom, currently being sought for extradition from New Zealand by the US to face copyright and money laundering charges, brokered and bankrolled to the tune of an estimated NZ $4 million the strategic alliance of the Internet Party with leftwing Maori-focused Mana party with the express purpose of removing John Key\u2019s government.The party\u2019s success hinged on the Mana leader, Hone Harawira, winning his seat, Te Tai Tokerau, to bring other MPs in with him. He was defeated in the Maori electorate by Labour\u2019s Kelvin Davis, however, with National and New Zealand First both having urged their supporters to vote to support Davis and scupper the Dotcom project.The German entrepreneur blamed himself for the result, acknowledging \u201cthe brand Dotcom was poison\u201d.Even if the final numbers, following special votes, allow National to form a single-party majority government, Key will seek support from the Maori Party, ACT and United Future, which between them won four seats, the same group of parties with which he was previously allied.Key said he intended to \u201ctalk to other leaders of political parties, with a view to putting together a broader majority and to ensure a durable and strong government\u201d.Labour had hoped it might build a government encompassing Greens and NZ First, but the party, beleaguered by infighting in the lead-up to the campaign, are left facing a period of introspection, with a number of high-profile MPs losing their seats.Speaking to the party faithful in west Auckland, Cunliffe said he intended to continue as leader, while acknowledging he would go through the selection process required under party rules. The the \u201crebuild of the party and the campaign for the next election\u201d would begin immediately, he said.He lamented \u201ca campaign beset by dirty politics and sideshows, involving potential abuses of power at the highest level that will still take months and months to unravel\u201d, but which had \u201cdistracted from the issues that are more core to the future of our country\u201d.Cunliffe added that the results on the night \u201cclearly stated that wealthy individuals cannot buy politics, be they Kim Dotcom or Colin Craig\u201d.Conventional policy arguments have been squeezed to the edges of the campaign, with two major controversies dominating headlines and putting Key on the defensive. The release of a book by Nicky Hager, Dirty Politics, described links between senior figures in the National Party and the rightwing attack-blog Whale Oil. Further fuel was added to the fire with the repeated release of hacked online correspondence, upon which the book had drawn, by a mysterious character called \u201cRawshark\u201d. The revelations led ultimately to the resignation of the justice minister.Just as the campaign was beginning to regain some normalcy, another intervention stole the spotlight. Hosted by Dotcom, journalist Glenn Greenwald\u2019s arrived in New Zealand promising to disprove Key\u2019s denial that mass surveillance was undertaken by local intelligence agencies. Key denied the claim, dismissing Greenwald a conspiracy theorist, a \u201chenchman\u201d for Dotcom, and even a \u201closer\u201d.The controversy culminated in an event billed by Dotcom as \u201cthe Moment of Truth\u201d at the Auckland Town Hall on Monday night, with Greenwald joined on the big screen by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange. The revelations from Snowden and Greenwald were muddied, however, by Dotcom\u2019s failure to provide the evidence he had promised to unveil showing that John Key had colluded with Hollywood lobbyists in planning for his extradition.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "John Key"], "title": "New Zealand election: John Key leads National to overwhelming victory"},{"date": "2014-08-04T18:15:09Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Vela Manusaute is getting misty-eyed as he talks of his pride in being in Scotland, the country of one of his heroes, \"the greatest of story-tellers\" Robert Louis Stevenson. \"My other hero is Gavin Hastings ... but I don't know that many Scottish people.\"Manusaute is at the Edinburgh Fringe with his musical The Factory \u2013 described as \"the Pacific Les Mis\"\u2013 which explores the difficult lives of Samoan immigrants to New Zealand.The Factory is just one part of New Zealand's biggest ever cultural charge to Edinburgh, with around 240 of the country's performers appearing across the entire festival.The country is a regular presence at Edinburgh in August, just not on this scale. Dick Grant, the chairman of Creative New Zealand, said the project to bring the performers, NZ Edinburgh 2014, had been two years in the planning. \"It is the largest group of leading New Zealand actors, dancers, musicians, visual artists, writers, Maori performing artists, producers and helpers that we have ever taken abroad \u2013 ever.\"The Factory comes to Edinburgh fresh from a tour in Australia and it came about, said Manusaute, because of his mother. \"She told me I should stop doing meaningless comedy work ... which offended me. It was like 'what do you mean, meaningless!'\"His company, Kila Kokonut Krew, had been going 10 years and it was time, he said, to do something big, something which felt important.First performed on a shoestring in a tiny theatre in south Auckland, one of New Zealand's roughest suburbs, The Factory tells the stories of Samoan immigrants to New Zealand who ended up in textile factories and on society's bottom rung.It is still a work in progress but the show's producers have high hopes of bringing it back to the UK on tour as well as taking it to the US.Producer William McKegg said while it was fun and entertaining, it was a show with purpose. \"It is a story about the difficulties and the disappointments and ultimately the redemption of being an immigrant to a new country.\"It was a universal story, he said. \"Either you're an immigrant yourself or you're a host to an immigrant.\"Other New Zealand performances include around 25 Haka performers, a production called Black Faggot which explores what it is like to be young, Samoan and gay and an immersive show titled The Generation of Z where audience members can expect to be chased by zombies.", "tags": ["Edinburgh festival 2014", "Stage", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Culture", "Theatre", "Music", "UK news"], "title": "New Zealand launches biggest ever cultural charge to Edinburgh festival"},{"date": "2014-07-22T00:43:48Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The Coromandel\u2019s charms are no secret \u2014 tens of thousands flock here from the North Island\u2019s urban centres and beyond every summer. Yet it remains just far enough from the madding crowds, as the intermittent weakness of phone signal and the car radio\u2019s scratchiness can attest.The peninsula is full of diddy towns, but you can add an extra zero to the populations of many during high summer. Between these townships, there\u2019s white, craggy coastline, green, velvety conifers and creamy, dreamy sands. A mix of pony-tailed painters, affluent Aucklanders and laid-back locals use it as their hideaway and, as a result, the pace of life needn't rise above a trot.Captain Cook landed on the beach that now takes his name in November 1769, to watch Mercury (hence the Bay\u2019s name) cross the sun. After some astronomical calculations Cook worked out the latitude and longitude, put New Zealand on a map and, while he was at it, planted a British flag on Kiwi soil and claimed the territory for King George III. Never one for resting, Cook then declared a nearby rock formation so crooked that it resembled the Bard\u2019s nose, and thus Shakespeare\u2019s Cliff was born.A wet and windy Wednesday in Whitianga puts paid to fishing and kayaking trips around the bay, but failed to prevent a choppy ride on a glass-bottomed boat to stunning Cathedral Cove. The following day (a less blustery one) I took in the same spots from land with Aotearoa Tours\u2019 excellent guide Darryl \u2013 who came equipped with that trademark Kiwi sense of humour and exceptional local knowledge. The view of Mercury Bay from Shakespeare\u2019s Cliff is stunning and Cathedral Cove is well worth a testy walk down through the Kauri Gum.No trip to the Coromandel peninsula would be complete without stopping off at Hot Water beach. Herein lies the problem, as the only attraction in the area that everyone does, it can be a scrum in summertime. Nevertheless, there\u2019s good reason for its popularity; hire a shovel, dig yourself a pool and wallow in the piping hot water with steam billowing from the sand around you. It\u2019s like a bath that never gets cold, until the incoming tide breaks its barriers. When bath time\u2019s over, and if you're feeling particularly clever, you can use the 67C sands to boil an egg or cook a fish.Just up the road in Whitianga is the wonderful Lost Spring. First things first, this is the only place I visited that insists you leave the sprogs behind. And rightly so, it\u2019s the ultimate hiding place. Get a massage \u2013 trust me, it\u2019ll unpick even the most knotted back \u2013 a seafood platter and a cocktail (best enjoyed in the hottest of the geo-thermal pools, the Crater Lake, which sits at around 40C and is sourced from a geothermal spring 667m under Whitianga). There are cooler pools for the less masochistic. An afternoon spent here should serve to soothe even the most troubled soul.If the novelty of Hot Water beach isn\u2019t your thing, there are plenty of stunning, more conventional sands about. A left-hand break gives Whangamata super surf, while nearby Opoutere is great for twitchers, and Onemana for those looking for total calm.An influx of hippies in the latter half of the last century saw the Coromandel develop into an arty haven. Almost every restaurant, cafe, B&B and winery acts as a gallery with locally produced work hanging, and often selling, on every wall. Otherwise, Topadahill Studio at Opoutere beach, Little Gallery of Fine Arts in Tairua and Bread & Butter Gallery in Whitianga are all worth a visit.For all its charms, Paeroa, the southernmost tip of the peninsula, can\u2019t seem to decide which claim to fame it wants; the whole town seems a homage \u2014 in giant bottle, banner and bunting form \u2014 to Lemon & Paeroa (L&P), that sickly sweet citrusy can of goodness, but it\u2019s also the self-styled antiques capital of New Zealand. The town\u2019s main street has plenty of knickknacky-style shops, shifting seasoned goods that may or may not actually be antique.Paeroa provides a convenient starting point for the Hauraki Rail Trail cycle. Take on the gentle 14km jaunt to Waikino or the ever-so-slightly more challenging trip to Waihi. A crucial pit-stop comes at Ohinemuri Winery, where I sampled the produce with Horst Hillerich, the German proprietor. And not just the fruity Wairau valley sauvignon blanc and excellent Omoka Springs pinot gris, but homegrown herbs and veggies, homemade chutneys and fudge. Back to the ride, which takes you through the 1.1km Karangahake's rail tunnel in almost pitch darkness. It\u2019s also worth checking out the staircase-style Owharoa Falls, Victoria Battery and the Windows Walk, which offers views of the spectacular Karangahake Gorge and Ohinemuri River through holes in the cliff face.Whether you cycle or drive there, Waihi is a town well worth a visit due to a whopping great hole in the ground \u2014 a mine named Martha \u2014 that folk have been taking gold out for well over a century. Unlike Paeroa, Waihi\u2019s identity is clear: it\u2019s a gold town but, with the mine set to close for the second time in the none-too-distant future, it\u2019s a gold town at a crossroads. Thus it\u2019s exciting to hear whispers of adventure sports in the shaft and to see the development of the Gold Discovery Centre, to commemorate and inform of the region\u2019s proud history. Until this opens in September 2014 and the mine closes, take the excellent goldmine tour to get up close and personal with the extraction process, see the majestic Cornish pumphouse and walk around Martha\u2019s 4km perimeter. This is New Zealand, so inevitably there\u2019s a full panorama of stunning scenery and, considering she\u2019s a mine, Martha ain\u2019t too ugly at all.From Waihi, there\u2019s a challenging, winding, hour-long drive up to Tairua, through rugged forest and along jagged coast. Like many of the area\u2019s drives it\u2019s not one for the weary, with hairpin bends and distracting scenery aplenty.I spent the night in two remarkably similar and equally brilliant B&Bs. The first, Sunlover Retreat in Tairua, is \u2013 despite the name \u2013 not a nudist colony and is run by the exceptionally friendly Donna Brooke and her rumbustious labradoodle, Jack. 24 hours later and I\u2019m at Within the Bays in Whitianga. There I\u2019m treated to an equally warm welcome and special stay by Hans and Annemarie Apers, a Dutch couple.Both stays share the same strengths. They are perched high up above their towns, and offer stunning views of the harbours and beyond, with orcas and dolphins sometimes in sight. Both were designed by their proprietors and fulfil the obligatory bed and breakfast requirements brilliantly. The personal touches are a treat; from the homemade goods \u2014 enjoy Hans\u2019 beer, Annemarie\u2019s croissants and Donna\u2019s bread, to the reams of local expertise on offer, the personalised, handwritten bedside note left at Sunlover and the leaving gift from Within the Bays. Every man and his dog has a boat in these parts, so fine seafood is two a penny. In Whitianga, I ate at Squids on Blacksmith Lane, where the fish pie was homely and wholesome and contained local, juicy, muscular mussels. Over the road is the highly recommended \u2014 if slightly fancier \u2014 Salt Bar & Restaurant, and it\u2019s worth popping into the Whitianga Hotel next door for a beer from the impressively-stocked bar or a fine-looking feed. Back in little Tairua, the options are less plentiful but Shells is a big, open-plan place, where succulent Waikato beef and an excellent seafood chowder are the highlights of a varied menu. There fellow patrons trade tales of their seafaring day, before an open fire.These days New Zealand is a country with craft beer dripping from every pore. But a trip to the steaming sand should not pass without a stop off at Hot Water Brewing Company, where the excellent brasserie (super \"fush'n'chups\") is open until late and the beers are so good it\u2019s unlikely the place will remain a secret for long. Watch head brewer Dave Kurth \u2014 formerly of Sharp\u2019s (home of delicious Doom Bar) in Cornwall, in the UK \u2014 at work and sample the citrusy Steamer, passionfruit flavours of Pale and chocolatey smooth Porter. Also, keep an eye out for Lala Coffee, roasted in Coromandel town and delicious all over the peninsula.", "tags": ["Short breaks", "Travel", "Hotels", "Restaurants", "Food and drink", "New Zealand holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Food & drink"], "title": "Three days in the Coromandel, New Zealand \u2013 travel guide"},{"date": "2014-09-19T05:19:33Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "There are 70 electorates in New Zealand, including seven Maori electorates that span the country (Maori voters can choose to be on the Maori or general roll). Voters have two ticks: one for an electorate MP, the other for a party. The party vote determines the composition of parliament, with the remaining places in the 120-seat parliament filled from party lists to achieve that.Parties only qualify for list seats if they satisfy at least one of two criteria: reaching 5% of the overall party vote, or winning an electorate seat.New Zealand\u2019s MMP (mixed member proportional) electoral system, introduced in 1996 to replace the first-past-the-post method, usually results in days or weeks of negotiation (aka horse-trading) following the election. A range of possible combinations and configurations are possible. It is rare in MMP-style systems for a single party to receive an absolute majority, and has not happened in New Zealand in the 18 years since the electoral overhaul took place. The National party has frequently polled over 50% in the last few years but goes into the election averaging about 46.5%. A result shy of 50% may nevertheless be enough to win a majority, especially if one or more parties fall narrowly short of the 5% threshold and win no electorate. Their percentage support is proportionately distributed among the surviving parties.The Helen Clark led Labour party in 2002 was, like National in 2014, \u201cin striking distance of getting more than half the seats in parliament\u201d, says Nigel Roberts, a political scientist and adjunct professor at Victoria University of Wellington, but their hopes of ruling alone were \u201ccompletely skedaddled\u201d after the release of a damaging book by Nicky Hagar \u2013 who also wrote Dirty Politics, which derailed the first part of the current campaign. \u201cJudging by the recent polls, I\u2019ll be surprised if National were to get an absolute majority,\u201d says Roberts.Likelihood: lowNational could enter a formal coalition with one of two parties: New Zealand First or the Conservatives, though the latter is polling slightly below the magic 5%. This would see members of the smaller party take full roles in cabinet and pledge collective responsibility. Other smaller parties may still negotiate support arrangements.Likelihood: decent chance Labour are struggling, but not yet out of the race. They have long indicated a preference for a full coalition with the Green party, but they would almost certainly need New Zealand First\u2019s support \u2013 whether in a full-blown coalition or as a support party outside cabinet \u2013 to make it work. On top of that they\u2019d very likely need support in some form from the Kim Dotcom backed Internet Mana party and perhaps even the Maori party.Likelihood: You never know A familiar sight in post-MMP politics is parties agreeing to \u201cconfidence and supply\u201d arrangements, in which support parties guarantee to back the government in confidence votes and on the budget in exchange for policy concessions and ministerial portfolios outside cabinet. This is the model John Key\u2019s National party has adopted in both its past two terms, with support coming from the Maori party\u2019s handful of MPs and one-man bands ACT and United Future, and the option they hope to repeat after Saturday.Likelihood: reasonableBoth main parties might fail to assemble the support to achieve a parliamentary majority, and New Zealand First\u2019s mercurial leader, Winston Peters, who pointedly refuses to discuss post-election deals during campaigning, may announce that his party will give no guarantees to anyone and instead sit on the crossbenches. In that scenario, National, with or without support parties, could chance its arm and go to the governor general asking for parliament to be recalled so that it can test its viability. The approach \u2013 a version of which is being played out in Sweden at the moment \u2013 brings serious risks of instability, however, and international experience suggests that, should another election be required in short time, smaller parties are likely to be punished.\u201cThe danger is that at some point in the future, not having an absolute majority could lead to the defeat of a government,\u201d says Roberts. \u201cOn the other hand, no government in New Zealand has been defeated on a vote of confidence since 1928. And not once under MMP has any vote of confidence realistically come anywhere near succeeding.\u201dLikelihood: lowNew Zealand hasn\u2019t seen a grand coalition in almost 100 years, and it\u2019s not about to happen now, with National and Labour having ruled out the idea, despite some observing that in a number of areas their policies are more compatible with each other\u2019s than with their more likely coalition partners.Likelihood: Not in peacetime", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "John Key"], "title": "New Zealand election: what could happen?"},{"date": "2014-09-18T15:57:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "An election campaign labelled New Zealand's strangest, dirtiest and most dramatic, reaches a climax as voters go to the polls, though it may take days or weeks before a government is agreed.In the last month conventional policy arguments have been squeezed to the margins, with the ruling National party forced to face down revelations of links to a notorious attack-blogger that hogged headlines for a fortnight.That was soon followed by allegations of deception over state surveillance from the NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden and the journalist Glenn Greenwald.In response, the National party leader and prime minister, John Key, maintained a consistent strategy of dismissing the allegations and attacking the messenger's motives and credibility.Key has characterised both Nicky Hager, author of the book Dirty Politics, which draws on emails hacked from the venomous rightwing blogger Cameron Slater, and Greenwald, who arrived in New Zealand last week to expose contradictions in official positions on surveillance, as \"conspiracy theorists\".In the short-term at least it has worked. National party support has dropped a point or two in most polls, but so has that of the main opposition Labour party. A Colmar Brunton poll for One News released on Thursday evening put National on 45%, Labour on 25% and their likely coalition partner, the Green party, on 12%.The political scientist Nigel Roberts, of Victoria University of Wellington, who has covered every New Zealand election since 1972, said the 2014 campaign was the strangest he had witnessed.The Dirty Politics allegations, which were protracted by the hacker's dripfeed of material online and which led to a senior cabinet minister, Judith Collins, resigning, had the impact of an \"ambush\" on both major parties, Roberts said. \"For the first couple of weeks in the campaign, National was seriously off-track and that was also denying Labour some breathing space. People weren't going to Labour to comment on policy questions, they were going to talk about Collins and dirty politics \u2026 so from that point of view the election was hijacked.\"The parties that apparentlyprospered from the scandal were the smaller, non-establishment groups, such as New Zealand First and the Conservatives, one of which National may depend upon to rule after the vote. The Conservative party has been polling just below the 5% threshold required to enter parliament without winning an electorate seat, while NZ First looks certain to return, with the One News poll putting it on 8%.Led by Winston Peters, an alternately captivating and cantankerous evacuee from the National party, NZ First was ruled out as a potential partner by Key in the 2011 campaign, but this time round it has been courted by both sides.Peters is familiar as a potential kingmaker in New Zealand elections since the switch from first-past-the-post to mixed-member proportional representation in 1996. Post-election negotiations have given him secure government roles including treasurer and foreign minister.A paragon of common sense to supporters and a xenophobic sophist to critics, Peters, who is part Maori, is a \"preternaturally charming old-stager\", according to Jane Clifton, a political columnist for the weekly NZ Listener magazine.She said: \"He's got natural charm and charisma, very quick witted, and he's pretty small-c conservative in his political leanings, with a default setting towards protectionism. He's what the National party used to be, in about the 60s and 70s.\"Peters would be more comfortable on a personal level forming a coalition with Labour, but any such deal is complicated by his distaste at the prospect of playing third fiddle to the Greens. He could even eschew both sides and sit his party on the crossbenches.\"I think his joy would be almost greater if, in doing a deal with National, he could make them jump through a whole lot of hoops, and give up a whole lot of stuff. That would humble it, because he's felt disrespected by John Key for a number of years,\" said Clifton.One party that has failed to enjoy a poll spike from the scandals is Internet-Mana. A strategic alliance between the Internet party founded by Kim Dotcom, the New Zealand based internet mogul the US wants to extradite on criminal copyright charges, and the leftwing indigenous-rights-focused Mana Movement, it is currently polling at 2% or less.Internet-Mana may still make it to parliament, however, if Mana's leader, Hone Harawira, wins his seat, which would exempt the party from the threshold rule.Kim Dotcom \u2013 who hosted the Moment of Truth event at Auckland town hall this week featuring Greenwald and, via internet links, Snowden and Julian Assange \u2013 is unable to stand for parliament as a non-citizen, so instead is \"party visionary\". The National party's re-election campaign revolves around two slogans, \"Working for New Zealand\" and \"Team Key\", encapsulating their twin selling points - stable, steady-as-she-goes economic growth and a popular leader.Key, a trader turned politician who combines a CEO-style leadership approach with a down-to-earth, sometimes goofy personal image, continues to rank by far the highest in preferred prime minister polling. The One News survey put him ahead in preferred prime minister polling at 43%, with his nearest rival, the Labour leader, David Cunliffe, on 12%.National has demonstrated a \"gravity-defying nature\" in the face of controversy for some time, said Clifton, and it is not just because of Labour in-fighting. \"It just doesn't seem to matter what the scandal is, National's support base will quarantine it \u2026 but it's not all about a near-majority of people feeling positive about John Key. I think there's a small-c conservatism that follows something like the global financial crisis, which the commentariat might have underestimated.\"Polls close at 7pm local time (0800 BST) on Saturday, and early results are likely within a couple of hours.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand prepares to vote after 'strangest, dirtiest' election campaign"},{"date": "2014-09-20T10:38:31Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The John Key-led National party will return to power in New Zealand for a third consecutive term, having survived waves of scandal during a volatile and antagonistic election campaign to secure an overwhelming victory.National is on the brink of securing the first single-party parliamentary majority since New Zealand moved to its Mixed Member Proportional electoral system in 1996.The result is a disaster for the main opposition Labour party, while the Mana-Internet party experiment, backed by Kim Dotcom, has spectacularly backfired, failing to win so much as a single seat.Arriving at the party\u2019s headquarters on the Auckland waterfront to chants of \u201cthree more years\u201d, Key said the result signalled a \u201cvictory for the people, the policies, the unity and the vision that National will bring to government for the next three years\u201d.Describing himself as \u201chumble and at the same time energised\u201d, Key pledged to \u201ccontinue to provide the strong and stable government that is working for New Zealand\u201d.\u201cWe are the finest little nation on the planet, I truly believe that. Our future as a country is bright, our opportunities are unlimited.\u201dThe provisional final count saw National win 48% of the party vote, which determines the composition of parliament under New Zealand\u2019s proportional system, enough to gain them 61 seats in a 121 seat chamber. The Labour party trailed on 25%, with the Green party on 10% and the New Zealand First Party, which had been picked as a likely kingmaker, on 9%.The rightwing family-values Conservative party, funded by the millions of its leader Colin Craig, finished the night on 4%, failing to reach the crucial 5% threshold that is required to enter parliament by any party without an electorate seat.Dotcom, currently being sought for extradition from New Zealand by the US to face copyright and money laundering charges, brokered and bankrolled to the tune of an estimated NZ $4 million the strategic alliance of the Internet Party with leftwing Maori-focused Mana party with the express purpose of removing John Key\u2019s government.The party\u2019s success hinged on the Mana leader, Hone Harawira, winning his seat, Te Tai Tokerau, to bring other MPs in with him. He was defeated in the Maori electorate by Labour\u2019s Kelvin Davis, however, with National and New Zealand First both having urged their supporters to vote to support Davis and scupper the Dotcom project.The German entrepreneur blamed himself for the result, acknowledging \u201cthe brand Dotcom was poison\u201d.Even if the final numbers, following special votes, allow National to form a single-party majority government, Key will seek support from the Maori Party, ACT and United Future, which between them won four seats, the same group of parties with which he was previously allied.Key said he intended to \u201ctalk to other leaders of political parties, with a view to putting together a broader majority and to ensure a durable and strong government\u201d.Labour had hoped it might build a government encompassing Greens and NZ First, but the party, beleaguered by infighting in the lead-up to the campaign, are left facing a period of introspection, with a number of high-profile MPs losing their seats.Speaking to the party faithful in west Auckland, Cunliffe said he intended to continue as leader, while acknowledging he would go through the selection process required under party rules. The the \u201crebuild of the party and the campaign for the next election\u201d would begin immediately, he said.He lamented \u201ca campaign beset by dirty politics and sideshows, involving potential abuses of power at the highest level that will still take months and months to unravel\u201d, but which had \u201cdistracted from the issues that are more core to the future of our country\u201d.Cunliffe added that the results on the night \u201cclearly stated that wealthy individuals cannot buy politics, be they Kim Dotcom or Colin Craig\u201d.Conventional policy arguments have been squeezed to the edges of the campaign, with two major controversies dominating headlines and putting Key on the defensive. The release of a book by Nicky Hager, Dirty Politics, described links between senior figures in the National Party and the rightwing attack-blog Whale Oil. Further fuel was added to the fire with the repeated release of hacked online correspondence, upon which the book had drawn, by a mysterious character called \u201cRawshark\u201d. The revelations led ultimately to the resignation of the justice minister.Just as the campaign was beginning to regain some normalcy, another intervention stole the spotlight. Hosted by Dotcom, journalist Glenn Greenwald\u2019s arrived in New Zealand promising to disprove Key\u2019s denial that mass surveillance was undertaken by local intelligence agencies. Key denied the claim, dismissing Greenwald a conspiracy theorist, a \u201chenchman\u201d for Dotcom, and even a \u201closer\u201d.The controversy culminated in an event billed by Dotcom as \u201cthe Moment of Truth\u201d at the Auckland Town Hall on Monday night, with Greenwald joined on the big screen by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange. The revelations from Snowden and Greenwald were muddied, however, by Dotcom\u2019s failure to provide the evidence he had promised to unveil showing that John Key had colluded with Hollywood lobbyists in planning for his extradition.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "John Key"], "title": "New Zealand election: John Key leads National to overwhelming victory"},{"date": "2014-08-04T18:15:09Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Vela Manusaute is getting misty-eyed as he talks of his pride in being in Scotland, the country of one of his heroes, \"the greatest of story-tellers\" Robert Louis Stevenson. \"My other hero is Gavin Hastings ... but I don't know that many Scottish people.\"Manusaute is at the Edinburgh Fringe with his musical The Factory \u2013 described as \"the Pacific Les Mis\"\u2013 which explores the difficult lives of Samoan immigrants to New Zealand.The Factory is just one part of New Zealand's biggest ever cultural charge to Edinburgh, with around 240 of the country's performers appearing across the entire festival.The country is a regular presence at Edinburgh in August, just not on this scale. Dick Grant, the chairman of Creative New Zealand, said the project to bring the performers, NZ Edinburgh 2014, had been two years in the planning. \"It is the largest group of leading New Zealand actors, dancers, musicians, visual artists, writers, Maori performing artists, producers and helpers that we have ever taken abroad \u2013 ever.\"The Factory comes to Edinburgh fresh from a tour in Australia and it came about, said Manusaute, because of his mother. \"She told me I should stop doing meaningless comedy work ... which offended me. It was like 'what do you mean, meaningless!'\"His company, Kila Kokonut Krew, had been going 10 years and it was time, he said, to do something big, something which felt important.First performed on a shoestring in a tiny theatre in south Auckland, one of New Zealand's roughest suburbs, The Factory tells the stories of Samoan immigrants to New Zealand who ended up in textile factories and on society's bottom rung.It is still a work in progress but the show's producers have high hopes of bringing it back to the UK on tour as well as taking it to the US.Producer William McKegg said while it was fun and entertaining, it was a show with purpose. \"It is a story about the difficulties and the disappointments and ultimately the redemption of being an immigrant to a new country.\"It was a universal story, he said. \"Either you're an immigrant yourself or you're a host to an immigrant.\"Other New Zealand performances include around 25 Haka performers, a production called Black Faggot which explores what it is like to be young, Samoan and gay and an immersive show titled The Generation of Z where audience members can expect to be chased by zombies.", "tags": ["Edinburgh festival 2014", "Stage", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Culture", "Theatre", "Music", "UK news"], "title": "New Zealand launches biggest ever cultural charge to Edinburgh festival"},{"date": "2014-07-22T00:43:48Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The Coromandel\u2019s charms are no secret \u2014 tens of thousands flock here from the North Island\u2019s urban centres and beyond every summer. Yet it remains just far enough from the madding crowds, as the intermittent weakness of phone signal and the car radio\u2019s scratchiness can attest.The peninsula is full of diddy towns, but you can add an extra zero to the populations of many during high summer. Between these townships, there\u2019s white, craggy coastline, green, velvety conifers and creamy, dreamy sands. A mix of pony-tailed painters, affluent Aucklanders and laid-back locals use it as their hideaway and, as a result, the pace of life needn't rise above a trot.Captain Cook landed on the beach that now takes his name in November 1769, to watch Mercury (hence the Bay\u2019s name) cross the sun. After some astronomical calculations Cook worked out the latitude and longitude, put New Zealand on a map and, while he was at it, planted a British flag on Kiwi soil and claimed the territory for King George III. Never one for resting, Cook then declared a nearby rock formation so crooked that it resembled the Bard\u2019s nose, and thus Shakespeare\u2019s Cliff was born.A wet and windy Wednesday in Whitianga puts paid to fishing and kayaking trips around the bay, but failed to prevent a choppy ride on a glass-bottomed boat to stunning Cathedral Cove. The following day (a less blustery one) I took in the same spots from land with Aotearoa Tours\u2019 excellent guide Darryl \u2013 who came equipped with that trademark Kiwi sense of humour and exceptional local knowledge. The view of Mercury Bay from Shakespeare\u2019s Cliff is stunning and Cathedral Cove is well worth a testy walk down through the Kauri Gum.No trip to the Coromandel peninsula would be complete without stopping off at Hot Water beach. Herein lies the problem, as the only attraction in the area that everyone does, it can be a scrum in summertime. Nevertheless, there\u2019s good reason for its popularity; hire a shovel, dig yourself a pool and wallow in the piping hot water with steam billowing from the sand around you. It\u2019s like a bath that never gets cold, until the incoming tide breaks its barriers. When bath time\u2019s over, and if you're feeling particularly clever, you can use the 67C sands to boil an egg or cook a fish.Just up the road in Whitianga is the wonderful Lost Spring. First things first, this is the only place I visited that insists you leave the sprogs behind. And rightly so, it\u2019s the ultimate hiding place. Get a massage \u2013 trust me, it\u2019ll unpick even the most knotted back \u2013 a seafood platter and a cocktail (best enjoyed in the hottest of the geo-thermal pools, the Crater Lake, which sits at around 40C and is sourced from a geothermal spring 667m under Whitianga). There are cooler pools for the less masochistic. An afternoon spent here should serve to soothe even the most troubled soul.If the novelty of Hot Water beach isn\u2019t your thing, there are plenty of stunning, more conventional sands about. A left-hand break gives Whangamata super surf, while nearby Opoutere is great for twitchers, and Onemana for those looking for total calm.An influx of hippies in the latter half of the last century saw the Coromandel develop into an arty haven. Almost every restaurant, cafe, B&B and winery acts as a gallery with locally produced work hanging, and often selling, on every wall. Otherwise, Topadahill Studio at Opoutere beach, Little Gallery of Fine Arts in Tairua and Bread & Butter Gallery in Whitianga are all worth a visit.For all its charms, Paeroa, the southernmost tip of the peninsula, can\u2019t seem to decide which claim to fame it wants; the whole town seems a homage \u2014 in giant bottle, banner and bunting form \u2014 to Lemon & Paeroa (L&P), that sickly sweet citrusy can of goodness, but it\u2019s also the self-styled antiques capital of New Zealand. The town\u2019s main street has plenty of knickknacky-style shops, shifting seasoned goods that may or may not actually be antique.Paeroa provides a convenient starting point for the Hauraki Rail Trail cycle. Take on the gentle 14km jaunt to Waikino or the ever-so-slightly more challenging trip to Waihi. A crucial pit-stop comes at Ohinemuri Winery, where I sampled the produce with Horst Hillerich, the German proprietor. And not just the fruity Wairau valley sauvignon blanc and excellent Omoka Springs pinot gris, but homegrown herbs and veggies, homemade chutneys and fudge. Back to the ride, which takes you through the 1.1km Karangahake's rail tunnel in almost pitch darkness. It\u2019s also worth checking out the staircase-style Owharoa Falls, Victoria Battery and the Windows Walk, which offers views of the spectacular Karangahake Gorge and Ohinemuri River through holes in the cliff face.Whether you cycle or drive there, Waihi is a town well worth a visit due to a whopping great hole in the ground \u2014 a mine named Martha \u2014 that folk have been taking gold out for well over a century. Unlike Paeroa, Waihi\u2019s identity is clear: it\u2019s a gold town but, with the mine set to close for the second time in the none-too-distant future, it\u2019s a gold town at a crossroads. Thus it\u2019s exciting to hear whispers of adventure sports in the shaft and to see the development of the Gold Discovery Centre, to commemorate and inform of the region\u2019s proud history. Until this opens in September 2014 and the mine closes, take the excellent goldmine tour to get up close and personal with the extraction process, see the majestic Cornish pumphouse and walk around Martha\u2019s 4km perimeter. This is New Zealand, so inevitably there\u2019s a full panorama of stunning scenery and, considering she\u2019s a mine, Martha ain\u2019t too ugly at all.From Waihi, there\u2019s a challenging, winding, hour-long drive up to Tairua, through rugged forest and along jagged coast. Like many of the area\u2019s drives it\u2019s not one for the weary, with hairpin bends and distracting scenery aplenty.I spent the night in two remarkably similar and equally brilliant B&Bs. The first, Sunlover Retreat in Tairua, is \u2013 despite the name \u2013 not a nudist colony and is run by the exceptionally friendly Donna Brooke and her rumbustious labradoodle, Jack. 24 hours later and I\u2019m at Within the Bays in Whitianga. There I\u2019m treated to an equally warm welcome and special stay by Hans and Annemarie Apers, a Dutch couple.Both stays share the same strengths. They are perched high up above their towns, and offer stunning views of the harbours and beyond, with orcas and dolphins sometimes in sight. Both were designed by their proprietors and fulfil the obligatory bed and breakfast requirements brilliantly. The personal touches are a treat; from the homemade goods \u2014 enjoy Hans\u2019 beer, Annemarie\u2019s croissants and Donna\u2019s bread, to the reams of local expertise on offer, the personalised, handwritten bedside note left at Sunlover and the leaving gift from Within the Bays. Every man and his dog has a boat in these parts, so fine seafood is two a penny. In Whitianga, I ate at Squids on Blacksmith Lane, where the fish pie was homely and wholesome and contained local, juicy, muscular mussels. Over the road is the highly recommended \u2014 if slightly fancier \u2014 Salt Bar & Restaurant, and it\u2019s worth popping into the Whitianga Hotel next door for a beer from the impressively-stocked bar or a fine-looking feed. Back in little Tairua, the options are less plentiful but Shells is a big, open-plan place, where succulent Waikato beef and an excellent seafood chowder are the highlights of a varied menu. There fellow patrons trade tales of their seafaring day, before an open fire.These days New Zealand is a country with craft beer dripping from every pore. But a trip to the steaming sand should not pass without a stop off at Hot Water Brewing Company, where the excellent brasserie (super \"fush'n'chups\") is open until late and the beers are so good it\u2019s unlikely the place will remain a secret for long. Watch head brewer Dave Kurth \u2014 formerly of Sharp\u2019s (home of delicious Doom Bar) in Cornwall, in the UK \u2014 at work and sample the citrusy Steamer, passionfruit flavours of Pale and chocolatey smooth Porter. Also, keep an eye out for Lala Coffee, roasted in Coromandel town and delicious all over the peninsula.", "tags": ["Short breaks", "Travel", "Hotels", "Restaurants", "Food and drink", "New Zealand holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Food & drink"], "title": "Three days in the Coromandel, New Zealand \u2013 travel guide"},{"date": "2014-07-28T17:48:23Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Ross Burden, the celebrity chef famous for his appearances on BBC shows including MasterChef and Ready Steady Cook, has died aged 45 after losing a year-long battle against cancer. Burden was diagnosed with leukemia in July last year and died in his native New Zealand. It is thought his condition had worsened after undergoing an unsuccessful bone marrow transplant, which led to an infection.Burden rose to fame after making it to the finals of MasterChef in 1993. He appeared several times on Ready Steady Cook alongside Ainsley Harriott, and went on to publish several recipe books. He returned to New Zealand in 2010 to join the judging panel on the country's first MasterChef series.His fellow judge Simon Gault told the New Zealand Herald: \"He was great to work with. He was never a minute without a laugh or a joke, great sense of humour.\"Other celebrity chefs and presenters took to Twitter to express their sadness over Burden's death. Sue Perkins, the host of the Great British Bake Off, tweeted: \"So sad to hear about Ross Burden. He gamely endured our daytime prattings on light lunch for years. A joy to be around. A proper gent. RIP.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "MasterChef", "Television", "Food TV", "UK news"], "title": "Ross Burden, New Zealand celebrity chef, dies aged 45"},{"date": "2014-09-19T05:19:33Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "There are 70 electorates in New Zealand, including seven Maori electorates that span the country (Maori voters can choose to be on the Maori or general roll). Voters have two ticks: one for an electorate MP, the other for a party. The party vote determines the composition of parliament, with the remaining places in the 120-seat parliament filled from party lists to achieve that.Parties only qualify for list seats if they satisfy at least one of two criteria: reaching 5% of the overall party vote, or winning an electorate seat.New Zealand\u2019s MMP (mixed member proportional) electoral system, introduced in 1996 to replace the first-past-the-post method, usually results in days or weeks of negotiation (aka horse-trading) following the election. A range of possible combinations and configurations are possible. It is rare in MMP-style systems for a single party to receive an absolute majority, and has not happened in New Zealand in the 18 years since the electoral overhaul took place. The National party has frequently polled over 50% in the last few years but goes into the election averaging about 46.5%. A result shy of 50% may nevertheless be enough to win a majority, especially if one or more parties fall narrowly short of the 5% threshold and win no electorate. Their percentage support is proportionately distributed among the surviving parties.The Helen Clark led Labour party in 2002 was, like National in 2014, \u201cin striking distance of getting more than half the seats in parliament\u201d, says Nigel Roberts, a political scientist and adjunct professor at Victoria University of Wellington, but their hopes of ruling alone were \u201ccompletely skedaddled\u201d after the release of a damaging book by Nicky Hagar \u2013 who also wrote Dirty Politics, which derailed the first part of the current campaign. \u201cJudging by the recent polls, I\u2019ll be surprised if National were to get an absolute majority,\u201d says Roberts.Likelihood: lowNational could enter a formal coalition with one of two parties: New Zealand First or the Conservatives, though the latter is polling slightly below the magic 5%. This would see members of the smaller party take full roles in cabinet and pledge collective responsibility. Other smaller parties may still negotiate support arrangements.Likelihood: decent chance Labour are struggling, but not yet out of the race. They have long indicated a preference for a full coalition with the Green party, but they would almost certainly need New Zealand First\u2019s support \u2013 whether in a full-blown coalition or as a support party outside cabinet \u2013 to make it work. On top of that they\u2019d very likely need support in some form from the Kim Dotcom backed Internet Mana party and perhaps even the Maori party.Likelihood: You never know A familiar sight in post-MMP politics is parties agreeing to \u201cconfidence and supply\u201d arrangements, in which support parties guarantee to back the government in confidence votes and on the budget in exchange for policy concessions and ministerial portfolios outside cabinet. This is the model John Key\u2019s National party has adopted in both its past two terms, with support coming from the Maori party\u2019s handful of MPs and one-man bands ACT and United Future, and the option they hope to repeat after Saturday.Likelihood: reasonableBoth main parties might fail to assemble the support to achieve a parliamentary majority, and New Zealand First\u2019s mercurial leader, Winston Peters, who pointedly refuses to discuss post-election deals during campaigning, may announce that his party will give no guarantees to anyone and instead sit on the crossbenches. In that scenario, National, with or without support parties, could chance its arm and go to the governor general asking for parliament to be recalled so that it can test its viability. The approach \u2013 a version of which is being played out in Sweden at the moment \u2013 brings serious risks of instability, however, and international experience suggests that, should another election be required in short time, smaller parties are likely to be punished.\u201cThe danger is that at some point in the future, not having an absolute majority could lead to the defeat of a government,\u201d says Roberts. \u201cOn the other hand, no government in New Zealand has been defeated on a vote of confidence since 1928. And not once under MMP has any vote of confidence realistically come anywhere near succeeding.\u201dLikelihood: lowNew Zealand hasn\u2019t seen a grand coalition in almost 100 years, and it\u2019s not about to happen now, with National and Labour having ruled out the idea, despite some observing that in a number of areas their policies are more compatible with each other\u2019s than with their more likely coalition partners.Likelihood: Not in peacetime", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "John Key"], "title": "New Zealand election: what could happen?"},{"date": "2014-09-18T15:57:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "An election campaign labelled New Zealand's strangest, dirtiest and most dramatic, reaches a climax as voters go to the polls, though it may take days or weeks before a government is agreed.In the last month conventional policy arguments have been squeezed to the margins, with the ruling National party forced to face down revelations of links to a notorious attack-blogger that hogged headlines for a fortnight.That was soon followed by allegations of deception over state surveillance from the NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden and the journalist Glenn Greenwald.In response, the National party leader and prime minister, John Key, maintained a consistent strategy of dismissing the allegations and attacking the messenger's motives and credibility.Key has characterised both Nicky Hager, author of the book Dirty Politics, which draws on emails hacked from the venomous rightwing blogger Cameron Slater, and Greenwald, who arrived in New Zealand last week to expose contradictions in official positions on surveillance, as \"conspiracy theorists\".In the short-term at least it has worked. National party support has dropped a point or two in most polls, but so has that of the main opposition Labour party. A Colmar Brunton poll for One News released on Thursday evening put National on 45%, Labour on 25% and their likely coalition partner, the Green party, on 12%.The political scientist Nigel Roberts, of Victoria University of Wellington, who has covered every New Zealand election since 1972, said the 2014 campaign was the strangest he had witnessed.The Dirty Politics allegations, which were protracted by the hacker's dripfeed of material online and which led to a senior cabinet minister, Judith Collins, resigning, had the impact of an \"ambush\" on both major parties, Roberts said. \"For the first couple of weeks in the campaign, National was seriously off-track and that was also denying Labour some breathing space. People weren't going to Labour to comment on policy questions, they were going to talk about Collins and dirty politics \u2026 so from that point of view the election was hijacked.\"The parties that apparentlyprospered from the scandal were the smaller, non-establishment groups, such as New Zealand First and the Conservatives, one of which National may depend upon to rule after the vote. The Conservative party has been polling just below the 5% threshold required to enter parliament without winning an electorate seat, while NZ First looks certain to return, with the One News poll putting it on 8%.Led by Winston Peters, an alternately captivating and cantankerous evacuee from the National party, NZ First was ruled out as a potential partner by Key in the 2011 campaign, but this time round it has been courted by both sides.Peters is familiar as a potential kingmaker in New Zealand elections since the switch from first-past-the-post to mixed-member proportional representation in 1996. Post-election negotiations have given him secure government roles including treasurer and foreign minister.A paragon of common sense to supporters and a xenophobic sophist to critics, Peters, who is part Maori, is a \"preternaturally charming old-stager\", according to Jane Clifton, a political columnist for the weekly NZ Listener magazine.She said: \"He's got natural charm and charisma, very quick witted, and he's pretty small-c conservative in his political leanings, with a default setting towards protectionism. He's what the National party used to be, in about the 60s and 70s.\"Peters would be more comfortable on a personal level forming a coalition with Labour, but any such deal is complicated by his distaste at the prospect of playing third fiddle to the Greens. He could even eschew both sides and sit his party on the crossbenches.\"I think his joy would be almost greater if, in doing a deal with National, he could make them jump through a whole lot of hoops, and give up a whole lot of stuff. That would humble it, because he's felt disrespected by John Key for a number of years,\" said Clifton.One party that has failed to enjoy a poll spike from the scandals is Internet-Mana. A strategic alliance between the Internet party founded by Kim Dotcom, the New Zealand based internet mogul the US wants to extradite on criminal copyright charges, and the leftwing indigenous-rights-focused Mana Movement, it is currently polling at 2% or less.Internet-Mana may still make it to parliament, however, if Mana's leader, Hone Harawira, wins his seat, which would exempt the party from the threshold rule.Kim Dotcom \u2013 who hosted the Moment of Truth event at Auckland town hall this week featuring Greenwald and, via internet links, Snowden and Julian Assange \u2013 is unable to stand for parliament as a non-citizen, so instead is \"party visionary\". The National party's re-election campaign revolves around two slogans, \"Working for New Zealand\" and \"Team Key\", encapsulating their twin selling points - stable, steady-as-she-goes economic growth and a popular leader.Key, a trader turned politician who combines a CEO-style leadership approach with a down-to-earth, sometimes goofy personal image, continues to rank by far the highest in preferred prime minister polling. The One News survey put him ahead in preferred prime minister polling at 43%, with his nearest rival, the Labour leader, David Cunliffe, on 12%.National has demonstrated a \"gravity-defying nature\" in the face of controversy for some time, said Clifton, and it is not just because of Labour in-fighting. \"It just doesn't seem to matter what the scandal is, National's support base will quarantine it \u2026 but it's not all about a near-majority of people feeling positive about John Key. I think there's a small-c conservatism that follows something like the global financial crisis, which the commentariat might have underestimated.\"Polls close at 7pm local time (0800 BST) on Saturday, and early results are likely within a couple of hours.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand prepares to vote after 'strangest, dirtiest' election campaign"},{"date": "2014-09-20T10:38:31Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The John Key-led National party will return to power in New Zealand for a third consecutive term, having survived waves of scandal during a volatile and antagonistic election campaign to secure an overwhelming victory.National is on the brink of securing the first single-party parliamentary majority since New Zealand moved to its Mixed Member Proportional electoral system in 1996.The result is a disaster for the main opposition Labour party, while the Mana-Internet party experiment, backed by Kim Dotcom, has spectacularly backfired, failing to win so much as a single seat.Arriving at the party\u2019s headquarters on the Auckland waterfront to chants of \u201cthree more years\u201d, Key said the result signalled a \u201cvictory for the people, the policies, the unity and the vision that National will bring to government for the next three years\u201d.Describing himself as \u201chumble and at the same time energised\u201d, Key pledged to \u201ccontinue to provide the strong and stable government that is working for New Zealand\u201d.\u201cWe are the finest little nation on the planet, I truly believe that. Our future as a country is bright, our opportunities are unlimited.\u201dThe provisional final count saw National win 48% of the party vote, which determines the composition of parliament under New Zealand\u2019s proportional system, enough to gain them 61 seats in a 121 seat chamber. The Labour party trailed on 25%, with the Green party on 10% and the New Zealand First Party, which had been picked as a likely kingmaker, on 9%.The rightwing family-values Conservative party, funded by the millions of its leader Colin Craig, finished the night on 4%, failing to reach the crucial 5% threshold that is required to enter parliament by any party without an electorate seat.Dotcom, currently being sought for extradition from New Zealand by the US to face copyright and money laundering charges, brokered and bankrolled to the tune of an estimated NZ $4 million the strategic alliance of the Internet Party with leftwing Maori-focused Mana party with the express purpose of removing John Key\u2019s government.The party\u2019s success hinged on the Mana leader, Hone Harawira, winning his seat, Te Tai Tokerau, to bring other MPs in with him. He was defeated in the Maori electorate by Labour\u2019s Kelvin Davis, however, with National and New Zealand First both having urged their supporters to vote to support Davis and scupper the Dotcom project.The German entrepreneur blamed himself for the result, acknowledging \u201cthe brand Dotcom was poison\u201d.Even if the final numbers, following special votes, allow National to form a single-party majority government, Key will seek support from the Maori Party, ACT and United Future, which between them won four seats, the same group of parties with which he was previously allied.Key said he intended to \u201ctalk to other leaders of political parties, with a view to putting together a broader majority and to ensure a durable and strong government\u201d.Labour had hoped it might build a government encompassing Greens and NZ First, but the party, beleaguered by infighting in the lead-up to the campaign, are left facing a period of introspection, with a number of high-profile MPs losing their seats.Speaking to the party faithful in west Auckland, Cunliffe said he intended to continue as leader, while acknowledging he would go through the selection process required under party rules. The the \u201crebuild of the party and the campaign for the next election\u201d would begin immediately, he said.He lamented \u201ca campaign beset by dirty politics and sideshows, involving potential abuses of power at the highest level that will still take months and months to unravel\u201d, but which had \u201cdistracted from the issues that are more core to the future of our country\u201d.Cunliffe added that the results on the night \u201cclearly stated that wealthy individuals cannot buy politics, be they Kim Dotcom or Colin Craig\u201d.Conventional policy arguments have been squeezed to the edges of the campaign, with two major controversies dominating headlines and putting Key on the defensive. The release of a book by Nicky Hager, Dirty Politics, described links between senior figures in the National Party and the rightwing attack-blog Whale Oil. Further fuel was added to the fire with the repeated release of hacked online correspondence, upon which the book had drawn, by a mysterious character called \u201cRawshark\u201d. The revelations led ultimately to the resignation of the justice minister.Just as the campaign was beginning to regain some normalcy, another intervention stole the spotlight. Hosted by Dotcom, journalist Glenn Greenwald\u2019s arrived in New Zealand promising to disprove Key\u2019s denial that mass surveillance was undertaken by local intelligence agencies. Key denied the claim, dismissing Greenwald a conspiracy theorist, a \u201chenchman\u201d for Dotcom, and even a \u201closer\u201d.The controversy culminated in an event billed by Dotcom as \u201cthe Moment of Truth\u201d at the Auckland Town Hall on Monday night, with Greenwald joined on the big screen by NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden and WikiLeaks founder Julian Assange. The revelations from Snowden and Greenwald were muddied, however, by Dotcom\u2019s failure to provide the evidence he had promised to unveil showing that John Key had colluded with Hollywood lobbyists in planning for his extradition.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "John Key"], "title": "New Zealand election: John Key leads National to overwhelming victory"},{"date": "2014-08-04T18:15:09Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Vela Manusaute is getting misty-eyed as he talks of his pride in being in Scotland, the country of one of his heroes, \"the greatest of story-tellers\" Robert Louis Stevenson. \"My other hero is Gavin Hastings ... but I don't know that many Scottish people.\"Manusaute is at the Edinburgh Fringe with his musical The Factory \u2013 described as \"the Pacific Les Mis\"\u2013 which explores the difficult lives of Samoan immigrants to New Zealand.The Factory is just one part of New Zealand's biggest ever cultural charge to Edinburgh, with around 240 of the country's performers appearing across the entire festival.The country is a regular presence at Edinburgh in August, just not on this scale. Dick Grant, the chairman of Creative New Zealand, said the project to bring the performers, NZ Edinburgh 2014, had been two years in the planning. \"It is the largest group of leading New Zealand actors, dancers, musicians, visual artists, writers, Maori performing artists, producers and helpers that we have ever taken abroad \u2013 ever.\"The Factory comes to Edinburgh fresh from a tour in Australia and it came about, said Manusaute, because of his mother. \"She told me I should stop doing meaningless comedy work ... which offended me. It was like 'what do you mean, meaningless!'\"His company, Kila Kokonut Krew, had been going 10 years and it was time, he said, to do something big, something which felt important.First performed on a shoestring in a tiny theatre in south Auckland, one of New Zealand's roughest suburbs, The Factory tells the stories of Samoan immigrants to New Zealand who ended up in textile factories and on society's bottom rung.It is still a work in progress but the show's producers have high hopes of bringing it back to the UK on tour as well as taking it to the US.Producer William McKegg said while it was fun and entertaining, it was a show with purpose. \"It is a story about the difficulties and the disappointments and ultimately the redemption of being an immigrant to a new country.\"It was a universal story, he said. \"Either you're an immigrant yourself or you're a host to an immigrant.\"Other New Zealand performances include around 25 Haka performers, a production called Black Faggot which explores what it is like to be young, Samoan and gay and an immersive show titled The Generation of Z where audience members can expect to be chased by zombies.", "tags": ["Edinburgh festival 2014", "Stage", "New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Culture", "Theatre", "Music", "UK news"], "title": "New Zealand launches biggest ever cultural charge to Edinburgh festival"},{"date": "2014-07-22T00:43:48Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The Coromandel\u2019s charms are no secret \u2014 tens of thousands flock here from the North Island\u2019s urban centres and beyond every summer. Yet it remains just far enough from the madding crowds, as the intermittent weakness of phone signal and the car radio\u2019s scratchiness can attest.The peninsula is full of diddy towns, but you can add an extra zero to the populations of many during high summer. Between these townships, there\u2019s white, craggy coastline, green, velvety conifers and creamy, dreamy sands. A mix of pony-tailed painters, affluent Aucklanders and laid-back locals use it as their hideaway and, as a result, the pace of life needn't rise above a trot.Captain Cook landed on the beach that now takes his name in November 1769, to watch Mercury (hence the Bay\u2019s name) cross the sun. After some astronomical calculations Cook worked out the latitude and longitude, put New Zealand on a map and, while he was at it, planted a British flag on Kiwi soil and claimed the territory for King George III. Never one for resting, Cook then declared a nearby rock formation so crooked that it resembled the Bard\u2019s nose, and thus Shakespeare\u2019s Cliff was born.A wet and windy Wednesday in Whitianga puts paid to fishing and kayaking trips around the bay, but failed to prevent a choppy ride on a glass-bottomed boat to stunning Cathedral Cove. The following day (a less blustery one) I took in the same spots from land with Aotearoa Tours\u2019 excellent guide Darryl \u2013 who came equipped with that trademark Kiwi sense of humour and exceptional local knowledge. The view of Mercury Bay from Shakespeare\u2019s Cliff is stunning and Cathedral Cove is well worth a testy walk down through the Kauri Gum.No trip to the Coromandel peninsula would be complete without stopping off at Hot Water beach. Herein lies the problem, as the only attraction in the area that everyone does, it can be a scrum in summertime. Nevertheless, there\u2019s good reason for its popularity; hire a shovel, dig yourself a pool and wallow in the piping hot water with steam billowing from the sand around you. It\u2019s like a bath that never gets cold, until the incoming tide breaks its barriers. When bath time\u2019s over, and if you're feeling particularly clever, you can use the 67C sands to boil an egg or cook a fish.Just up the road in Whitianga is the wonderful Lost Spring. First things first, this is the only place I visited that insists you leave the sprogs behind. And rightly so, it\u2019s the ultimate hiding place. Get a massage \u2013 trust me, it\u2019ll unpick even the most knotted back \u2013 a seafood platter and a cocktail (best enjoyed in the hottest of the geo-thermal pools, the Crater Lake, which sits at around 40C and is sourced from a geothermal spring 667m under Whitianga). There are cooler pools for the less masochistic. An afternoon spent here should serve to soothe even the most troubled soul.If the novelty of Hot Water beach isn\u2019t your thing, there are plenty of stunning, more conventional sands about. A left-hand break gives Whangamata super surf, while nearby Opoutere is great for twitchers, and Onemana for those looking for total calm.An influx of hippies in the latter half of the last century saw the Coromandel develop into an arty haven. Almost every restaurant, cafe, B&B and winery acts as a gallery with locally produced work hanging, and often selling, on every wall. Otherwise, Topadahill Studio at Opoutere beach, Little Gallery of Fine Arts in Tairua and Bread & Butter Gallery in Whitianga are all worth a visit.For all its charms, Paeroa, the southernmost tip of the peninsula, can\u2019t seem to decide which claim to fame it wants; the whole town seems a homage \u2014 in giant bottle, banner and bunting form \u2014 to Lemon & Paeroa (L&P), that sickly sweet citrusy can of goodness, but it\u2019s also the self-styled antiques capital of New Zealand. The town\u2019s main street has plenty of knickknacky-style shops, shifting seasoned goods that may or may not actually be antique.Paeroa provides a convenient starting point for the Hauraki Rail Trail cycle. Take on the gentle 14km jaunt to Waikino or the ever-so-slightly more challenging trip to Waihi. A crucial pit-stop comes at Ohinemuri Winery, where I sampled the produce with Horst Hillerich, the German proprietor. And not just the fruity Wairau valley sauvignon blanc and excellent Omoka Springs pinot gris, but homegrown herbs and veggies, homemade chutneys and fudge. Back to the ride, which takes you through the 1.1km Karangahake's rail tunnel in almost pitch darkness. It\u2019s also worth checking out the staircase-style Owharoa Falls, Victoria Battery and the Windows Walk, which offers views of the spectacular Karangahake Gorge and Ohinemuri River through holes in the cliff face.Whether you cycle or drive there, Waihi is a town well worth a visit due to a whopping great hole in the ground \u2014 a mine named Martha \u2014 that folk have been taking gold out for well over a century. Unlike Paeroa, Waihi\u2019s identity is clear: it\u2019s a gold town but, with the mine set to close for the second time in the none-too-distant future, it\u2019s a gold town at a crossroads. Thus it\u2019s exciting to hear whispers of adventure sports in the shaft and to see the development of the Gold Discovery Centre, to commemorate and inform of the region\u2019s proud history. Until this opens in September 2014 and the mine closes, take the excellent goldmine tour to get up close and personal with the extraction process, see the majestic Cornish pumphouse and walk around Martha\u2019s 4km perimeter. This is New Zealand, so inevitably there\u2019s a full panorama of stunning scenery and, considering she\u2019s a mine, Martha ain\u2019t too ugly at all.From Waihi, there\u2019s a challenging, winding, hour-long drive up to Tairua, through rugged forest and along jagged coast. Like many of the area\u2019s drives it\u2019s not one for the weary, with hairpin bends and distracting scenery aplenty.I spent the night in two remarkably similar and equally brilliant B&Bs. The first, Sunlover Retreat in Tairua, is \u2013 despite the name \u2013 not a nudist colony and is run by the exceptionally friendly Donna Brooke and her rumbustious labradoodle, Jack. 24 hours later and I\u2019m at Within the Bays in Whitianga. There I\u2019m treated to an equally warm welcome and special stay by Hans and Annemarie Apers, a Dutch couple.Both stays share the same strengths. They are perched high up above their towns, and offer stunning views of the harbours and beyond, with orcas and dolphins sometimes in sight. Both were designed by their proprietors and fulfil the obligatory bed and breakfast requirements brilliantly. The personal touches are a treat; from the homemade goods \u2014 enjoy Hans\u2019 beer, Annemarie\u2019s croissants and Donna\u2019s bread, to the reams of local expertise on offer, the personalised, handwritten bedside note left at Sunlover and the leaving gift from Within the Bays. Every man and his dog has a boat in these parts, so fine seafood is two a penny. In Whitianga, I ate at Squids on Blacksmith Lane, where the fish pie was homely and wholesome and contained local, juicy, muscular mussels. Over the road is the highly recommended \u2014 if slightly fancier \u2014 Salt Bar & Restaurant, and it\u2019s worth popping into the Whitianga Hotel next door for a beer from the impressively-stocked bar or a fine-looking feed. Back in little Tairua, the options are less plentiful but Shells is a big, open-plan place, where succulent Waikato beef and an excellent seafood chowder are the highlights of a varied menu. There fellow patrons trade tales of their seafaring day, before an open fire.These days New Zealand is a country with craft beer dripping from every pore. But a trip to the steaming sand should not pass without a stop off at Hot Water Brewing Company, where the excellent brasserie (super \"fush'n'chups\") is open until late and the beers are so good it\u2019s unlikely the place will remain a secret for long. Watch head brewer Dave Kurth \u2014 formerly of Sharp\u2019s (home of delicious Doom Bar) in Cornwall, in the UK \u2014 at work and sample the citrusy Steamer, passionfruit flavours of Pale and chocolatey smooth Porter. Also, keep an eye out for Lala Coffee, roasted in Coromandel town and delicious all over the peninsula.", "tags": ["Short breaks", "Travel", "Hotels", "Restaurants", "Food and drink", "New Zealand holidays", "Australasia holidays", "Food & drink"], "title": "Three days in the Coromandel, New Zealand \u2013 travel guide"},{"date": "2014-07-28T17:48:23Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Ross Burden, the celebrity chef famous for his appearances on BBC shows including MasterChef and Ready Steady Cook, has died aged 45 after losing a year-long battle against cancer. Burden was diagnosed with leukemia in July last year and died in his native New Zealand. It is thought his condition had worsened after undergoing an unsuccessful bone marrow transplant, which led to an infection.Burden rose to fame after making it to the finals of MasterChef in 1993. He appeared several times on Ready Steady Cook alongside Ainsley Harriott, and went on to publish several recipe books. He returned to New Zealand in 2010 to join the judging panel on the country's first MasterChef series.His fellow judge Simon Gault told the New Zealand Herald: \"He was great to work with. He was never a minute without a laugh or a joke, great sense of humour.\"Other celebrity chefs and presenters took to Twitter to express their sadness over Burden's death. Sue Perkins, the host of the Great British Bake Off, tweeted: \"So sad to hear about Ross Burden. He gamely endured our daytime prattings on light lunch for years. A joy to be around. A proper gent. RIP.\"", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "MasterChef", "Television", "Food TV", "UK news"], "title": "Ross Burden, New Zealand celebrity chef, dies aged 45"},{"date": "2014-07-15T18:28:06Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Tesco is facing criticism from farmers for promoting New Zealand lamb at the height of the British season for the meat, despite its promises to back local producers.National Farmers' Union (NFU) president Meurig Raymond said he was angry and disappointed that Tesco was promoting imported meat just 18 months after promising farmers at their annual union conference that it would source more red meat closer to home in the wake of the horsemeat scandal.In full-page adverts taken out in the wake of the scandal, in which horsemeat was found in burgers sold in Tesco and other retailers, the supermarket stated: \"We know that the more we work with British farmers the better.\"Raymond said: \"Consumers want to buy our great British product and know when it is in peak season, so it is vitally important at this time of year to give clearly-labelled, home-grown lamb pride of place, when there is a good, affordable and fresh supply on our doorstep.\" He said that the UK had more than enough lamb to be self-sufficient and that grass-fed spring-born British lamb was now in peak season, while meat from the southern hemsiphere was at the end of its season.Tesco said it sold more British lamb than any other retailer and expected to sell more than ever before this season ends.\"We are delivering on our commitment to strengthen our relationships with British sheep farmers through our Tesco Sustainable Lamb Group, which currently supports around 200 farmers,\" a Tesco spokesperson said.The latest clash comes after Tesco was criticised by farmers for cutting the amount of British beef it bought. A report by the National Farmers' Union published in February found that while the supermarket had achieved its promise of sourcing all fresh chicken in the UK, it had not set a timetable for its aim of putting British chicken in all its ready meals and had not even set an \"aspiration\" to source 100% British lamb in season. Tesco said at the time that it did not recognise the 8% fall in its purchase of British beef highlighted by the NFU and that all its beef was sourced in either the UK or Ireland, which customers did not differentiate between.Since then the price of British beef has dived as shoppers continue to shy away from buying processed foods with beef at a time of relatively high stocks.", "tags": ["Tesco", "Supermarkets", "Retail industry", "Business", "Farming", "The meat industry", "Horsemeat scandal", "Food & drink", "Food & drink industry", "UK news"], "title": "Tesco clashes with farmers' union over New Zealand lamb"},{"date": "2015-03-19T06:01:06Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Police in New Zealand have apologised to the young women at the centre of a high-profile investigation into alleged sexual offending, after an independent watchdog said \u201cvictims were let down\u201d by the police response.In November 2013 a group of young men calling themselves the \u201cRoast Busters\u201d were reported to have been boasting on Facebook about having sex with girls who were drunk and suggested to be underage.The group had been active for two years. One of the boys, who were all 17 or 18 and based in Auckland, was revealed to be the son of a police officer and another of a media personality.Police confirmed that they had received four reports relating to the group from girls aged between 13 and 15 since 2011. Their perceived inaction and the extent of the alleged offending prompted national outcry and shone the spotlight on sexual violence in New Zealand. A 2001 study found one in five women and one in 20 men said they had experienced it, and an estimated 90% of offences go unreported.In October police concluded their year-long investigation into seven incidents of alleged sexual offending involving seven victims and five suspects. Thirty-five men, all but two over the age of 17, were assessed as \u201cpersons of interest\u201d and 110 women and girls were interviewed, but no charges were laid.On Thursday the Independent Police Conduct Authority released a report into the police response that found \u201csignificant deficiencies\u201d in the investigation.The IPCA\u2019s chairman, Judge David Carruthers, said victims had been let down by officers\u2019 failure to investigate connections between cases, and to work with outside agencies to prevent \u201cwhat was clearly unacceptable and, in some cases, criminal behaviour\u201d.In a number of cases police failed to follow up lines of inquiry and record details correctly, and there was insufficient supervision of the investigation of individual cases, he said.Carruthers praised officers\u2019 treatment of alleged victims and their families but said the officers\u2019 interaction with the men who were the subjects of the investigation and their families was \u201cinadequate or non-existent\u201d.\u201cThe failure of police to make contact meant the young men\u2019s parents were never made aware of several of the incidents and details of their sons\u2019 involvement and therefore they were unable to intervene or act to address the behaviour,\u201d he said.Nevertheless, the IPCA did not find evidence of widespread poor practice nationally in the police investigation or prosecution of child abuse or sexual assault cases. .It recommended an audit of current cases being investigated by the police unit in question to determine whether shortcomings persisted.The Waitemata police district commander, Superintendent Bill Searle, has apologised to the young women involved, and offered to meet them.\u201cI accept the IPCA\u2019s findings that some of my staff did not meet the required investigation standard \u2026 We clearly let the victims down. This is regrettable and I reassure the public that we\u2019re absolutely committed to making sure this doesn\u2019t happen again.\u201dThe police commissioner, Mike Bush, said the investigations \u201cfell far short of what I and the New Zealand public rightly expect\u201d.\u201cI am very disappointed that we let down the young women at the centre of the Roast Busters allegations,\u201d he said. \u201cThe focus of the modern New Zealand police is putting the victims at the heart of what we do and taking a preventive approach to offending. In both these areas we did not perform to the level required and expected.\u201dAn earlier IPCA report on the police handling of the cases found a \u201csystemic breakdown in communication by police\u201d that led to inaccurate information being provided to the public.", "tags": ["New Zealand"], "title": "New Zealand police apologise to Roast Busters' victims"},{"date": "2015-03-19T06:01:06Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Police in New Zealand have apologised to the young women at the centre of a high-profile investigation into alleged sexual offending, after an independent watchdog said \u201cvictims were let down\u201d by the police response.In November 2013 a group of young men calling themselves the \u201cRoast Busters\u201d were reported to have been boasting on Facebook about having sex with girls who were drunk and suggested to be underage.The group had been active for two years. One of the boys, who were all 17 or 18 and based in Auckland, was revealed to be the son of a police officer and another of a media personality.Police confirmed that they had received four reports relating to the group from girls aged between 13 and 15 since 2011. Their perceived inaction and the extent of the alleged offending prompted national outcry and shone the spotlight on sexual violence in New Zealand. A 2001 study found one in five women and one in 20 men said they had experienced it, and an estimated 90% of offences go unreported.In October police concluded their year-long investigation into seven incidents of alleged sexual offending involving seven victims and five suspects. Thirty-five men, all but two over the age of 17, were assessed as \u201cpersons of interest\u201d and 110 women and girls were interviewed, but no charges were laid.On Thursday the Independent Police Conduct Authority released a report into the police response that found \u201csignificant deficiencies\u201d in the investigation.The IPCA\u2019s chairman, Judge David Carruthers, said victims had been let down by officers\u2019 failure to investigate connections between cases, and to work with outside agencies to prevent \u201cwhat was clearly unacceptable and, in some cases, criminal behaviour\u201d.In a number of cases police failed to follow up lines of inquiry and record details correctly, and there was insufficient supervision of the investigation of individual cases, he said.Carruthers praised officers\u2019 treatment of alleged victims and their families but said the officers\u2019 interaction with the men who were the subjects of the investigation and their families was \u201cinadequate or non-existent\u201d.\u201cThe failure of police to make contact meant the young men\u2019s parents were never made aware of several of the incidents and details of their sons\u2019 involvement and therefore they were unable to intervene or act to address the behaviour,\u201d he said.Nevertheless, the IPCA did not find evidence of widespread poor practice nationally in the police investigation or prosecution of child abuse or sexual assault cases. .It recommended an audit of current cases being investigated by the police unit in question to determine whether shortcomings persisted.The Waitemata police district commander, Superintendent Bill Searle, has apologised to the young women involved, and offered to meet them.\u201cI accept the IPCA\u2019s findings that some of my staff did not meet the required investigation standard \u2026 We clearly let the victims down. This is regrettable and I reassure the public that we\u2019re absolutely committed to making sure this doesn\u2019t happen again.\u201dThe police commissioner, Mike Bush, said the investigations \u201cfell far short of what I and the New Zealand public rightly expect\u201d.\u201cI am very disappointed that we let down the young women at the centre of the Roast Busters allegations,\u201d he said. \u201cThe focus of the modern New Zealand police is putting the victims at the heart of what we do and taking a preventive approach to offending. In both these areas we did not perform to the level required and expected.\u201dAn earlier IPCA report on the police handling of the cases found a \u201csystemic breakdown in communication by police\u201d that led to inaccurate information being provided to the public.", "tags": ["New Zealand"], "title": "New Zealand police apologise to Roast Busters' victims"},{"date": "2015-02-27T23:45:21Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The prime minister has brushed off leadership speculation during his visit to New Zealand for bilateral talks with his counterpart, John Key.Tony Abbott is New Zealand for security and trade talks rounded off with a visit to a World Cup cricket match between the two countries in Auckland on Saturday.The trans-Tasman visit has been dominated by speculation in Canberra about a second leadership spill, with more Liberal MPs believed to have joined the 39 out of 102 who supported a spill motion on February 9.It is unclear whether it is now a party room majority.Both Abbott and Key were asked about the leadership tension after their meeting about Iraq and regional security issues.Abbott dismissed the issue. \u201cI\u2019m just pushing on with the job. I\u2019m, as you would expect, undistracted and undeterred by the hyper ventilating which seems to be taking place at least amongst the media,\u201d he said.Key said it wasn\u2019t his role to get involved in politics on the other side of the Tasman. \u201cThe reality is that there are always times where there is political turmoil and change, an that\u2019s nature of democracy, and we should welcome that as long as that happens on a free and fair basis,\u201d he said. \u201cIn the time that I\u2019ve worked alongside Tony Abbott in his capacity as prime minister, I believe he\u2019s been an outstanding prime minister.\u201dThe trade minister, Andrew Robb, has addressed the roiling leadership speculation at home, saying the prime minister has earned the right to lead the Liberal party.Speaking on Saturday, Robb backed Mr Abbott to lead the government at the next election. \u201cHe has earned the right to take us to the next election,\u201d he told Sky News.\u201cThat is usually the disposition of people when they vote a government in, that they would expect the prime minister to be given the opportunity to play out his program.\u201dThe foreign minister, Julie Bishop, who is a potential leadership candidate, is also in New Zealand, said she knew nothing about a leadership spill motion being planned for next week.\u201cI am not aware of any attempt to bring a spill motion to challenge the leadership. I am not aware of any such approach,\u201d Bishop told New Zealand\u2019s TV3 Network. \u201cThere was a motion for a spill of the leadership a couple of weeks ago, it was defeated.\u201dBishop would not be drawn on whether she would back Abbott in a leadership challenge, labelling it a hypothetical question.\u201cI support the leader that the party has elected,\u201d Bishop added.The communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, is widely touted as the most likely challenger to Abbott.Turnbull has so far refused to be drawn on whether he is considering a tilt at the top job.On Saturday morning, Turnbull again brushed off questions about the federal leadership.\u201cThe single most important choice here in New South Wales is between Mike Baird and Luke Foley,\u201d he told reporters outside his Sydney home.The assistant treasurer, Josh Frydenberg, denied Abbott was in a worse position now than before the leadership spill motion earlier this month. \u201cI don\u2019t think he is,\u201d Frydenberg told Sky News.\u201cHe has been on the job getting around to more than a dozen electorates around the country ... and he\u2019s also made significant announcements on the submarine project on foreign investment review boards activities.\u201cThe government is getting on with the job of governing.\u201dHe said there was \u201cno doubt\u201d that some of the MPs who previously voted in favour of a leadership spill \u201cwanted to bring it on again\u201d.\u201cThey\u2019re in a minority,\u201d he added. He said there were no indications that more Coalition colleagues had turned against the prime minister.Federal MP Bob Katter has likened the Liberal Party to a \u201cpit of snakes\u201d.\u201cIf you\u2019ve got no belief system and what you\u2019ve got is a pit of snakes, that\u2019s all you\u2019ve got,\u201d he told the Nine Network. \u201cEveryone wants to be leader, everyone wants to be in the ministry.\u201cIt would be really nice if the LNP put some people in government who are interested in governing the country, instead of being interested in getting promoted into a ministry or from the ministry into leadership positions.\u201d", "tags": ["Tony Abbott", "Liberal party", "Coalition", "Australian politics", "New South Wales politics", "NSW election 2015", "Australia news", "New Zealand"], "title": "Leadership speculation overshadows Tony Abbott's New Zealand visit"},{"date": "2015-03-19T06:01:06Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Police in New Zealand have apologised to the young women at the centre of a high-profile investigation into alleged sexual offending, after an independent watchdog said \u201cvictims were let down\u201d by the police response.In November 2013 a group of young men calling themselves the \u201cRoast Busters\u201d were reported to have been boasting on Facebook about having sex with girls who were drunk and suggested to be underage.The group had been active for two years. One of the boys, who were all 17 or 18 and based in Auckland, was revealed to be the son of a police officer and another of a media personality.Police confirmed that they had received four reports relating to the group from girls aged between 13 and 15 since 2011. Their perceived inaction and the extent of the alleged offending prompted national outcry and shone the spotlight on sexual violence in New Zealand. A 2001 study found one in five women and one in 20 men said they had experienced it, and an estimated 90% of offences go unreported.In October police concluded their year-long investigation into seven incidents of alleged sexual offending involving seven victims and five suspects. Thirty-five men, all but two over the age of 17, were assessed as \u201cpersons of interest\u201d and 110 women and girls were interviewed, but no charges were laid.On Thursday the Independent Police Conduct Authority released a report into the police response that found \u201csignificant deficiencies\u201d in the investigation.The IPCA\u2019s chairman, Judge David Carruthers, said victims had been let down by officers\u2019 failure to investigate connections between cases, and to work with outside agencies to prevent \u201cwhat was clearly unacceptable and, in some cases, criminal behaviour\u201d.In a number of cases police failed to follow up lines of inquiry and record details correctly, and there was insufficient supervision of the investigation of individual cases, he said.Carruthers praised officers\u2019 treatment of alleged victims and their families but said the officers\u2019 interaction with the men who were the subjects of the investigation and their families was \u201cinadequate or non-existent\u201d.\u201cThe failure of police to make contact meant the young men\u2019s parents were never made aware of several of the incidents and details of their sons\u2019 involvement and therefore they were unable to intervene or act to address the behaviour,\u201d he said.Nevertheless, the IPCA did not find evidence of widespread poor practice nationally in the police investigation or prosecution of child abuse or sexual assault cases. .It recommended an audit of current cases being investigated by the police unit in question to determine whether shortcomings persisted.The Waitemata police district commander, Superintendent Bill Searle, has apologised to the young women involved, and offered to meet them.\u201cI accept the IPCA\u2019s findings that some of my staff did not meet the required investigation standard \u2026 We clearly let the victims down. This is regrettable and I reassure the public that we\u2019re absolutely committed to making sure this doesn\u2019t happen again.\u201dThe police commissioner, Mike Bush, said the investigations \u201cfell far short of what I and the New Zealand public rightly expect\u201d.\u201cI am very disappointed that we let down the young women at the centre of the Roast Busters allegations,\u201d he said. \u201cThe focus of the modern New Zealand police is putting the victims at the heart of what we do and taking a preventive approach to offending. In both these areas we did not perform to the level required and expected.\u201dAn earlier IPCA report on the police handling of the cases found a \u201csystemic breakdown in communication by police\u201d that led to inaccurate information being provided to the public.", "tags": ["New Zealand"], "title": "New Zealand police apologise to Roast Busters' victims"},{"date": "2015-02-27T23:45:21Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The prime minister has brushed off leadership speculation during his visit to New Zealand for bilateral talks with his counterpart, John Key.Tony Abbott is New Zealand for security and trade talks rounded off with a visit to a World Cup cricket match between the two countries in Auckland on Saturday.The trans-Tasman visit has been dominated by speculation in Canberra about a second leadership spill, with more Liberal MPs believed to have joined the 39 out of 102 who supported a spill motion on February 9.It is unclear whether it is now a party room majority.Both Abbott and Key were asked about the leadership tension after their meeting about Iraq and regional security issues.Abbott dismissed the issue. \u201cI\u2019m just pushing on with the job. I\u2019m, as you would expect, undistracted and undeterred by the hyper ventilating which seems to be taking place at least amongst the media,\u201d he said.Key said it wasn\u2019t his role to get involved in politics on the other side of the Tasman. \u201cThe reality is that there are always times where there is political turmoil and change, an that\u2019s nature of democracy, and we should welcome that as long as that happens on a free and fair basis,\u201d he said. \u201cIn the time that I\u2019ve worked alongside Tony Abbott in his capacity as prime minister, I believe he\u2019s been an outstanding prime minister.\u201dThe trade minister, Andrew Robb, has addressed the roiling leadership speculation at home, saying the prime minister has earned the right to lead the Liberal party.Speaking on Saturday, Robb backed Mr Abbott to lead the government at the next election. \u201cHe has earned the right to take us to the next election,\u201d he told Sky News.\u201cThat is usually the disposition of people when they vote a government in, that they would expect the prime minister to be given the opportunity to play out his program.\u201dThe foreign minister, Julie Bishop, who is a potential leadership candidate, is also in New Zealand, said she knew nothing about a leadership spill motion being planned for next week.\u201cI am not aware of any attempt to bring a spill motion to challenge the leadership. I am not aware of any such approach,\u201d Bishop told New Zealand\u2019s TV3 Network. \u201cThere was a motion for a spill of the leadership a couple of weeks ago, it was defeated.\u201dBishop would not be drawn on whether she would back Abbott in a leadership challenge, labelling it a hypothetical question.\u201cI support the leader that the party has elected,\u201d Bishop added.The communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, is widely touted as the most likely challenger to Abbott.Turnbull has so far refused to be drawn on whether he is considering a tilt at the top job.On Saturday morning, Turnbull again brushed off questions about the federal leadership.\u201cThe single most important choice here in New South Wales is between Mike Baird and Luke Foley,\u201d he told reporters outside his Sydney home.The assistant treasurer, Josh Frydenberg, denied Abbott was in a worse position now than before the leadership spill motion earlier this month. \u201cI don\u2019t think he is,\u201d Frydenberg told Sky News.\u201cHe has been on the job getting around to more than a dozen electorates around the country ... and he\u2019s also made significant announcements on the submarine project on foreign investment review boards activities.\u201cThe government is getting on with the job of governing.\u201dHe said there was \u201cno doubt\u201d that some of the MPs who previously voted in favour of a leadership spill \u201cwanted to bring it on again\u201d.\u201cThey\u2019re in a minority,\u201d he added. He said there were no indications that more Coalition colleagues had turned against the prime minister.Federal MP Bob Katter has likened the Liberal Party to a \u201cpit of snakes\u201d.\u201cIf you\u2019ve got no belief system and what you\u2019ve got is a pit of snakes, that\u2019s all you\u2019ve got,\u201d he told the Nine Network. \u201cEveryone wants to be leader, everyone wants to be in the ministry.\u201cIt would be really nice if the LNP put some people in government who are interested in governing the country, instead of being interested in getting promoted into a ministry or from the ministry into leadership positions.\u201d", "tags": ["Tony Abbott", "Liberal party", "Coalition", "Australian politics", "New South Wales politics", "NSW election 2015", "Australia news", "New Zealand"], "title": "Leadership speculation overshadows Tony Abbott's New Zealand visit"},{"date": "2015-02-14T12:00:55Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Rescuers in New Zealand hope to have saved 60 pilot whales after about 140 died when they became stranded on a sandy spit.The pod became beached on Farewell Spit in Golden Bay on Friday in one of the worst such incidents in recent years.There have been numerous whale strandings in the past on the narrow spit at the northern end of the South Island, 95 miles (150km) west of Nelson.Hundreds of conservation staff and volunteers worked to refloat the whales on Friday, but 24 had died by nightfall. Many of the refloated whales became stranded again on Saturday about 4 miles west of the original beaching and subsequently died.Department of Conservation area manager Andrew Lamason said: \u201cEach time they re-strand their health goes down quite dramatically.\u201dWhales re-strand at Farewell Spit http://t.co/PqLCr56z9bThe surviving whales were kept alive on Saturday until they could be refloated at high tide in the early evening.Lead whales were taken out on pontoons and other whales were moved to follow them, Lamason said. \u201cThey\u2019re all off and the lead whales are actually now swimming into deep water and are going in the right direction,\u201d he said. \u201cOur guys are moving in behind them to keep an eye on them and it\u2019s looking quite good.\u201dThe whales will be monitored overnight.Pilot whales grow to about 20ft (6 metres) in length and are the most common species of whale found in New Zealand waters.The geography of Golden Bay meant it was often the site of strandings, Lamason said. \u201cIt\u2019s a big, shallow hook. Things come in, they get disoriented, and unfortunately we end up with a lot of dead whales.\u201cThe whales also go through a lot of physical and emotional trauma. It\u2019s sad but in a way it\u2019s how nature works.\u201dLamason said the incident had been distressing. \u201cThere\u2019s a lot of young ones out there that have already passed away. It\u2019s been quite an emotional time for our staff.\u201d ", "tags": ["Whales", "New Zealand", "Conservation", "Asia Pacific", "Cetaceans", "Marine life", "Wildlife", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand rescuers hope to save 60 stranded whales"},{"date": "2015-03-19T06:01:06Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Police in New Zealand have apologised to the young women at the centre of a high-profile investigation into alleged sexual offending, after an independent watchdog said \u201cvictims were let down\u201d by the police response.In November 2013 a group of young men calling themselves the \u201cRoast Busters\u201d were reported to have been boasting on Facebook about having sex with girls who were drunk and suggested to be underage.The group had been active for two years. One of the boys, who were all 17 or 18 and based in Auckland, was revealed to be the son of a police officer and another of a media personality.Police confirmed that they had received four reports relating to the group from girls aged between 13 and 15 since 2011. Their perceived inaction and the extent of the alleged offending prompted national outcry and shone the spotlight on sexual violence in New Zealand. A 2001 study found one in five women and one in 20 men said they had experienced it, and an estimated 90% of offences go unreported.In October police concluded their year-long investigation into seven incidents of alleged sexual offending involving seven victims and five suspects. Thirty-five men, all but two over the age of 17, were assessed as \u201cpersons of interest\u201d and 110 women and girls were interviewed, but no charges were laid.On Thursday the Independent Police Conduct Authority released a report into the police response that found \u201csignificant deficiencies\u201d in the investigation.The IPCA\u2019s chairman, Judge David Carruthers, said victims had been let down by officers\u2019 failure to investigate connections between cases, and to work with outside agencies to prevent \u201cwhat was clearly unacceptable and, in some cases, criminal behaviour\u201d.In a number of cases police failed to follow up lines of inquiry and record details correctly, and there was insufficient supervision of the investigation of individual cases, he said.Carruthers praised officers\u2019 treatment of alleged victims and their families but said the officers\u2019 interaction with the men who were the subjects of the investigation and their families was \u201cinadequate or non-existent\u201d.\u201cThe failure of police to make contact meant the young men\u2019s parents were never made aware of several of the incidents and details of their sons\u2019 involvement and therefore they were unable to intervene or act to address the behaviour,\u201d he said.Nevertheless, the IPCA did not find evidence of widespread poor practice nationally in the police investigation or prosecution of child abuse or sexual assault cases. .It recommended an audit of current cases being investigated by the police unit in question to determine whether shortcomings persisted.The Waitemata police district commander, Superintendent Bill Searle, has apologised to the young women involved, and offered to meet them.\u201cI accept the IPCA\u2019s findings that some of my staff did not meet the required investigation standard \u2026 We clearly let the victims down. This is regrettable and I reassure the public that we\u2019re absolutely committed to making sure this doesn\u2019t happen again.\u201dThe police commissioner, Mike Bush, said the investigations \u201cfell far short of what I and the New Zealand public rightly expect\u201d.\u201cI am very disappointed that we let down the young women at the centre of the Roast Busters allegations,\u201d he said. \u201cThe focus of the modern New Zealand police is putting the victims at the heart of what we do and taking a preventive approach to offending. In both these areas we did not perform to the level required and expected.\u201dAn earlier IPCA report on the police handling of the cases found a \u201csystemic breakdown in communication by police\u201d that led to inaccurate information being provided to the public.", "tags": ["New Zealand"], "title": "New Zealand police apologise to Roast Busters' victims"},{"date": "2015-02-27T23:45:21Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The prime minister has brushed off leadership speculation during his visit to New Zealand for bilateral talks with his counterpart, John Key.Tony Abbott is New Zealand for security and trade talks rounded off with a visit to a World Cup cricket match between the two countries in Auckland on Saturday.The trans-Tasman visit has been dominated by speculation in Canberra about a second leadership spill, with more Liberal MPs believed to have joined the 39 out of 102 who supported a spill motion on February 9.It is unclear whether it is now a party room majority.Both Abbott and Key were asked about the leadership tension after their meeting about Iraq and regional security issues.Abbott dismissed the issue. \u201cI\u2019m just pushing on with the job. I\u2019m, as you would expect, undistracted and undeterred by the hyper ventilating which seems to be taking place at least amongst the media,\u201d he said.Key said it wasn\u2019t his role to get involved in politics on the other side of the Tasman. \u201cThe reality is that there are always times where there is political turmoil and change, an that\u2019s nature of democracy, and we should welcome that as long as that happens on a free and fair basis,\u201d he said. \u201cIn the time that I\u2019ve worked alongside Tony Abbott in his capacity as prime minister, I believe he\u2019s been an outstanding prime minister.\u201dThe trade minister, Andrew Robb, has addressed the roiling leadership speculation at home, saying the prime minister has earned the right to lead the Liberal party.Speaking on Saturday, Robb backed Mr Abbott to lead the government at the next election. \u201cHe has earned the right to take us to the next election,\u201d he told Sky News.\u201cThat is usually the disposition of people when they vote a government in, that they would expect the prime minister to be given the opportunity to play out his program.\u201dThe foreign minister, Julie Bishop, who is a potential leadership candidate, is also in New Zealand, said she knew nothing about a leadership spill motion being planned for next week.\u201cI am not aware of any attempt to bring a spill motion to challenge the leadership. I am not aware of any such approach,\u201d Bishop told New Zealand\u2019s TV3 Network. \u201cThere was a motion for a spill of the leadership a couple of weeks ago, it was defeated.\u201dBishop would not be drawn on whether she would back Abbott in a leadership challenge, labelling it a hypothetical question.\u201cI support the leader that the party has elected,\u201d Bishop added.The communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, is widely touted as the most likely challenger to Abbott.Turnbull has so far refused to be drawn on whether he is considering a tilt at the top job.On Saturday morning, Turnbull again brushed off questions about the federal leadership.\u201cThe single most important choice here in New South Wales is between Mike Baird and Luke Foley,\u201d he told reporters outside his Sydney home.The assistant treasurer, Josh Frydenberg, denied Abbott was in a worse position now than before the leadership spill motion earlier this month. \u201cI don\u2019t think he is,\u201d Frydenberg told Sky News.\u201cHe has been on the job getting around to more than a dozen electorates around the country ... and he\u2019s also made significant announcements on the submarine project on foreign investment review boards activities.\u201cThe government is getting on with the job of governing.\u201dHe said there was \u201cno doubt\u201d that some of the MPs who previously voted in favour of a leadership spill \u201cwanted to bring it on again\u201d.\u201cThey\u2019re in a minority,\u201d he added. He said there were no indications that more Coalition colleagues had turned against the prime minister.Federal MP Bob Katter has likened the Liberal Party to a \u201cpit of snakes\u201d.\u201cIf you\u2019ve got no belief system and what you\u2019ve got is a pit of snakes, that\u2019s all you\u2019ve got,\u201d he told the Nine Network. \u201cEveryone wants to be leader, everyone wants to be in the ministry.\u201cIt would be really nice if the LNP put some people in government who are interested in governing the country, instead of being interested in getting promoted into a ministry or from the ministry into leadership positions.\u201d", "tags": ["Tony Abbott", "Liberal party", "Coalition", "Australian politics", "New South Wales politics", "NSW election 2015", "Australia news", "New Zealand"], "title": "Leadership speculation overshadows Tony Abbott's New Zealand visit"},{"date": "2015-02-14T12:00:55Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Rescuers in New Zealand hope to have saved 60 pilot whales after about 140 died when they became stranded on a sandy spit.The pod became beached on Farewell Spit in Golden Bay on Friday in one of the worst such incidents in recent years.There have been numerous whale strandings in the past on the narrow spit at the northern end of the South Island, 95 miles (150km) west of Nelson.Hundreds of conservation staff and volunteers worked to refloat the whales on Friday, but 24 had died by nightfall. Many of the refloated whales became stranded again on Saturday about 4 miles west of the original beaching and subsequently died.Department of Conservation area manager Andrew Lamason said: \u201cEach time they re-strand their health goes down quite dramatically.\u201dWhales re-strand at Farewell Spit http://t.co/PqLCr56z9bThe surviving whales were kept alive on Saturday until they could be refloated at high tide in the early evening.Lead whales were taken out on pontoons and other whales were moved to follow them, Lamason said. \u201cThey\u2019re all off and the lead whales are actually now swimming into deep water and are going in the right direction,\u201d he said. \u201cOur guys are moving in behind them to keep an eye on them and it\u2019s looking quite good.\u201dThe whales will be monitored overnight.Pilot whales grow to about 20ft (6 metres) in length and are the most common species of whale found in New Zealand waters.The geography of Golden Bay meant it was often the site of strandings, Lamason said. \u201cIt\u2019s a big, shallow hook. Things come in, they get disoriented, and unfortunately we end up with a lot of dead whales.\u201cThe whales also go through a lot of physical and emotional trauma. It\u2019s sad but in a way it\u2019s how nature works.\u201dLamason said the incident had been distressing. \u201cThere\u2019s a lot of young ones out there that have already passed away. It\u2019s been quite an emotional time for our staff.\u201d ", "tags": ["Whales", "New Zealand", "Conservation", "Asia Pacific", "Cetaceans", "Marine life", "Wildlife", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand rescuers hope to save 60 stranded whales"},{"date": "2015-03-10T22:25:13Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Australia\u2019s defence intelligence agency sent an officer to work with New Zealand\u2019s spy agency to help them develop their cyber capabilities and lead a new operational unit, new documents from NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden reveal.On Wednesday the New Zealand Herald and the Intercept published new revelations about the role of New Zealand\u2019s spy agency, the Government Communications Security Bureau (GCSB) which disclose new details about its role gathering intelligence from Vietnam, China, India, Pakistan, Japan, South Pacific nations and other countries. The disclosures also reveal that the GCSB had access to an NSA program codenamed WARRIORPRIDE used to access phones and computers that \u201ccan collect against an Asean target\u201d. A March 2013 report describes New Zealand working towards improving its cyber capabilities to improve detection, discovery of new tools and disruption of the source of intrusions.In meeting minutes from a joint NSA forum on signals intelligence in 2009, an officer from the Defence Signals Directorate \u2013 now the Australian Signals Directorate \u2013 was sent to help the GCSB set up a \u201cnetwork analysis\u201d team to improve their cyber capabilities. \u201cGCSB is establishing their first network analysis team in October 2009, DSD\u2019s [redacted] will PCS to GCSB for two years to lead this team. The new team will initially be focused on access development and is aimed at proving the utility of network analysis such that a push can be made for additional GCSB billets\u201d.The document goes on to say that GCSB\u2019s \u201caccess development activities\u201d will focus on the South Pacific \u201cand entail closer partnering and engagement with DSD, NZSIS [New Zealand Security Intelligence Service] and Asis [Australian Secret Intelligence Service]. It says this is a \u201ccontinuing high priority issue given the increasing rollout of cable in the South Pacific region\u201d.It is publicly acknowledged that the Australian Signals Directorate engages in cybersecurity operations, although little is known about the details of the operations.In January 2010 a Cyber Security Operations Centre was formed to help understand security threats to Australia and to \u201ccoordinate a response to those threats across government and industry.\u201dThe document also says that the GCSB \u201care also working to gain connectivity to DSD XKEYSCORE\u201d. The XKEYSCORE program allows intelligence analysts to gain access to vast troves of web data from all around the world, in what the NSA says is its \u201cwidest-reaching\u201d system.In a briefing document on the NSA\u2019s intelligence relationship with New Zealand, the GSCB\u2019s cyber operations are described as it\u2019s \u201chighest priority\u201d.The new documents follow earlier revelations by the Intercept and the New Zealand Herald that New Zealand was spying on its neighbours in the Pacific region, and had targeted island nations including Nauru, Tuvalu, Kiribati, Samoa, Vanuatu and the Solomon Islands.New Zealand\u2019s prime minister, John Key, said he stood by an earlier promise he made to resign if his country\u2019s intelligence service had conducted mass surveillance on its citizens, but has continued to deny it has occurred.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Australia news", "The NSA files", "Edward Snowden", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Surveillance", "Australian intelligence agencies"], "title": "Australian spy officer was sent to New Zealand to lead new surveillance unit"},{"date": "2015-03-19T06:01:06Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Police in New Zealand have apologised to the young women at the centre of a high-profile investigation into alleged sexual offending, after an independent watchdog said \u201cvictims were let down\u201d by the police response.In November 2013 a group of young men calling themselves the \u201cRoast Busters\u201d were reported to have been boasting on Facebook about having sex with girls who were drunk and suggested to be underage.The group had been active for two years. One of the boys, who were all 17 or 18 and based in Auckland, was revealed to be the son of a police officer and another of a media personality.Police confirmed that they had received four reports relating to the group from girls aged between 13 and 15 since 2011. Their perceived inaction and the extent of the alleged offending prompted national outcry and shone the spotlight on sexual violence in New Zealand. A 2001 study found one in five women and one in 20 men said they had experienced it, and an estimated 90% of offences go unreported.In October police concluded their year-long investigation into seven incidents of alleged sexual offending involving seven victims and five suspects. Thirty-five men, all but two over the age of 17, were assessed as \u201cpersons of interest\u201d and 110 women and girls were interviewed, but no charges were laid.On Thursday the Independent Police Conduct Authority released a report into the police response that found \u201csignificant deficiencies\u201d in the investigation.The IPCA\u2019s chairman, Judge David Carruthers, said victims had been let down by officers\u2019 failure to investigate connections between cases, and to work with outside agencies to prevent \u201cwhat was clearly unacceptable and, in some cases, criminal behaviour\u201d.In a number of cases police failed to follow up lines of inquiry and record details correctly, and there was insufficient supervision of the investigation of individual cases, he said.Carruthers praised officers\u2019 treatment of alleged victims and their families but said the officers\u2019 interaction with the men who were the subjects of the investigation and their families was \u201cinadequate or non-existent\u201d.\u201cThe failure of police to make contact meant the young men\u2019s parents were never made aware of several of the incidents and details of their sons\u2019 involvement and therefore they were unable to intervene or act to address the behaviour,\u201d he said.Nevertheless, the IPCA did not find evidence of widespread poor practice nationally in the police investigation or prosecution of child abuse or sexual assault cases. .It recommended an audit of current cases being investigated by the police unit in question to determine whether shortcomings persisted.The Waitemata police district commander, Superintendent Bill Searle, has apologised to the young women involved, and offered to meet them.\u201cI accept the IPCA\u2019s findings that some of my staff did not meet the required investigation standard \u2026 We clearly let the victims down. This is regrettable and I reassure the public that we\u2019re absolutely committed to making sure this doesn\u2019t happen again.\u201dThe police commissioner, Mike Bush, said the investigations \u201cfell far short of what I and the New Zealand public rightly expect\u201d.\u201cI am very disappointed that we let down the young women at the centre of the Roast Busters allegations,\u201d he said. \u201cThe focus of the modern New Zealand police is putting the victims at the heart of what we do and taking a preventive approach to offending. In both these areas we did not perform to the level required and expected.\u201dAn earlier IPCA report on the police handling of the cases found a \u201csystemic breakdown in communication by police\u201d that led to inaccurate information being provided to the public.", "tags": ["New Zealand"], "title": "New Zealand police apologise to Roast Busters' victims"},{"date": "2015-02-27T23:45:21Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The prime minister has brushed off leadership speculation during his visit to New Zealand for bilateral talks with his counterpart, John Key.Tony Abbott is New Zealand for security and trade talks rounded off with a visit to a World Cup cricket match between the two countries in Auckland on Saturday.The trans-Tasman visit has been dominated by speculation in Canberra about a second leadership spill, with more Liberal MPs believed to have joined the 39 out of 102 who supported a spill motion on February 9.It is unclear whether it is now a party room majority.Both Abbott and Key were asked about the leadership tension after their meeting about Iraq and regional security issues.Abbott dismissed the issue. \u201cI\u2019m just pushing on with the job. I\u2019m, as you would expect, undistracted and undeterred by the hyper ventilating which seems to be taking place at least amongst the media,\u201d he said.Key said it wasn\u2019t his role to get involved in politics on the other side of the Tasman. \u201cThe reality is that there are always times where there is political turmoil and change, an that\u2019s nature of democracy, and we should welcome that as long as that happens on a free and fair basis,\u201d he said. \u201cIn the time that I\u2019ve worked alongside Tony Abbott in his capacity as prime minister, I believe he\u2019s been an outstanding prime minister.\u201dThe trade minister, Andrew Robb, has addressed the roiling leadership speculation at home, saying the prime minister has earned the right to lead the Liberal party.Speaking on Saturday, Robb backed Mr Abbott to lead the government at the next election. \u201cHe has earned the right to take us to the next election,\u201d he told Sky News.\u201cThat is usually the disposition of people when they vote a government in, that they would expect the prime minister to be given the opportunity to play out his program.\u201dThe foreign minister, Julie Bishop, who is a potential leadership candidate, is also in New Zealand, said she knew nothing about a leadership spill motion being planned for next week.\u201cI am not aware of any attempt to bring a spill motion to challenge the leadership. I am not aware of any such approach,\u201d Bishop told New Zealand\u2019s TV3 Network. \u201cThere was a motion for a spill of the leadership a couple of weeks ago, it was defeated.\u201dBishop would not be drawn on whether she would back Abbott in a leadership challenge, labelling it a hypothetical question.\u201cI support the leader that the party has elected,\u201d Bishop added.The communications minister, Malcolm Turnbull, is widely touted as the most likely challenger to Abbott.Turnbull has so far refused to be drawn on whether he is considering a tilt at the top job.On Saturday morning, Turnbull again brushed off questions about the federal leadership.\u201cThe single most important choice here in New South Wales is between Mike Baird and Luke Foley,\u201d he told reporters outside his Sydney home.The assistant treasurer, Josh Frydenberg, denied Abbott was in a worse position now than before the leadership spill motion earlier this month. \u201cI don\u2019t think he is,\u201d Frydenberg told Sky News.\u201cHe has been on the job getting around to more than a dozen electorates around the country ... and he\u2019s also made significant announcements on the submarine project on foreign investment review boards activities.\u201cThe government is getting on with the job of governing.\u201dHe said there was \u201cno doubt\u201d that some of the MPs who previously voted in favour of a leadership spill \u201cwanted to bring it on again\u201d.\u201cThey\u2019re in a minority,\u201d he added. He said there were no indications that more Coalition colleagues had turned against the prime minister.Federal MP Bob Katter has likened the Liberal Party to a \u201cpit of snakes\u201d.\u201cIf you\u2019ve got no belief system and what you\u2019ve got is a pit of snakes, that\u2019s all you\u2019ve got,\u201d he told the Nine Network. \u201cEveryone wants to be leader, everyone wants to be in the ministry.\u201cIt would be really nice if the LNP put some people in government who are interested in governing the country, instead of being interested in getting promoted into a ministry or from the ministry into leadership positions.\u201d", "tags": ["Tony Abbott", "Liberal party", "Coalition", "Australian politics", "New South Wales politics", "NSW election 2015", "Australia news", "New Zealand"], "title": "Leadership speculation overshadows Tony Abbott's New Zealand visit"},{"date": "2015-02-14T12:00:55Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Rescuers in New Zealand hope to have saved 60 pilot whales after about 140 died when they became stranded on a sandy spit.The pod became beached on Farewell Spit in Golden Bay on Friday in one of the worst such incidents in recent years.There have been numerous whale strandings in the past on the narrow spit at the northern end of the South Island, 95 miles (150km) west of Nelson.Hundreds of conservation staff and volunteers worked to refloat the whales on Friday, but 24 had died by nightfall. Many of the refloated whales became stranded again on Saturday about 4 miles west of the original beaching and subsequently died.Department of Conservation area manager Andrew Lamason said: \u201cEach time they re-strand their health goes down quite dramatically.\u201dWhales re-strand at Farewell Spit http://t.co/PqLCr56z9bThe surviving whales were kept alive on Saturday until they could be refloated at high tide in the early evening.Lead whales were taken out on pontoons and other whales were moved to follow them, Lamason said. \u201cThey\u2019re all off and the lead whales are actually now swimming into deep water and are going in the right direction,\u201d he said. \u201cOur guys are moving in behind them to keep an eye on them and it\u2019s looking quite good.\u201dThe whales will be monitored overnight.Pilot whales grow to about 20ft (6 metres) in length and are the most common species of whale found in New Zealand waters.The geography of Golden Bay meant it was often the site of strandings, Lamason said. \u201cIt\u2019s a big, shallow hook. Things come in, they get disoriented, and unfortunately we end up with a lot of dead whales.\u201cThe whales also go through a lot of physical and emotional trauma. It\u2019s sad but in a way it\u2019s how nature works.\u201dLamason said the incident had been distressing. \u201cThere\u2019s a lot of young ones out there that have already passed away. It\u2019s been quite an emotional time for our staff.\u201d ", "tags": ["Whales", "New Zealand", "Conservation", "Asia Pacific", "Cetaceans", "Marine life", "Wildlife", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand rescuers hope to save 60 stranded whales"},{"date": "2015-03-10T22:25:13Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Australia\u2019s defence intelligence agency sent an officer to work with New Zealand\u2019s spy agency to help them develop their cyber capabilities and lead a new operational unit, new documents from NSA whistleblower Edward Snowden reveal.On Wednesday the New Zealand Herald and the Intercept published new revelations about the role of New Zealand\u2019s spy agency, the Government Communications Security Bureau (GCSB) which disclose new details about its role gathering intelligence from Vietnam, China, India, Pakistan, Japan, South Pacific nations and other countries. The disclosures also reveal that the GCSB had access to an NSA program codenamed WARRIORPRIDE used to access phones and computers that \u201ccan collect against an Asean target\u201d. A March 2013 report describes New Zealand working towards improving its cyber capabilities to improve detection, discovery of new tools and disruption of the source of intrusions.In meeting minutes from a joint NSA forum on signals intelligence in 2009, an officer from the Defence Signals Directorate \u2013 now the Australian Signals Directorate \u2013 was sent to help the GCSB set up a \u201cnetwork analysis\u201d team to improve their cyber capabilities. \u201cGCSB is establishing their first network analysis team in October 2009, DSD\u2019s [redacted] will PCS to GCSB for two years to lead this team. The new team will initially be focused on access development and is aimed at proving the utility of network analysis such that a push can be made for additional GCSB billets\u201d.The document goes on to say that GCSB\u2019s \u201caccess development activities\u201d will focus on the South Pacific \u201cand entail closer partnering and engagement with DSD, NZSIS [New Zealand Security Intelligence Service] and Asis [Australian Secret Intelligence Service]. It says this is a \u201ccontinuing high priority issue given the increasing rollout of cable in the South Pacific region\u201d.It is publicly acknowledged that the Australian Signals Directorate engages in cybersecurity operations, although little is known about the details of the operations.In January 2010 a Cyber Security Operations Centre was formed to help understand security threats to Australia and to \u201ccoordinate a response to those threats across government and industry.\u201dThe document also says that the GCSB \u201care also working to gain connectivity to DSD XKEYSCORE\u201d. The XKEYSCORE program allows intelligence analysts to gain access to vast troves of web data from all around the world, in what the NSA says is its \u201cwidest-reaching\u201d system.In a briefing document on the NSA\u2019s intelligence relationship with New Zealand, the GSCB\u2019s cyber operations are described as it\u2019s \u201chighest priority\u201d.The new documents follow earlier revelations by the Intercept and the New Zealand Herald that New Zealand was spying on its neighbours in the Pacific region, and had targeted island nations including Nauru, Tuvalu, Kiribati, Samoa, Vanuatu and the Solomon Islands.New Zealand\u2019s prime minister, John Key, said he stood by an earlier promise he made to resign if his country\u2019s intelligence service had conducted mass surveillance on its citizens, but has continued to deny it has occurred.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Australia news", "The NSA files", "Edward Snowden", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Surveillance", "Australian intelligence agencies"], "title": "Australian spy officer was sent to New Zealand to lead new surveillance unit"},{"date": "2015-02-04T14:00:00Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A New Zealand high court judge is to be the new head of the official inquiry into child abuse, the home secretary, Theresa May, has announced.Justice Lowell Goddard, who has already conducted one inquiry into the police handling of child abuse in New Zealand, said she was well aware of the scale of the \u201ccrucial inquiry\u201d that faced her.\u201cThe inquiry will be long, challenging and complex,\u201d she said. \u201cThe many, many survivors of child sexual abuse, committed over decades, deserve a robust and thorough investigation of the appalling crimes perpetrated on them. It is vitally important that their voices are now being heard.\u201dGoddard, who will arrive in Britain next week when she will face a confirmation hearing before the Commons home affairs committee, said she was committed to \u201cleading a robust and independent inquiry that will act on these matters without fear or favour and will hold those responsible to account\u201d. Related: Lowell Goddard profile: judge \u2018has key qualities\u2019 to lead child abuse inquiry She added: \u201cThe outcome of the inquiry must ensure that the children of today and the future will not only be protected from such dreadful exploitation but empowered to combat it.\u201dGoddard\u2019s appointment as the third head of the troubled inquiry was immediately welcomed by survivors\u2019 groups and MPs after May made clear her renewed determination to expose \u201cthe hard truths\u201d about past child sex abuse, those who had failed to act and those who \u201cpositively covered up evidence of abuse\u201d. Related: Child abuse inquiry: incompetence made thankless job near-impossible May also confirmed she was to disband the current inquiry panel, which has been repeatedly hit by leaks of confidential information and allegations of bullying. A new statutory inquiry is to be set up with a fresh panel and terms of reference.The home secretary told MPs that the inquiry was now likely to examine cases earlier than its current 1970 cut-off date, with survivors\u2019 groups pressing for cases as far back as 1945 to be included. However she made clear the investigation would not extend beyond its current geographical remit of England and Wales. Related: Child abuse inquiry\u2019s legal adviser is asked to explain \u2018bullying\u2019 row to MPs She also demonstrated her confidence in Ben Emmerson QC, the current counsel to the inquiry who has faced allegations of bullying by one panel member that have proved to be unfounded. Emmerson is to continue in his role.Emmerson said the constitution of a statutory inquiry means it will now have powers to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of evidence by institutions and individuals.He said: \u201cJustice Goddard and her legal advisers will be able to review open and classified sources. This new inquiry will therefore have all the powers it needs to penetrate deeply into the institutions that have failed children in the past, and to identify those institutions that are reportedly continuing to fail children today. And it will do so under the leadership of an exceptionally experienced judge.\u201dThe home secretary also reassured MPs that the Official Secrets Act would not be a bar on those giving evidence to the inquiry and all government departments would be asked to cooperate including in the provision of secret information.She also said a \u201csmall number\u201d of further Cabinet Office files had been identified, in addition to the file on Sir Peter Hayman discovered in the National Archives, which should have been passed to last summer\u2019s Home Office inquiry. They will be passed to the inquiry and police.", "tags": ["UK news", "Child protection", "Politics", "Children", "Social care", "Society"], "title": "New Zealand high court judge named as new chair of child abuse inquiry"},{"date": "2015-06-25T00:56:48Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Four environmental protesters have breached security at New Zealand\u2019s parliament by scaling the roof and perching themselves on a ledge above the main entrance.The Greenpeace protesters on Thursday hauled up eight solar panels and unfurled a banner to protest what they say is the government\u2019s lack of action in promoting renewal energy and dealing with climate change.The protest began at dawn and continued throughout the morning. Police issued the four with trespass notices, but authorities say they plan to allow the protesters to come down on their own.The breach will come as an embarrassment to the parliament\u2019s security services.David Stevenson, the general manager of Parliamentary Service, said in a statement he had ordered a full review of security procedures as a result of the breach.\u201cTrespassing in or on the buildings is totally inappropriate, regardless of the motivations of those involved,\u201d he said. \u201cWe are therefore taking this incident very seriously and will be looking for any lessons we can draw from it.\u201dThe view outside our window this morning. pic.twitter.com/f0e8jgRUKwThe forecourt in front of the main entrance is frequently used for sanctioned protests.Speaking from a cellphone, protester Johno Smith told the Associated Press that the four were experienced climbers and that they planned to come down on Thursday afternoon \u201cbefore it gets too cold.\u201dHe said he hoped the protest would inspire people to act. \u201cWe need to take clean-energy action,\u201d he said. \u201cOur society is based around fossil fuels.\u201dAbout 77% of New Zealand\u2019s electricity generation comes from renewable sources, including hydroelectric, geothermal and wind. The country\u2019s vehicle fleet, on the other hand, primarily uses gasoline and diesel.Bunny McDiarmid, Greenpeace New Zealand\u2019s executive director, tweeted: \u201cSecurity breach at parliament security breach of the planet? You choose.\u201dThe climbers continued to publicise their protest from the roof, tweeting pictures of themselves and engaging in an \u201cask me anything\u201d question-and-answer webchat on Reddit.One of the protesters, named only as Jeff, told Reddit users that police officers on the ground were a \u201cfriendly bunch\u201d, adding: \u201cNo signs of them comin [sic] up which is good, much safer for us. Best if we come down ourselves.\u201d\"I just hope that other people are inspired to stand up for what they believe in\" - shot Johno... #realclimateaction pic.twitter.com/Brtti5jece", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Climate change", "Environment", "Greenpeace", "Activism", "Auckland"], "title": "New Zealand Greenpeace protesters scale parliament roof"},{"date": "2015-06-25T00:56:48Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Four environmental protesters have breached security at New Zealand\u2019s parliament by scaling the roof and perching themselves on a ledge above the main entrance.The Greenpeace protesters on Thursday hauled up eight solar panels and unfurled a banner to protest what they say is the government\u2019s lack of action in promoting renewal energy and dealing with climate change.The protest began at dawn and continued throughout the morning. Police issued the four with trespass notices, but authorities say they plan to allow the protesters to come down on their own.The breach will come as an embarrassment to the parliament\u2019s security services.David Stevenson, the general manager of Parliamentary Service, said in a statement he had ordered a full review of security procedures as a result of the breach.\u201cTrespassing in or on the buildings is totally inappropriate, regardless of the motivations of those involved,\u201d he said. \u201cWe are therefore taking this incident very seriously and will be looking for any lessons we can draw from it.\u201dThe view outside our window this morning. pic.twitter.com/f0e8jgRUKwThe forecourt in front of the main entrance is frequently used for sanctioned protests.Speaking from a cellphone, protester Johno Smith told the Associated Press that the four were experienced climbers and that they planned to come down on Thursday afternoon \u201cbefore it gets too cold.\u201dHe said he hoped the protest would inspire people to act. \u201cWe need to take clean-energy action,\u201d he said. \u201cOur society is based around fossil fuels.\u201dAbout 77% of New Zealand\u2019s electricity generation comes from renewable sources, including hydroelectric, geothermal and wind. The country\u2019s vehicle fleet, on the other hand, primarily uses gasoline and diesel.Bunny McDiarmid, Greenpeace New Zealand\u2019s executive director, tweeted: \u201cSecurity breach at parliament security breach of the planet? You choose.\u201dThe climbers continued to publicise their protest from the roof, tweeting pictures of themselves and engaging in an \u201cask me anything\u201d question-and-answer webchat on Reddit.One of the protesters, named only as Jeff, told Reddit users that police officers on the ground were a \u201cfriendly bunch\u201d, adding: \u201cNo signs of them comin [sic] up which is good, much safer for us. Best if we come down ourselves.\u201d\"I just hope that other people are inspired to stand up for what they believe in\" - shot Johno... #realclimateaction pic.twitter.com/Brtti5jece", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Climate change", "Environment", "Greenpeace", "Activism", "Auckland"], "title": "New Zealand Greenpeace protesters scale parliament roof"},{"date": "2015-06-23T04:15:38Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "All scheduled flights were prevented briefly from taking off in New Zealand on Tuesday after a radar fault struck.Airways New Zealand, which manages air traffic control, grounded all commercial airlines at airports across the country.The fault struck at 2.48pm and led to delays, with passengers sitting on planes on the tarmac. A spokesman for the aviation authority said the fault was eventually rectified and services resumed about 4.20pm. A statement from Airways New Zealand said: \u201cAt no point was the safety of any airport operations compromised.\u201dDelays were expected to continue throughout the afternoon.Earlier, after the grounding order was put out, a spokesman said: \u201cThere has been a radar failure that has occurred at 2.48pm [02.48 GMT] this afternoon; we are working on the issue at the moment. \u201cThe impact is that all aircraft have been held on the ground. There are no aircraft taking off across the country. The aircraft that are in the air have been cleared to land.\u201dAt 2.48pm today 23/6/15 we experienced a radar failure. We are working on the issue, and will provide an update.rtpt We are holding all aircraft on the ground, however those in the air will be cleared to land.We will provide an update on the radar fault once we've determined the cause of the issue. Flights are being grounded at the moment.", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Air transport", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Auckland"], "title": "New Zealand grounds all flights after national radar outage"},{"date": "2015-09-09T15:27:59Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Silent readings of Ted Dawe\u2019s Into the River are being planned across New Zealand tomorrow in protest at the much-praised young adult novel\u2019s nationwide ban.Following a complaint from Christian group Family First about the award-winning title\u2019s \u201cdetailed descriptions of sex acts, coarse language and scenes of drug-taking\u201d, New Zealand\u2019s Board of Film and Literature Review has placed an interim restriction order on Into the River, meaning that \u201cno one in New Zealand can distribute, or exhibit, the book\u201d. Individuals who breach the order face a fine of $3,000 and companies who breach it will be fined $10,000. The board will revise the order and consider a permanent age restriction for the novel in October.Into the River, the coming-of-age story of a Maori boy whose intelligence wins him a place at a prestigious boarding school, where he faces racism and bullying, won Dawe the 2013 New Zealand Post Margaret Mahy Book of the Year award. Its ban has prompted a wave of outrage from New Zealanders, authors and the international book community, with silent readings planned tomorrow in Auckland, Dunedin and Wellington as the literary world throws its weight behind Dawe. Related: Can you pick the quotes from Ted Dawe's banned novel Into the River? Auckland\u2019s Time Out bookstore, meanwhile, has pulled together a window display of previously banned books from Animal Farm to The Catcher in the Rye, including Into the River inside a paper bag, in protest at the ban. \u201cInto The River can be a confronting book, but it\u2019s an honest one. We look forward to removing the paper bag and selling it again,\u201d wrote the bookshop\u2019s Jenna Todd. \u201cIt\u2019s gritty, unapologetic and raw. It contains sex, drugs and swear words. But when read in context, its confronting scenes add depth to the protagonist Te Arepa\u2019s toxic surroundings. Many of the so-called scandalous and \u2018offensive\u2019 scenes result in negative experiences for him. It\u2019s a good book. And this week, I have been told we will be fined $10,000 if we sell or display it.\u201dThe New Zealand Book Council said it was \u201calarmed\u201d by the decision to impose the interim ban, and that if an age restriction is imposed on the \u201cchallenging and ambitious novel that explores the reality of what many young people are struggling with in New Zealand today\u201d, it will \u201cset a dangerous precedent, which could lead to more books being restricted in New Zealand\u201d.The Publishers Association of New Zealand also condemned the ban of the \u201chighly regarded piece of literature, charged with influencing and changing the lives of many of its teenage male readers\u201d. \u201cThis is an unprecedented and extreme action by the Film and Literature Board of Review,\u201d said president Melanie Laville-Moore. \u201cBanning books is not the New Zealand way.\u201dDawe, head of studies at Taylors College for international students in Auckland, told the New Zealand Herald that \u201cNew Zealand has taken a giant step towards that sort of regulatory moralising that I think most people felt we had left far in our past\u201d. He added that \u201cpeople involved with teaching boys, especially English teachers, know how important books like this are because they speak to boys about the things that other boys\u2019 books don\u2019t have the firepower or the vitality to do effectively\u201d. Into the River \u201cwas never about sex and drugs, it was always about bullying and how that damages people for the rest of their lives. That is really the underlying theme; everything else is just the trappings that go along with that,\u201d he said.Readers and authors around the world have vowed to buy and read the novel in solidarity with Dawe. The award-winning young adult author James Dawson told the Guardian: \u201cHistory does not look kindly on the banning, or indeed burning, of books. This is the worst kind of censorship, and doubly surprising from a country like New Zealand which is in so many ways forward-thinking. On the plus side, I hadn\u2019t previously heard of this title, but you can bet your bottom dollar I\u2019ll be seeking it out now.\u201d", "tags": ["Books", "Banned Books Week", "Censorship", "New Zealand", "Children and teenagers", "Young people", "Culture", "Auckland"], "title": "New Zealand protests planned in solidarity with banned book"},{"date": "2015-09-09T15:27:59Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Silent readings of Ted Dawe\u2019s Into the River are being planned across New Zealand tomorrow in protest at the much-praised young adult novel\u2019s nationwide ban.Following a complaint from Christian group Family First about the award-winning title\u2019s \u201cdetailed descriptions of sex acts, coarse language and scenes of drug-taking\u201d, New Zealand\u2019s Board of Film and Literature Review has placed an interim restriction order on Into the River, meaning that \u201cno one in New Zealand can distribute, or exhibit, the book\u201d. Individuals who breach the order face a fine of $3,000 and companies who breach it will be fined $10,000. The board will revise the order and consider a permanent age restriction for the novel in October.Into the River, the coming-of-age story of a Maori boy whose intelligence wins him a place at a prestigious boarding school, where he faces racism and bullying, won Dawe the 2013 New Zealand Post Margaret Mahy Book of the Year award. Its ban has prompted a wave of outrage from New Zealanders, authors and the international book community, with silent readings planned tomorrow in Auckland, Dunedin and Wellington as the literary world throws its weight behind Dawe. Related: Can you pick the quotes from Ted Dawe's banned novel Into the River? Auckland\u2019s Time Out bookstore, meanwhile, has pulled together a window display of previously banned books from Animal Farm to The Catcher in the Rye, including Into the River inside a paper bag, in protest at the ban. \u201cInto The River can be a confronting book, but it\u2019s an honest one. We look forward to removing the paper bag and selling it again,\u201d wrote the bookshop\u2019s Jenna Todd. \u201cIt\u2019s gritty, unapologetic and raw. It contains sex, drugs and swear words. But when read in context, its confronting scenes add depth to the protagonist Te Arepa\u2019s toxic surroundings. Many of the so-called scandalous and \u2018offensive\u2019 scenes result in negative experiences for him. It\u2019s a good book. And this week, I have been told we will be fined $10,000 if we sell or display it.\u201dThe New Zealand Book Council said it was \u201calarmed\u201d by the decision to impose the interim ban, and that if an age restriction is imposed on the \u201cchallenging and ambitious novel that explores the reality of what many young people are struggling with in New Zealand today\u201d, it will \u201cset a dangerous precedent, which could lead to more books being restricted in New Zealand\u201d.The Publishers Association of New Zealand also condemned the ban of the \u201chighly regarded piece of literature, charged with influencing and changing the lives of many of its teenage male readers\u201d. \u201cThis is an unprecedented and extreme action by the Film and Literature Board of Review,\u201d said president Melanie Laville-Moore. \u201cBanning books is not the New Zealand way.\u201dDawe, head of studies at Taylors College for international students in Auckland, told the New Zealand Herald that \u201cNew Zealand has taken a giant step towards that sort of regulatory moralising that I think most people felt we had left far in our past\u201d. He added that \u201cpeople involved with teaching boys, especially English teachers, know how important books like this are because they speak to boys about the things that other boys\u2019 books don\u2019t have the firepower or the vitality to do effectively\u201d. Into the River \u201cwas never about sex and drugs, it was always about bullying and how that damages people for the rest of their lives. That is really the underlying theme; everything else is just the trappings that go along with that,\u201d he said.Readers and authors around the world have vowed to buy and read the novel in solidarity with Dawe. The award-winning young adult author James Dawson told the Guardian: \u201cHistory does not look kindly on the banning, or indeed burning, of books. This is the worst kind of censorship, and doubly surprising from a country like New Zealand which is in so many ways forward-thinking. On the plus side, I hadn\u2019t previously heard of this title, but you can bet your bottom dollar I\u2019ll be seeking it out now.\u201d", "tags": ["Books", "Banned Books Week", "Censorship", "New Zealand", "Children and teenagers", "Young people", "Culture", "Auckland"], "title": "New Zealand protests planned in solidarity with banned book"},{"date": "2015-08-21T01:09:46Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The head of New Zealand\u2019s national deerstalkers\u2019 association has apologised \u201cto the country at large\u201d after four critically endangered takah\u0113 were mistakenly shot by hunters carrying out a cull of a somewhat similar-looking bird.Deerstalkers were contracted by the Department of Conservation to carry out a cull of pukeko, a non-endangered, very common relative of the takah\u0113, on an island sanctuary in Auckland\u2019s Hauraki Gulf.Conservation staff discovered four dead takah\u0113, killed by shotgun pellets, on Motutapu Island on 17 August.The New Zealand Deerstalkers\u2019 Association president, Bill O\u2019Leary, has said he was \u201cquite frankly \u2026 appalled\u201d by the error and apologised \u201cto the department and to the country at large\u201d. Related: Conservationists turn tiny New Zealand island into bold wildlife experiment The takah\u0113 is a threatened species, native to New Zealand and listed as nationally critical. It was thought to be extinct until a bird was rediscovered in 1948. The conservation department has since invested hundreds of thousands of dollars in rebuilding the population, with its public-private recovery program aiming to establish 125 breeding pairs by 2002.There are now about 300 birds alive in New Zealand, only between 70 and 80 of which are in the wild. The loss of the four dead birds discovered on Monday amounts to a 5% decrease in the population. It is broadly equivalent to the loss of 160 tigers or 93 pandas.Before the shootings there were 22 birds on Motutapu Island, one of the conservation department\u2019s predator-free \u201csecurity sites\u201d.The cull of pukeko \u2013 a native swamphen that is found in vast numbers across the country \u2013 was organised because of the damage they cause to the nests and eggs of threatened species. Deerstalkers carried out successful culls on the island in 2012 and 2013.The department has said that hunters had been carefully briefed on how to differentiate between the species, with takah\u0113 about twice the size of pukeko, and flightless. They had also been instructed to only shoot birds on the wing.The guidelines were introduced seven years ago, after one takah\u0113 was mistakenly shot during a pukeko cull on Mana Island, another sanctuary off the Wellington coast.The Department of Conservation website dispels suggestions that takah\u0113 are \u201cjust fat pukeko\u201d but concedes the two species look \u201csimilar\u201d.The department has put an immediate halt to the cull as it investigates both its internal processes and the program with the deerstalkers\u2019 association, which it says is \u201ccooperating fully\u201d with its inquiries.", "tags": ["Endangered species", "Environment", "New Zealand", "Conservation", "Birds", "Wildlife", "Animals", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand hunters apologise over accidental shooting of takah\u0113"},{"date": "2015-09-09T15:27:59Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Silent readings of Ted Dawe\u2019s Into the River are being planned across New Zealand tomorrow in protest at the much-praised young adult novel\u2019s nationwide ban.Following a complaint from Christian group Family First about the award-winning title\u2019s \u201cdetailed descriptions of sex acts, coarse language and scenes of drug-taking\u201d, New Zealand\u2019s Board of Film and Literature Review has placed an interim restriction order on Into the River, meaning that \u201cno one in New Zealand can distribute, or exhibit, the book\u201d. Individuals who breach the order face a fine of $3,000 and companies who breach it will be fined $10,000. The board will revise the order and consider a permanent age restriction for the novel in October.Into the River, the coming-of-age story of a Maori boy whose intelligence wins him a place at a prestigious boarding school, where he faces racism and bullying, won Dawe the 2013 New Zealand Post Margaret Mahy Book of the Year award. Its ban has prompted a wave of outrage from New Zealanders, authors and the international book community, with silent readings planned tomorrow in Auckland, Dunedin and Wellington as the literary world throws its weight behind Dawe. Related: Can you pick the quotes from Ted Dawe's banned novel Into the River? Auckland\u2019s Time Out bookstore, meanwhile, has pulled together a window display of previously banned books from Animal Farm to The Catcher in the Rye, including Into the River inside a paper bag, in protest at the ban. \u201cInto The River can be a confronting book, but it\u2019s an honest one. We look forward to removing the paper bag and selling it again,\u201d wrote the bookshop\u2019s Jenna Todd. \u201cIt\u2019s gritty, unapologetic and raw. It contains sex, drugs and swear words. But when read in context, its confronting scenes add depth to the protagonist Te Arepa\u2019s toxic surroundings. Many of the so-called scandalous and \u2018offensive\u2019 scenes result in negative experiences for him. It\u2019s a good book. And this week, I have been told we will be fined $10,000 if we sell or display it.\u201dThe New Zealand Book Council said it was \u201calarmed\u201d by the decision to impose the interim ban, and that if an age restriction is imposed on the \u201cchallenging and ambitious novel that explores the reality of what many young people are struggling with in New Zealand today\u201d, it will \u201cset a dangerous precedent, which could lead to more books being restricted in New Zealand\u201d.The Publishers Association of New Zealand also condemned the ban of the \u201chighly regarded piece of literature, charged with influencing and changing the lives of many of its teenage male readers\u201d. \u201cThis is an unprecedented and extreme action by the Film and Literature Board of Review,\u201d said president Melanie Laville-Moore. \u201cBanning books is not the New Zealand way.\u201dDawe, head of studies at Taylors College for international students in Auckland, told the New Zealand Herald that \u201cNew Zealand has taken a giant step towards that sort of regulatory moralising that I think most people felt we had left far in our past\u201d. He added that \u201cpeople involved with teaching boys, especially English teachers, know how important books like this are because they speak to boys about the things that other boys\u2019 books don\u2019t have the firepower or the vitality to do effectively\u201d. Into the River \u201cwas never about sex and drugs, it was always about bullying and how that damages people for the rest of their lives. That is really the underlying theme; everything else is just the trappings that go along with that,\u201d he said.Readers and authors around the world have vowed to buy and read the novel in solidarity with Dawe. The award-winning young adult author James Dawson told the Guardian: \u201cHistory does not look kindly on the banning, or indeed burning, of books. This is the worst kind of censorship, and doubly surprising from a country like New Zealand which is in so many ways forward-thinking. On the plus side, I hadn\u2019t previously heard of this title, but you can bet your bottom dollar I\u2019ll be seeking it out now.\u201d", "tags": ["Books", "Banned Books Week", "Censorship", "New Zealand", "Children and teenagers", "Young people", "Culture", "Auckland"], "title": "New Zealand protests planned in solidarity with banned book"},{"date": "2015-08-21T01:09:46Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "The head of New Zealand\u2019s national deerstalkers\u2019 association has apologised \u201cto the country at large\u201d after four critically endangered takah\u0113 were mistakenly shot by hunters carrying out a cull of a somewhat similar-looking bird.Deerstalkers were contracted by the Department of Conservation to carry out a cull of pukeko, a non-endangered, very common relative of the takah\u0113, on an island sanctuary in Auckland\u2019s Hauraki Gulf.Conservation staff discovered four dead takah\u0113, killed by shotgun pellets, on Motutapu Island on 17 August.The New Zealand Deerstalkers\u2019 Association president, Bill O\u2019Leary, has said he was \u201cquite frankly \u2026 appalled\u201d by the error and apologised \u201cto the department and to the country at large\u201d. Related: Conservationists turn tiny New Zealand island into bold wildlife experiment The takah\u0113 is a threatened species, native to New Zealand and listed as nationally critical. It was thought to be extinct until a bird was rediscovered in 1948. The conservation department has since invested hundreds of thousands of dollars in rebuilding the population, with its public-private recovery program aiming to establish 125 breeding pairs by 2002.There are now about 300 birds alive in New Zealand, only between 70 and 80 of which are in the wild. The loss of the four dead birds discovered on Monday amounts to a 5% decrease in the population. It is broadly equivalent to the loss of 160 tigers or 93 pandas.Before the shootings there were 22 birds on Motutapu Island, one of the conservation department\u2019s predator-free \u201csecurity sites\u201d.The cull of pukeko \u2013 a native swamphen that is found in vast numbers across the country \u2013 was organised because of the damage they cause to the nests and eggs of threatened species. Deerstalkers carried out successful culls on the island in 2012 and 2013.The department has said that hunters had been carefully briefed on how to differentiate between the species, with takah\u0113 about twice the size of pukeko, and flightless. They had also been instructed to only shoot birds on the wing.The guidelines were introduced seven years ago, after one takah\u0113 was mistakenly shot during a pukeko cull on Mana Island, another sanctuary off the Wellington coast.The Department of Conservation website dispels suggestions that takah\u0113 are \u201cjust fat pukeko\u201d but concedes the two species look \u201csimilar\u201d.The department has put an immediate halt to the cull as it investigates both its internal processes and the program with the deerstalkers\u2019 association, which it says is \u201ccooperating fully\u201d with its inquiries.", "tags": ["Endangered species", "Environment", "New Zealand", "Conservation", "Birds", "Wildlife", "Animals", "Asia Pacific", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand hunters apologise over accidental shooting of takah\u0113"},{"date": "2015-09-01T01:01:12Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "\n\n2.01am BST\n02:01\n\nI just caught myself wondering if New Zealand really needs a flag, or if New Zealand even exists at all. I\u2019m in the eye of the koru and it\u2019s time to wrap this up.So, the flag consideration panel has published its shortlist. What now?The public will be asked to rank the four designs in the first binding postal referendum this year, which will be held between 20 November and 11 December.This will determine a preferred alternative.It is statistically likely to be a silver fern design.The second binding postal referendum will be held in March next year. It will ask voters to choose between the fern (come on, let\u2019s be real) and the current flag.If the outcome is the new (fern) flag, it will be adopted six months after the decision is announced.It will be interesting to see which version of events is confirmed.Guardian Australia will cover each stage of the process.In the meantime, a \u201chypnoflag\u201d parody account has already been started on Twitter, and I am thinking about a message from a friend I received about 15 minutes ago, which said, \u201cIt is brave of you to run this live blog even though it should objectively be causing you permanent brain damage\u201d.I AM THE ONE TRUE #HYPNOFLAGThanks for following along.\n\n1.53am BST\n01:53\n\nGuardian writer Oliver Burkeman is one person who has been enthusiastically following the Flag Consideration Panel\u2019s deliberations from the other side of the world.This was his pick. \u201cThis is the one that should win and I\u2019ll be massively outraged for weeks on Twitter if it doesn\u2019t (maybe),\u201d he tweeted before the shortlist was announced.pffft. none of the best ones https://t.co/xGNW9QoM0wIf I've learned one thing today it's that we each carry a unique New Zealand flag design, in our heartsActually, yes! Make the new flag a mirror, like when Time magazine made YOU person of the year\u201cHe seems unusually concerned for someone who has zero connection to the story,\u201d remarks my Guardian Australia colleague Claire Phipps.\n\n1.48am BST\n01:48\n\nBefore I wrap this up, let\u2019s reminisce about the optimism we felt in the process\u2019 earliest stages, when the new New Zealand flag could have been just about anything. Related: New Zealand's new flag: 15 quirky contenders \n\n1.44am BST\n01:44\n\nThe official correspondence from the Flag Consideration Panel is fairly sunny in spite of the outpouring of bile aimed at them on Twitter. They made this nice graphic thanking every New Zealander for their contribution to the process. Is it a Magic Eye? Put your nose to your monitor! Then let us know what you see in the comments!This is how the #nzflag panel thanked every person who submitted one of the 10,292 alternative designs pic.twitter.com/r1W9JUj3PaBut they haven\u2019t publicised much in the way of details about how they reached their decision of the final four, beyond the following metrics:In appealing for alternative flag designs, the panel asked New Zealanders to share what they \u201cstand for\u201d. The findings of that stage of the process are a fascinating insight into Aotearoa (please excuse this text rendering of a word cloud).Large sized words:Medium sized words:Smaller words:\n\n1.25am BST\n01:25\n\nNew Zealanders be like:I made a gif for you @Hypnoflag pic.twitter.com/ebQSH3DSdU\n\n1.24am BST\n01:24\n\nNo take is hotter than that of Guardian Australia\u2019s comment editor, Adam Brereton, and he\u2019s just filed:ah yes, new zealand. the country with a big decision ahead of it: which bad flag design will the rest of the world ignore from now onnew zealand: we must choose a new symbol for our nation, to represent our people rest of the world: hush now adults are talkingthe idea that you just summon a new symbol up out of a committee and suddenly everyone's into it is a bit oddimagine going through all this effort to create a new flag for a country that should have been a state of australia anywayi will do everything in my power to destroy new zealand's \"like Australia, but nice and with better beer\" imagenew zealand: you have made a powerful enemy this daynew zealanders do not @ me unless it's to admit you stuffed up by not being a part of the commonwealth\n\n1.20am BST\n01:20\n\nAs a New Zealand citizen I will be voting in the postal referendum in November or December. My own submission to the open gallery, way back in May, was rejected because it showed a person\u2019s image and/or \u201cis offensive or divisive\u201d.Vote for my NZ flag design, showing Lorde with silver ferns for eyes, rugby ball for a mouth, wearing a Bain sweater pic.twitter.com/V515eexwHLIt was nonetheless subsequently held up by a comedian on national New Zealand television as an example of how stupid New Zealanders can be, which I suppose is fair enough.\"My big fear is, New Zealanders are going to choose the wrong flag\" pic.twitter.com/0qm9k5mKQf\n\n1.13am BST\n01:13\n\nThe New Zealand government thinks this may inform your decision, too.How do you want New Zealand to be represented by arts graduates worldwide? Official images c/o the #nzflag panel pic.twitter.com/a2JEpVwd9X\n\n1.11am BST\n01:11\n\nThis may inform your decision.\n\n1.09am BST\n01:09\n\nFourth option for new NZ flag - second design on the shortlist from Kyle Lockwood @NZStuff pic.twitter.com/D99Bq2dpxgThe designer\u2019s description: The silver fern: A New Zealand icon for over 160 years, worn proudly by many generations. The fern is an element of indigenous flora representing the growth of our nation. The multiple points of the fern leaf represent Aotearoa\u2019s peaceful multicultural society, a single fern spreading upwards represents that we are all one people growing onward into the future. The bright blue represents our clear atmosphere and the Pacific Ocean, over which all New Zealanders, or their ancestors, crossed to get here. The Southern Cross represents our geographic location in the antipodes. It has been used as a navigational aid for centuries and it helped guide early settlers to our islands.This blogger\u2019s take: nuhrghghhgrghhjhgfghhUpdated\nat 1.09am BST\n", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Design"], "title": "New Zealand announces final shortlist for new flag design \u2013 as it unfurled"},{"date": "2015-11-23T23:07:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "It\u2019s a test of the butterfly effect, updated for 2015: can an innocuous and wryly worded tweet, sent from Los Angeles International Airport, spark a \u201cwild goose chase\u201d and breakdown within news media on the other side of the world?The possibility that Taylor Swift might be bound for New Zealand was first flagged in a wry tweet from the American author Maggie Shipstead at LAX.It's like the old saying goes: when you see a Taylor Swift at the airport, you will have a pleasant flight to New Zealand.This corresponded with Swift\u2019s conspicuous absence from the American Music Awards ceremony at the Microsoft Theatre in LA on Sunday, at which she was nominated for six awards (and later won three).New Zealand media and Taylor Swift fans and the individuals intersecting the two raced to follow up Shipstead\u2019s tweet, prompting what Fairfax news website stuff.co.nz described as a \u201cwild goose chase, all over South Auckland\u201d. Related: Los Angeles airport to build special terminal just for celebrities Both stuff.co.nz and the New Zealand Herald quoted Auckland comedian Melanie Bracewell\u2019s tweet that she \u201cjust saw Taylor Swift at the Auckland Airport\u201d on Monday morning which, it later transpired, was a joke.I did this tweet as an experiment to see if it'd make the nz herald website and it worked pic.twitter.com/9PPib0JRauStuff.co.nz amended their story.Someone's mad at ya @meladoodle pic.twitter.com/22LmAS8DPeA string of others followed suit.I saw @TaylorSwift13 doing the tactile maze at the bottom of SkyCity Metro #EDGETaylorSwiftWatchTaylor Swift is driving around Westfield St Lukes trying to find a parkA high school student posted to Facebook that Swift had been spotted at a shipping and marine supplier in an east Auckland suburb for some reason. The Herald\u2019s entertainment writer Chris Schulz followed up with a phone call, which he reported on Tuesday:The nice lady who answered the phone told us there was indeed a single film crew on location but \u201cthat isn\u2019t unusual ... and they\u2019re just finishing up for the day\u201d. She also admitted she wouldn\u2019t know what Taylor Swift looked like if she was standing in front of her.\u201cSo, Taylor Swift, where in the world are you?\u201d concluded Schulz\u2019s story.Despite being in her home town for the annual celebration of her success, the New Zealand Music Awards, known Swift associate Lorde unhelpfully did nothing to fuel or dispel the rumours on social media.On Monday afternoon the Herald reported that \u201cTaylor Swift probably isn\u2019t in New Zealand\u201d.But soap actor Ido Drent then confirmed that he had been on the same flight from LA with Swift, his statement that she was \u201cdefinitely here\u201d replacing Bracewell\u2019s joke tweet as the news media\u2019s most promising lead.Drent was \u201cchanging his son\u2019s nappy on-board flight NZ3 when he claimed he stumbled across the Bad Blood popstar\u201d, reported One News: \u201cYeah, had a good chat to her on the plane outside the lavatory.\u201dOn Tuesday morning the Herald reported that \u201cTaylor Swift is definitely in New Zealand,\u201d verified by her label Universal Music.Guardian Australia can confirm that Swift arrived at Auckland International airport on the NZ3 flight direct from Los Angeles on Saturday 21 November, as speculated, in a party of eight.She did not have a return flight booked, but it seems reasonable to assume that she will fly to Sydney before her show there on Saturday. Reliable sources say she is in New Zealand to shoot the video for her next single from 1989, thought to be Out of the Woods.The Sydney Morning Herald\u2019s Andrew Hornery put a rumour that she would be shooting in the Blue Mountains on Thursday to Universal and was told: \u201cLook I can\u2019t tell you anything. I\u2019m not trying to throw you a curve ball ... and don\u2019t quote me.\u201d3News reporter Hayden Donnell followed up with Shipstead to ask her \u201cwhether it was weird stumbling into the middle of a possibly fake news story in a small country at the bottom of the world\u201d.\u201cShe said it was definitely weird, but the story was real.\u201dThe saga had shades of the Ryan Gosling hunt of 2012, when a possible sighting of The Notebook star on Auckland\u2019s Ponsonby Road sparked a Tumblr page (\u201cHey Girl, I Love New Zealand\u201d) and #NZGoslingHunt to trend nationally.", "tags": ["Taylor Swift", "New Zealand", "Music", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "Culture"], "title": "Taylor Swift is definitely in New Zealand, media in New Zealand determines"},{"date": "2015-11-23T23:07:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "It\u2019s a test of the butterfly effect, updated for 2015: can an innocuous and wryly worded tweet, sent from Los Angeles International Airport, spark a \u201cwild goose chase\u201d and breakdown within news media on the other side of the world?The possibility that Taylor Swift might be bound for New Zealand was first flagged in a wry tweet from the American author Maggie Shipstead at LAX.It's like the old saying goes: when you see a Taylor Swift at the airport, you will have a pleasant flight to New Zealand.This corresponded with Swift\u2019s conspicuous absence from the American Music Awards ceremony at the Microsoft Theatre in LA on Sunday, at which she was nominated for six awards (and later won three).New Zealand media and Taylor Swift fans and the individuals intersecting the two raced to follow up Shipstead\u2019s tweet, prompting what Fairfax news website stuff.co.nz described as a \u201cwild goose chase, all over South Auckland\u201d. Related: Los Angeles airport to build special terminal just for celebrities Both stuff.co.nz and the New Zealand Herald quoted Auckland comedian Melanie Bracewell\u2019s tweet that she \u201cjust saw Taylor Swift at the Auckland Airport\u201d on Monday morning which, it later transpired, was a joke.I did this tweet as an experiment to see if it'd make the nz herald website and it worked pic.twitter.com/9PPib0JRauStuff.co.nz amended their story.Someone's mad at ya @meladoodle pic.twitter.com/22LmAS8DPeA string of others followed suit.I saw @TaylorSwift13 doing the tactile maze at the bottom of SkyCity Metro #EDGETaylorSwiftWatchTaylor Swift is driving around Westfield St Lukes trying to find a parkA high school student posted to Facebook that Swift had been spotted at a shipping and marine supplier in an east Auckland suburb for some reason. The Herald\u2019s entertainment writer Chris Schulz followed up with a phone call, which he reported on Tuesday:The nice lady who answered the phone told us there was indeed a single film crew on location but \u201cthat isn\u2019t unusual ... and they\u2019re just finishing up for the day\u201d. She also admitted she wouldn\u2019t know what Taylor Swift looked like if she was standing in front of her.\u201cSo, Taylor Swift, where in the world are you?\u201d concluded Schulz\u2019s story.Despite being in her home town for the annual celebration of her success, the New Zealand Music Awards, known Swift associate Lorde unhelpfully did nothing to fuel or dispel the rumours on social media.On Monday afternoon the Herald reported that \u201cTaylor Swift probably isn\u2019t in New Zealand\u201d.But soap actor Ido Drent then confirmed that he had been on the same flight from LA with Swift, his statement that she was \u201cdefinitely here\u201d replacing Bracewell\u2019s joke tweet as the news media\u2019s most promising lead.Drent was \u201cchanging his son\u2019s nappy on-board flight NZ3 when he claimed he stumbled across the Bad Blood popstar\u201d, reported One News: \u201cYeah, had a good chat to her on the plane outside the lavatory.\u201dOn Tuesday morning the Herald reported that \u201cTaylor Swift is definitely in New Zealand,\u201d verified by her label Universal Music.Guardian Australia can confirm that Swift arrived at Auckland International airport on the NZ3 flight direct from Los Angeles on Saturday 21 November, as speculated, in a party of eight.She did not have a return flight booked, but it seems reasonable to assume that she will fly to Sydney before her show there on Saturday. Reliable sources say she is in New Zealand to shoot the video for her next single from 1989, thought to be Out of the Woods.The Sydney Morning Herald\u2019s Andrew Hornery put a rumour that she would be shooting in the Blue Mountains on Thursday to Universal and was told: \u201cLook I can\u2019t tell you anything. I\u2019m not trying to throw you a curve ball ... and don\u2019t quote me.\u201d3News reporter Hayden Donnell followed up with Shipstead to ask her \u201cwhether it was weird stumbling into the middle of a possibly fake news story in a small country at the bottom of the world\u201d.\u201cShe said it was definitely weird, but the story was real.\u201dThe saga had shades of the Ryan Gosling hunt of 2012, when a possible sighting of The Notebook star on Auckland\u2019s Ponsonby Road sparked a Tumblr page (\u201cHey Girl, I Love New Zealand\u201d) and #NZGoslingHunt to trend nationally.", "tags": ["Taylor Swift", "New Zealand", "Music", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "Culture"], "title": "Taylor Swift is definitely in New Zealand, media in New Zealand determines"},{"date": "2015-12-15T04:37:51Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand has confirmed its preferred alternative flag after the first referendum resulted in a tight race between two ferns.Silver Fern (Black, White and Blue) was confirmed as the official preferred alternative on Tuesday following the counting of late votes, with a margin of 1.16% over the runner-up Silver Fern (Red, White and Blue). New Zealanders will choose between the winner and the current flag in a second postal referendum next March.Melbourne-based New Zealander Kyle Lockwood\u2019s black, white and blue design came out on top in the preliminary results of the first referendum announced on Friday, beating the red version, also designed by him, by a margin of less than 1%.Professor John Burrowes, the chairman of the government panel overseeing the flag referendum process, said at the time it was \u201ctoo close to call\u201d between the two designs. The winning flag received fewer first-preference votes than Red, White and Blue, but ended up with a higher share of the total through preferential voting.The turnout in the first referendum was 48.78% of the total number of voters enrolled.Four shortlisted designs were announced by the Flag Consideration Panel in September. A fifth design, Red Peak by Aaron Dustin, was added to the shortlist following public pressure, but finished third with only 122,152 first-preference votes.Each of the two Lockwood ferns got more votes than the three other finalists \u2013 Red Peak, Koru by Andrew Fyfe and Alofi Kanter\u2019s Silver Fern (Black and White) \u2013 put together. Related: New Zealand's new flag: final four designs announced Rowan Simpson, who led the campaign to have Red Peak included among the finalists, said he was \u201cdisappointed but not surprised\u201d by the result.\u201cIt would have been great to see Red Peak be the contender, but I\u2019m still proud that we managed to get New Zealanders a real choice in this first vote. \u201cIt\u2019s been inspiring to see a national conversation about identity and how we represent ourselves to each other and on the world stage.\u201dBack from a week overseas to see #RedPeak lost the first #NZFlag referendum. Oh well. It's still flying in my heart. pic.twitter.com/rgrSnoEHGZThe prime minister, John Key, who spearheaded the flag debate as a priority for his third term and threw his support behind Lockwood\u2019s blue design, told reporters on Saturday he was \u201cdelighted\u201d with the preliminary result of the referendum.\u201cIt was my number one choice but I also think we\u2019ll have a real contest now. You\u2019ve got a flag which in a lot of ways is similar to our current flag but also embodies the silver fern.\u201cI\u2019ll be definitely voting for the new flag and I hope people will sit back and consider it.\u201dChris Bishop, an MP with the governing National party, tweeted that the overwhelming preference for Lockwood\u2019s options was a win for \u201cpeople\u201d over the \u201cvexillologists and assorted self-proclaimed experts\u201d that campaigned for Red Peak.So this is the choice. Incumbent vs challenger. Whether you like it or not, the people have spoken #NZflag pic.twitter.com/5rOAWQHou9With the preferred alternative confirmed, the question now is whether to replace the current flag.The result of the final referendum, to be held from 3 to 24 March, will be binding.Those in favour of a change have begun campaigning for Lockwood\u2019s design in earnest. Conservative radio personality Sean Plunket, pictured here with the prime minister, has had a shirt made to show support for Lockwood\u2019s design.Flying the flag with jk at the gallery party pic.twitter.com/kHVe8R3EVW\u201cWe need to aspire to be postcolonial,\u201d he told Fairfax media. \u201cWe need to get that rid of that colonial tramp stamp that is the Union flag.\u201dBut overwhelming support for Lockwood\u2019s designs in the first referendum does not necessarily equate to support for a change in flag, with polling both before and after the results of the first vote suggesting that most New Zealanders are in favour of maintaining the status quo.An unscientific online poll carried out by the New Zealand Herald on Sunday found that 56% of the 7,500 respondents would vote to retain the current flag.A small University of Auckland study, carried out before the results of the first referendum, suggested that wealthy male university graduates and Wellington residents were the only groups in favour of change.The Returned and Services\u2019 Association has been campaigning since June to \u201cfight for our flag\u201d, even encouraging voters to write \u201cI support the current flag\u201d on their ballot papers for the first referendum. (These informal or invalid votes would not have been counted towards the chosen flag.)Had hoped for a new #nzflag, now I'm desperate to save the old one. Ye gods New ZealandFinding out #NZFlag results is like finding out which bridesmaid dress you'll be wearing. There are no good options, only shades of awful.pic.twitter.com/tf2t05DFjTBut Key has warned voters the ballot is likely to be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.\u201cIf we don\u2019t change by the middle of March next year, we\u2019re not changing for 50 or 100 years. Those who say we\u2019ll come back and revisit the process are dreaming.\u201d", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Art and design"], "title": "New Zealand confirms alternative flag ahead of final referendum"},{"date": "2015-11-23T23:07:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "It\u2019s a test of the butterfly effect, updated for 2015: can an innocuous and wryly worded tweet, sent from Los Angeles International Airport, spark a \u201cwild goose chase\u201d and breakdown within news media on the other side of the world?The possibility that Taylor Swift might be bound for New Zealand was first flagged in a wry tweet from the American author Maggie Shipstead at LAX.It's like the old saying goes: when you see a Taylor Swift at the airport, you will have a pleasant flight to New Zealand.This corresponded with Swift\u2019s conspicuous absence from the American Music Awards ceremony at the Microsoft Theatre in LA on Sunday, at which she was nominated for six awards (and later won three).New Zealand media and Taylor Swift fans and the individuals intersecting the two raced to follow up Shipstead\u2019s tweet, prompting what Fairfax news website stuff.co.nz described as a \u201cwild goose chase, all over South Auckland\u201d. Related: Los Angeles airport to build special terminal just for celebrities Both stuff.co.nz and the New Zealand Herald quoted Auckland comedian Melanie Bracewell\u2019s tweet that she \u201cjust saw Taylor Swift at the Auckland Airport\u201d on Monday morning which, it later transpired, was a joke.I did this tweet as an experiment to see if it'd make the nz herald website and it worked pic.twitter.com/9PPib0JRauStuff.co.nz amended their story.Someone's mad at ya @meladoodle pic.twitter.com/22LmAS8DPeA string of others followed suit.I saw @TaylorSwift13 doing the tactile maze at the bottom of SkyCity Metro #EDGETaylorSwiftWatchTaylor Swift is driving around Westfield St Lukes trying to find a parkA high school student posted to Facebook that Swift had been spotted at a shipping and marine supplier in an east Auckland suburb for some reason. The Herald\u2019s entertainment writer Chris Schulz followed up with a phone call, which he reported on Tuesday:The nice lady who answered the phone told us there was indeed a single film crew on location but \u201cthat isn\u2019t unusual ... and they\u2019re just finishing up for the day\u201d. She also admitted she wouldn\u2019t know what Taylor Swift looked like if she was standing in front of her.\u201cSo, Taylor Swift, where in the world are you?\u201d concluded Schulz\u2019s story.Despite being in her home town for the annual celebration of her success, the New Zealand Music Awards, known Swift associate Lorde unhelpfully did nothing to fuel or dispel the rumours on social media.On Monday afternoon the Herald reported that \u201cTaylor Swift probably isn\u2019t in New Zealand\u201d.But soap actor Ido Drent then confirmed that he had been on the same flight from LA with Swift, his statement that she was \u201cdefinitely here\u201d replacing Bracewell\u2019s joke tweet as the news media\u2019s most promising lead.Drent was \u201cchanging his son\u2019s nappy on-board flight NZ3 when he claimed he stumbled across the Bad Blood popstar\u201d, reported One News: \u201cYeah, had a good chat to her on the plane outside the lavatory.\u201dOn Tuesday morning the Herald reported that \u201cTaylor Swift is definitely in New Zealand,\u201d verified by her label Universal Music.Guardian Australia can confirm that Swift arrived at Auckland International airport on the NZ3 flight direct from Los Angeles on Saturday 21 November, as speculated, in a party of eight.She did not have a return flight booked, but it seems reasonable to assume that she will fly to Sydney before her show there on Saturday. Reliable sources say she is in New Zealand to shoot the video for her next single from 1989, thought to be Out of the Woods.The Sydney Morning Herald\u2019s Andrew Hornery put a rumour that she would be shooting in the Blue Mountains on Thursday to Universal and was told: \u201cLook I can\u2019t tell you anything. I\u2019m not trying to throw you a curve ball ... and don\u2019t quote me.\u201d3News reporter Hayden Donnell followed up with Shipstead to ask her \u201cwhether it was weird stumbling into the middle of a possibly fake news story in a small country at the bottom of the world\u201d.\u201cShe said it was definitely weird, but the story was real.\u201dThe saga had shades of the Ryan Gosling hunt of 2012, when a possible sighting of The Notebook star on Auckland\u2019s Ponsonby Road sparked a Tumblr page (\u201cHey Girl, I Love New Zealand\u201d) and #NZGoslingHunt to trend nationally.", "tags": ["Taylor Swift", "New Zealand", "Music", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "Culture"], "title": "Taylor Swift is definitely in New Zealand, media in New Zealand determines"},{"date": "2015-12-15T04:37:51Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand has confirmed its preferred alternative flag after the first referendum resulted in a tight race between two ferns.Silver Fern (Black, White and Blue) was confirmed as the official preferred alternative on Tuesday following the counting of late votes, with a margin of 1.16% over the runner-up Silver Fern (Red, White and Blue). New Zealanders will choose between the winner and the current flag in a second postal referendum next March.Melbourne-based New Zealander Kyle Lockwood\u2019s black, white and blue design came out on top in the preliminary results of the first referendum announced on Friday, beating the red version, also designed by him, by a margin of less than 1%.Professor John Burrowes, the chairman of the government panel overseeing the flag referendum process, said at the time it was \u201ctoo close to call\u201d between the two designs. The winning flag received fewer first-preference votes than Red, White and Blue, but ended up with a higher share of the total through preferential voting.The turnout in the first referendum was 48.78% of the total number of voters enrolled.Four shortlisted designs were announced by the Flag Consideration Panel in September. A fifth design, Red Peak by Aaron Dustin, was added to the shortlist following public pressure, but finished third with only 122,152 first-preference votes.Each of the two Lockwood ferns got more votes than the three other finalists \u2013 Red Peak, Koru by Andrew Fyfe and Alofi Kanter\u2019s Silver Fern (Black and White) \u2013 put together. Related: New Zealand's new flag: final four designs announced Rowan Simpson, who led the campaign to have Red Peak included among the finalists, said he was \u201cdisappointed but not surprised\u201d by the result.\u201cIt would have been great to see Red Peak be the contender, but I\u2019m still proud that we managed to get New Zealanders a real choice in this first vote. \u201cIt\u2019s been inspiring to see a national conversation about identity and how we represent ourselves to each other and on the world stage.\u201dBack from a week overseas to see #RedPeak lost the first #NZFlag referendum. Oh well. It's still flying in my heart. pic.twitter.com/rgrSnoEHGZThe prime minister, John Key, who spearheaded the flag debate as a priority for his third term and threw his support behind Lockwood\u2019s blue design, told reporters on Saturday he was \u201cdelighted\u201d with the preliminary result of the referendum.\u201cIt was my number one choice but I also think we\u2019ll have a real contest now. You\u2019ve got a flag which in a lot of ways is similar to our current flag but also embodies the silver fern.\u201cI\u2019ll be definitely voting for the new flag and I hope people will sit back and consider it.\u201dChris Bishop, an MP with the governing National party, tweeted that the overwhelming preference for Lockwood\u2019s options was a win for \u201cpeople\u201d over the \u201cvexillologists and assorted self-proclaimed experts\u201d that campaigned for Red Peak.So this is the choice. Incumbent vs challenger. Whether you like it or not, the people have spoken #NZflag pic.twitter.com/5rOAWQHou9With the preferred alternative confirmed, the question now is whether to replace the current flag.The result of the final referendum, to be held from 3 to 24 March, will be binding.Those in favour of a change have begun campaigning for Lockwood\u2019s design in earnest. Conservative radio personality Sean Plunket, pictured here with the prime minister, has had a shirt made to show support for Lockwood\u2019s design.Flying the flag with jk at the gallery party pic.twitter.com/kHVe8R3EVW\u201cWe need to aspire to be postcolonial,\u201d he told Fairfax media. \u201cWe need to get that rid of that colonial tramp stamp that is the Union flag.\u201dBut overwhelming support for Lockwood\u2019s designs in the first referendum does not necessarily equate to support for a change in flag, with polling both before and after the results of the first vote suggesting that most New Zealanders are in favour of maintaining the status quo.An unscientific online poll carried out by the New Zealand Herald on Sunday found that 56% of the 7,500 respondents would vote to retain the current flag.A small University of Auckland study, carried out before the results of the first referendum, suggested that wealthy male university graduates and Wellington residents were the only groups in favour of change.The Returned and Services\u2019 Association has been campaigning since June to \u201cfight for our flag\u201d, even encouraging voters to write \u201cI support the current flag\u201d on their ballot papers for the first referendum. (These informal or invalid votes would not have been counted towards the chosen flag.)Had hoped for a new #nzflag, now I'm desperate to save the old one. Ye gods New ZealandFinding out #NZFlag results is like finding out which bridesmaid dress you'll be wearing. There are no good options, only shades of awful.pic.twitter.com/tf2t05DFjTBut Key has warned voters the ballot is likely to be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.\u201cIf we don\u2019t change by the middle of March next year, we\u2019re not changing for 50 or 100 years. Those who say we\u2019ll come back and revisit the process are dreaming.\u201d", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Art and design"], "title": "New Zealand confirms alternative flag ahead of final referendum"},{"date": "2015-11-23T06:23:09Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Bad weather is hampering efforts to recover the three remaining bodies of victims who died in a helicopter crash on Fox Glacier in New Zealand.So far four bodies have been recovered and are in the process of being identified. Related: New Zealand helicopter crash: British and Australian tourists who died named Inspector John Canning, the West Coast area commander, told media at a briefing on Monday he was \u201cforever hopeful\u201d the final three bodies would be recovered but that the crash site was very treacherous.A second recovery bid is planned for Wednesday.\u201cI\u2019m informed the glacier at the site of the crash is moving up to a metre a day. That\u2019s substantial and that\u2019s why we\u2019ve got to take it safety first.\u201dTributes have been paid to the seven victims of the crash, which included four Britons.Katharine Walker, 51, her partner Andrew Virco, 50, and Nigel Charlton, 66, and his wife Cynthia, 70, who is known as Helen, died along with two Australians and the local pilot in Saturday\u2019s tragedy on the Fox Glacier.Mr and Mrs Charlton were on \u201ctheir last big adventure together\u201d their family said, while Ms Walker and Mr Virco were reported to be on a trip to jointly celebrate their 50th birthdays.The family of grandparents-of-three Mr and Mrs Charlton said they had been left \u201cdeeply saddened\u201d by the death of a couple \u201cloved by family and friends near and far\u201d.\u201cThey were very adventurous when it came to travel and this holiday was to be their last big adventure together. None of us were expecting their adventure to continue in the way that it will,\u201d they said in a statement.\u201cWe are grateful that they remain travelling together but heartbroken that their new itinerary started the way that it did.\u201cIn light of all the recent atrocities that we hear of from across the world we are grateful that our grief is something that can be managed with reasoning and understanding. Our hearts go out to all those having to deal with different types of grief to ours.\u201dThe Charltons are believed to have had two sons, Jason and Daniel.Neighbours of retired dentist Mr Charlton and his wife in the village of Dunbridge, near Romsey in Hampshire, spoke of their sadness.Cathie Wood, 71, who knew the couple for 40 years, said: \u201cHe (Mr Charlton) was very generous, very loving. She was a great needlewoman, she loved dressmaking, she loved knitting, she loved the garden and she loved the cottage. They loved singing and they loved travel.\u201cI don\u2019t know why the helicopter had to take off in such bad weather. It\u2019s just terrible what has happened, it\u2019s just unbelievable.\u201dShe said that Mr Charlton was a \u201cbig fan\u201d of trains who had built a signal box in their garden, which backed on to a railway line. He was also a member of Romsey Male Voice choir who previously worked in Totton, a town near Southampton.Ms Walker was head of radiotherapy at Addenbrooke\u2019s Hospital in Cambridge.A spokesman for Cambridge University Hospitals, which runs it, said: \u201cEveryone at the hospital is devastated by the news and our thoughts go out to Kath\u2019s family at this very sad time.\u201cKath was a much respected member of staff who had worked at Addenbrooke\u2019s for 23 years and she led the trust\u2019s radiotherapy services with great professionalism, skill and pride.\u201cWe know many of our staff are going to be hit hard by this tragic news and we will be offering additional support for them.\u201dAs well as the British victims, Sovannmony Leang, 27, and Josephine Gibson, 29, both from New South Wales, Australia, died along with helicopter pilot Mitchell Gameren, 28, from Queenstown, New Zealand.The bodies of four of the victims have now been recovered from the crash site and taken to a temporary mortuary facility nearby for formal identification, which New Zealand Police said may take a number of days.Police said on Monday morning local time, Sunday night GMT, that they were unable to get onto the glacier until the weather clears, with Alpine Cliff Rescue team leader Marius Bron saying working on the ice was \u201clike working on popcorn\u201d.Reports in New Zealand said Mr Gameren was believed to be an experienced flier, who was piloting the helicopter working for Fox Glacier Heliservices, which also trades as Alpine Adventures.In a statement the firm said: \u201cFox Heliservices\u2019 thoughts are with the families of the passengers and pilot. The pilot was a very valued member of our team.\u201d\u201cThe New Zealand Police and Civil Aviation Authority have taken over the investigation.\u201dFox Glacier is the longest on the west coast of the South Island, travelling from the edge of the Mount Cook National Park in the Southern Alps towards the west coast on the Tasman Sea.In September 2010 British web designer Bradley Coker, 24, from Farnborough, Hampshire died in a plane crash near the Fox Glacier, along with eight other people trying skydiving. ", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Plane crashes", "UK news", "Australia news"], "title": "New Zealand helicopter crash recovery delayed by bad weather"},{"date": "2015-11-23T23:07:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "It\u2019s a test of the butterfly effect, updated for 2015: can an innocuous and wryly worded tweet, sent from Los Angeles International Airport, spark a \u201cwild goose chase\u201d and breakdown within news media on the other side of the world?The possibility that Taylor Swift might be bound for New Zealand was first flagged in a wry tweet from the American author Maggie Shipstead at LAX.It's like the old saying goes: when you see a Taylor Swift at the airport, you will have a pleasant flight to New Zealand.This corresponded with Swift\u2019s conspicuous absence from the American Music Awards ceremony at the Microsoft Theatre in LA on Sunday, at which she was nominated for six awards (and later won three).New Zealand media and Taylor Swift fans and the individuals intersecting the two raced to follow up Shipstead\u2019s tweet, prompting what Fairfax news website stuff.co.nz described as a \u201cwild goose chase, all over South Auckland\u201d. Related: Los Angeles airport to build special terminal just for celebrities Both stuff.co.nz and the New Zealand Herald quoted Auckland comedian Melanie Bracewell\u2019s tweet that she \u201cjust saw Taylor Swift at the Auckland Airport\u201d on Monday morning which, it later transpired, was a joke.I did this tweet as an experiment to see if it'd make the nz herald website and it worked pic.twitter.com/9PPib0JRauStuff.co.nz amended their story.Someone's mad at ya @meladoodle pic.twitter.com/22LmAS8DPeA string of others followed suit.I saw @TaylorSwift13 doing the tactile maze at the bottom of SkyCity Metro #EDGETaylorSwiftWatchTaylor Swift is driving around Westfield St Lukes trying to find a parkA high school student posted to Facebook that Swift had been spotted at a shipping and marine supplier in an east Auckland suburb for some reason. The Herald\u2019s entertainment writer Chris Schulz followed up with a phone call, which he reported on Tuesday:The nice lady who answered the phone told us there was indeed a single film crew on location but \u201cthat isn\u2019t unusual ... and they\u2019re just finishing up for the day\u201d. She also admitted she wouldn\u2019t know what Taylor Swift looked like if she was standing in front of her.\u201cSo, Taylor Swift, where in the world are you?\u201d concluded Schulz\u2019s story.Despite being in her home town for the annual celebration of her success, the New Zealand Music Awards, known Swift associate Lorde unhelpfully did nothing to fuel or dispel the rumours on social media.On Monday afternoon the Herald reported that \u201cTaylor Swift probably isn\u2019t in New Zealand\u201d.But soap actor Ido Drent then confirmed that he had been on the same flight from LA with Swift, his statement that she was \u201cdefinitely here\u201d replacing Bracewell\u2019s joke tweet as the news media\u2019s most promising lead.Drent was \u201cchanging his son\u2019s nappy on-board flight NZ3 when he claimed he stumbled across the Bad Blood popstar\u201d, reported One News: \u201cYeah, had a good chat to her on the plane outside the lavatory.\u201dOn Tuesday morning the Herald reported that \u201cTaylor Swift is definitely in New Zealand,\u201d verified by her label Universal Music.Guardian Australia can confirm that Swift arrived at Auckland International airport on the NZ3 flight direct from Los Angeles on Saturday 21 November, as speculated, in a party of eight.She did not have a return flight booked, but it seems reasonable to assume that she will fly to Sydney before her show there on Saturday. Reliable sources say she is in New Zealand to shoot the video for her next single from 1989, thought to be Out of the Woods.The Sydney Morning Herald\u2019s Andrew Hornery put a rumour that she would be shooting in the Blue Mountains on Thursday to Universal and was told: \u201cLook I can\u2019t tell you anything. I\u2019m not trying to throw you a curve ball ... and don\u2019t quote me.\u201d3News reporter Hayden Donnell followed up with Shipstead to ask her \u201cwhether it was weird stumbling into the middle of a possibly fake news story in a small country at the bottom of the world\u201d.\u201cShe said it was definitely weird, but the story was real.\u201dThe saga had shades of the Ryan Gosling hunt of 2012, when a possible sighting of The Notebook star on Auckland\u2019s Ponsonby Road sparked a Tumblr page (\u201cHey Girl, I Love New Zealand\u201d) and #NZGoslingHunt to trend nationally.", "tags": ["Taylor Swift", "New Zealand", "Music", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "Culture"], "title": "Taylor Swift is definitely in New Zealand, media in New Zealand determines"},{"date": "2015-12-15T04:37:51Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand has confirmed its preferred alternative flag after the first referendum resulted in a tight race between two ferns.Silver Fern (Black, White and Blue) was confirmed as the official preferred alternative on Tuesday following the counting of late votes, with a margin of 1.16% over the runner-up Silver Fern (Red, White and Blue). New Zealanders will choose between the winner and the current flag in a second postal referendum next March.Melbourne-based New Zealander Kyle Lockwood\u2019s black, white and blue design came out on top in the preliminary results of the first referendum announced on Friday, beating the red version, also designed by him, by a margin of less than 1%.Professor John Burrowes, the chairman of the government panel overseeing the flag referendum process, said at the time it was \u201ctoo close to call\u201d between the two designs. The winning flag received fewer first-preference votes than Red, White and Blue, but ended up with a higher share of the total through preferential voting.The turnout in the first referendum was 48.78% of the total number of voters enrolled.Four shortlisted designs were announced by the Flag Consideration Panel in September. A fifth design, Red Peak by Aaron Dustin, was added to the shortlist following public pressure, but finished third with only 122,152 first-preference votes.Each of the two Lockwood ferns got more votes than the three other finalists \u2013 Red Peak, Koru by Andrew Fyfe and Alofi Kanter\u2019s Silver Fern (Black and White) \u2013 put together. Related: New Zealand's new flag: final four designs announced Rowan Simpson, who led the campaign to have Red Peak included among the finalists, said he was \u201cdisappointed but not surprised\u201d by the result.\u201cIt would have been great to see Red Peak be the contender, but I\u2019m still proud that we managed to get New Zealanders a real choice in this first vote. \u201cIt\u2019s been inspiring to see a national conversation about identity and how we represent ourselves to each other and on the world stage.\u201dBack from a week overseas to see #RedPeak lost the first #NZFlag referendum. Oh well. It's still flying in my heart. pic.twitter.com/rgrSnoEHGZThe prime minister, John Key, who spearheaded the flag debate as a priority for his third term and threw his support behind Lockwood\u2019s blue design, told reporters on Saturday he was \u201cdelighted\u201d with the preliminary result of the referendum.\u201cIt was my number one choice but I also think we\u2019ll have a real contest now. You\u2019ve got a flag which in a lot of ways is similar to our current flag but also embodies the silver fern.\u201cI\u2019ll be definitely voting for the new flag and I hope people will sit back and consider it.\u201dChris Bishop, an MP with the governing National party, tweeted that the overwhelming preference for Lockwood\u2019s options was a win for \u201cpeople\u201d over the \u201cvexillologists and assorted self-proclaimed experts\u201d that campaigned for Red Peak.So this is the choice. Incumbent vs challenger. Whether you like it or not, the people have spoken #NZflag pic.twitter.com/5rOAWQHou9With the preferred alternative confirmed, the question now is whether to replace the current flag.The result of the final referendum, to be held from 3 to 24 March, will be binding.Those in favour of a change have begun campaigning for Lockwood\u2019s design in earnest. Conservative radio personality Sean Plunket, pictured here with the prime minister, has had a shirt made to show support for Lockwood\u2019s design.Flying the flag with jk at the gallery party pic.twitter.com/kHVe8R3EVW\u201cWe need to aspire to be postcolonial,\u201d he told Fairfax media. \u201cWe need to get that rid of that colonial tramp stamp that is the Union flag.\u201dBut overwhelming support for Lockwood\u2019s designs in the first referendum does not necessarily equate to support for a change in flag, with polling both before and after the results of the first vote suggesting that most New Zealanders are in favour of maintaining the status quo.An unscientific online poll carried out by the New Zealand Herald on Sunday found that 56% of the 7,500 respondents would vote to retain the current flag.A small University of Auckland study, carried out before the results of the first referendum, suggested that wealthy male university graduates and Wellington residents were the only groups in favour of change.The Returned and Services\u2019 Association has been campaigning since June to \u201cfight for our flag\u201d, even encouraging voters to write \u201cI support the current flag\u201d on their ballot papers for the first referendum. (These informal or invalid votes would not have been counted towards the chosen flag.)Had hoped for a new #nzflag, now I'm desperate to save the old one. Ye gods New ZealandFinding out #NZFlag results is like finding out which bridesmaid dress you'll be wearing. There are no good options, only shades of awful.pic.twitter.com/tf2t05DFjTBut Key has warned voters the ballot is likely to be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.\u201cIf we don\u2019t change by the middle of March next year, we\u2019re not changing for 50 or 100 years. Those who say we\u2019ll come back and revisit the process are dreaming.\u201d", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Art and design"], "title": "New Zealand confirms alternative flag ahead of final referendum"},{"date": "2015-11-23T06:23:09Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Bad weather is hampering efforts to recover the three remaining bodies of victims who died in a helicopter crash on Fox Glacier in New Zealand.So far four bodies have been recovered and are in the process of being identified. Related: New Zealand helicopter crash: British and Australian tourists who died named Inspector John Canning, the West Coast area commander, told media at a briefing on Monday he was \u201cforever hopeful\u201d the final three bodies would be recovered but that the crash site was very treacherous.A second recovery bid is planned for Wednesday.\u201cI\u2019m informed the glacier at the site of the crash is moving up to a metre a day. That\u2019s substantial and that\u2019s why we\u2019ve got to take it safety first.\u201dTributes have been paid to the seven victims of the crash, which included four Britons.Katharine Walker, 51, her partner Andrew Virco, 50, and Nigel Charlton, 66, and his wife Cynthia, 70, who is known as Helen, died along with two Australians and the local pilot in Saturday\u2019s tragedy on the Fox Glacier.Mr and Mrs Charlton were on \u201ctheir last big adventure together\u201d their family said, while Ms Walker and Mr Virco were reported to be on a trip to jointly celebrate their 50th birthdays.The family of grandparents-of-three Mr and Mrs Charlton said they had been left \u201cdeeply saddened\u201d by the death of a couple \u201cloved by family and friends near and far\u201d.\u201cThey were very adventurous when it came to travel and this holiday was to be their last big adventure together. None of us were expecting their adventure to continue in the way that it will,\u201d they said in a statement.\u201cWe are grateful that they remain travelling together but heartbroken that their new itinerary started the way that it did.\u201cIn light of all the recent atrocities that we hear of from across the world we are grateful that our grief is something that can be managed with reasoning and understanding. Our hearts go out to all those having to deal with different types of grief to ours.\u201dThe Charltons are believed to have had two sons, Jason and Daniel.Neighbours of retired dentist Mr Charlton and his wife in the village of Dunbridge, near Romsey in Hampshire, spoke of their sadness.Cathie Wood, 71, who knew the couple for 40 years, said: \u201cHe (Mr Charlton) was very generous, very loving. She was a great needlewoman, she loved dressmaking, she loved knitting, she loved the garden and she loved the cottage. They loved singing and they loved travel.\u201cI don\u2019t know why the helicopter had to take off in such bad weather. It\u2019s just terrible what has happened, it\u2019s just unbelievable.\u201dShe said that Mr Charlton was a \u201cbig fan\u201d of trains who had built a signal box in their garden, which backed on to a railway line. He was also a member of Romsey Male Voice choir who previously worked in Totton, a town near Southampton.Ms Walker was head of radiotherapy at Addenbrooke\u2019s Hospital in Cambridge.A spokesman for Cambridge University Hospitals, which runs it, said: \u201cEveryone at the hospital is devastated by the news and our thoughts go out to Kath\u2019s family at this very sad time.\u201cKath was a much respected member of staff who had worked at Addenbrooke\u2019s for 23 years and she led the trust\u2019s radiotherapy services with great professionalism, skill and pride.\u201cWe know many of our staff are going to be hit hard by this tragic news and we will be offering additional support for them.\u201dAs well as the British victims, Sovannmony Leang, 27, and Josephine Gibson, 29, both from New South Wales, Australia, died along with helicopter pilot Mitchell Gameren, 28, from Queenstown, New Zealand.The bodies of four of the victims have now been recovered from the crash site and taken to a temporary mortuary facility nearby for formal identification, which New Zealand Police said may take a number of days.Police said on Monday morning local time, Sunday night GMT, that they were unable to get onto the glacier until the weather clears, with Alpine Cliff Rescue team leader Marius Bron saying working on the ice was \u201clike working on popcorn\u201d.Reports in New Zealand said Mr Gameren was believed to be an experienced flier, who was piloting the helicopter working for Fox Glacier Heliservices, which also trades as Alpine Adventures.In a statement the firm said: \u201cFox Heliservices\u2019 thoughts are with the families of the passengers and pilot. The pilot was a very valued member of our team.\u201d\u201cThe New Zealand Police and Civil Aviation Authority have taken over the investigation.\u201dFox Glacier is the longest on the west coast of the South Island, travelling from the edge of the Mount Cook National Park in the Southern Alps towards the west coast on the Tasman Sea.In September 2010 British web designer Bradley Coker, 24, from Farnborough, Hampshire died in a plane crash near the Fox Glacier, along with eight other people trying skydiving. ", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Plane crashes", "UK news", "Australia news"], "title": "New Zealand helicopter crash recovery delayed by bad weather"},{"date": "2015-11-22T12:31:36Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Colleagues of a British medic who was killed when a helicopter crashed into a glacier in New Zealand have been left devastated by her death, her employer has said. Katharine Walker, 51, the head of radiotherapy at Addenbrooke\u2019s hospital in Cambridge, was one of six people who died when the sightseeing helicopter crashed into a crevasse on the Fox glacier on Saturday morning.Three other British tourists \u2013 Walker\u2019s partner Andrew Virco, 50, Nigel Charlton, 66, and his wife, Cynthia, 70, from Hampshire \u2013 died along with two Australian holidaymakers and the Kiwi pilot. A spokesman for Cambridge University Hospitals, which runs Addenbrooke\u2019s, said: \u201cEveryone at the hospital is devastated by the news and our thoughts go out to Kath\u2019s family at this very sad time. \u201cKath was a much respected member of staff who had worked at Addenbrooke\u2019s for 23 years. We know many of our staff are going to be hit hard by this tragic news and we will be offering additional support for them.\u201d Walker\u2019s brother, Steve Marshall, told the Sunday Times that his sister and Virco were on a \u201ctrip of a lifetime\u201d to celebrate their 50th birthdays, and they tried to take the helicopter trip on Friday but were prevented from doing so by bad weather. He described Walker as a sociable person and devoted mother to her 22-year-old daughter, Rebecca. He said Virco was a \u201cwonderful person\u201d. The Charltons\u2019 family, said in a statement, released through the Foreign Office that the couple were embarked on what was to be \u201ctheir last big adventure\u201d.\u201cOur family is deeply saddened by the tragic news,\u201d they said.\u201cGrandparents to three children, parents to my brother and I and loved by family and friends near and far.\u201cThey were very adventurous when it came to travel and this holiday was to be their last big adventure together.\u201cWe would wish to send our gratitude to the brave teams making the recovery efforts and understand the need to consider their own safety above all else.\u201cWe would also wish to send our condolences to the families of all those lost in this tragic accident.\u201dAs well as the British victims, Sovannmony Leang, 27, and Josephine Gibson, 29, both from New South Wales, Australia, and the helicopter pilot Mitchell Gameren, 28, from Queenstown, New Zealand, all died.Gameren\u2019s younger sister Brooke wrote on Facebook: \u201cI feel like I am in a dream and I\u2019m just waiting for you to text me and tell me you\u2019re fine.\u201cToday we lost a champion. I lost my brother and best mate. I am so blessed to have a brother like you. You have been such a massive role model in my life \u2026 I miss you so much already.\u201dThe bodies of three of the victims have been recovered from the crash site and taken to a temporary mortuary facility nearby for formal identification. It may be Wednesday before the others are recovered because the weather is expected to worsen during Monday and Tuesday. The helicopter crashed at around 11am local time on Saturday. A picture released by police showed the crumpled remains stuck at the bottom of a wall of ice close to the top of the eight-mile (13km) glacier. Reports in New Zealand said Gameren was believed to be an experienced flier. Fox Glacier Heliservices, which organised the flight, said: \u201cFox Heliservices\u2019 thoughts are with the families of the passengers and pilot. The pilot was a very valued member of our team. The New Zealand police and Civil Aviation Authority have taken over the investigation.\u201d ", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Helicopter crashes", "UK news", "World news", "Australia news"], "title": "Tributes paid to Britons killed in New Zealand helicopter crash"},{"date": "2015-11-23T23:07:02Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "It\u2019s a test of the butterfly effect, updated for 2015: can an innocuous and wryly worded tweet, sent from Los Angeles International Airport, spark a \u201cwild goose chase\u201d and breakdown within news media on the other side of the world?The possibility that Taylor Swift might be bound for New Zealand was first flagged in a wry tweet from the American author Maggie Shipstead at LAX.It's like the old saying goes: when you see a Taylor Swift at the airport, you will have a pleasant flight to New Zealand.This corresponded with Swift\u2019s conspicuous absence from the American Music Awards ceremony at the Microsoft Theatre in LA on Sunday, at which she was nominated for six awards (and later won three).New Zealand media and Taylor Swift fans and the individuals intersecting the two raced to follow up Shipstead\u2019s tweet, prompting what Fairfax news website stuff.co.nz described as a \u201cwild goose chase, all over South Auckland\u201d. Related: Los Angeles airport to build special terminal just for celebrities Both stuff.co.nz and the New Zealand Herald quoted Auckland comedian Melanie Bracewell\u2019s tweet that she \u201cjust saw Taylor Swift at the Auckland Airport\u201d on Monday morning which, it later transpired, was a joke.I did this tweet as an experiment to see if it'd make the nz herald website and it worked pic.twitter.com/9PPib0JRauStuff.co.nz amended their story.Someone's mad at ya @meladoodle pic.twitter.com/22LmAS8DPeA string of others followed suit.I saw @TaylorSwift13 doing the tactile maze at the bottom of SkyCity Metro #EDGETaylorSwiftWatchTaylor Swift is driving around Westfield St Lukes trying to find a parkA high school student posted to Facebook that Swift had been spotted at a shipping and marine supplier in an east Auckland suburb for some reason. The Herald\u2019s entertainment writer Chris Schulz followed up with a phone call, which he reported on Tuesday:The nice lady who answered the phone told us there was indeed a single film crew on location but \u201cthat isn\u2019t unusual ... and they\u2019re just finishing up for the day\u201d. She also admitted she wouldn\u2019t know what Taylor Swift looked like if she was standing in front of her.\u201cSo, Taylor Swift, where in the world are you?\u201d concluded Schulz\u2019s story.Despite being in her home town for the annual celebration of her success, the New Zealand Music Awards, known Swift associate Lorde unhelpfully did nothing to fuel or dispel the rumours on social media.On Monday afternoon the Herald reported that \u201cTaylor Swift probably isn\u2019t in New Zealand\u201d.But soap actor Ido Drent then confirmed that he had been on the same flight from LA with Swift, his statement that she was \u201cdefinitely here\u201d replacing Bracewell\u2019s joke tweet as the news media\u2019s most promising lead.Drent was \u201cchanging his son\u2019s nappy on-board flight NZ3 when he claimed he stumbled across the Bad Blood popstar\u201d, reported One News: \u201cYeah, had a good chat to her on the plane outside the lavatory.\u201dOn Tuesday morning the Herald reported that \u201cTaylor Swift is definitely in New Zealand,\u201d verified by her label Universal Music.Guardian Australia can confirm that Swift arrived at Auckland International airport on the NZ3 flight direct from Los Angeles on Saturday 21 November, as speculated, in a party of eight.She did not have a return flight booked, but it seems reasonable to assume that she will fly to Sydney before her show there on Saturday. Reliable sources say she is in New Zealand to shoot the video for her next single from 1989, thought to be Out of the Woods.The Sydney Morning Herald\u2019s Andrew Hornery put a rumour that she would be shooting in the Blue Mountains on Thursday to Universal and was told: \u201cLook I can\u2019t tell you anything. I\u2019m not trying to throw you a curve ball ... and don\u2019t quote me.\u201d3News reporter Hayden Donnell followed up with Shipstead to ask her \u201cwhether it was weird stumbling into the middle of a possibly fake news story in a small country at the bottom of the world\u201d.\u201cShe said it was definitely weird, but the story was real.\u201dThe saga had shades of the Ryan Gosling hunt of 2012, when a possible sighting of The Notebook star on Auckland\u2019s Ponsonby Road sparked a Tumblr page (\u201cHey Girl, I Love New Zealand\u201d) and #NZGoslingHunt to trend nationally.", "tags": ["Taylor Swift", "New Zealand", "Music", "Australia news", "Asia Pacific", "Culture"], "title": "Taylor Swift is definitely in New Zealand, media in New Zealand determines"},{"date": "2015-12-15T04:37:51Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "New Zealand has confirmed its preferred alternative flag after the first referendum resulted in a tight race between two ferns.Silver Fern (Black, White and Blue) was confirmed as the official preferred alternative on Tuesday following the counting of late votes, with a margin of 1.16% over the runner-up Silver Fern (Red, White and Blue). New Zealanders will choose between the winner and the current flag in a second postal referendum next March.Melbourne-based New Zealander Kyle Lockwood\u2019s black, white and blue design came out on top in the preliminary results of the first referendum announced on Friday, beating the red version, also designed by him, by a margin of less than 1%.Professor John Burrowes, the chairman of the government panel overseeing the flag referendum process, said at the time it was \u201ctoo close to call\u201d between the two designs. The winning flag received fewer first-preference votes than Red, White and Blue, but ended up with a higher share of the total through preferential voting.The turnout in the first referendum was 48.78% of the total number of voters enrolled.Four shortlisted designs were announced by the Flag Consideration Panel in September. A fifth design, Red Peak by Aaron Dustin, was added to the shortlist following public pressure, but finished third with only 122,152 first-preference votes.Each of the two Lockwood ferns got more votes than the three other finalists \u2013 Red Peak, Koru by Andrew Fyfe and Alofi Kanter\u2019s Silver Fern (Black and White) \u2013 put together. Related: New Zealand's new flag: final four designs announced Rowan Simpson, who led the campaign to have Red Peak included among the finalists, said he was \u201cdisappointed but not surprised\u201d by the result.\u201cIt would have been great to see Red Peak be the contender, but I\u2019m still proud that we managed to get New Zealanders a real choice in this first vote. \u201cIt\u2019s been inspiring to see a national conversation about identity and how we represent ourselves to each other and on the world stage.\u201dBack from a week overseas to see #RedPeak lost the first #NZFlag referendum. Oh well. It's still flying in my heart. pic.twitter.com/rgrSnoEHGZThe prime minister, John Key, who spearheaded the flag debate as a priority for his third term and threw his support behind Lockwood\u2019s blue design, told reporters on Saturday he was \u201cdelighted\u201d with the preliminary result of the referendum.\u201cIt was my number one choice but I also think we\u2019ll have a real contest now. You\u2019ve got a flag which in a lot of ways is similar to our current flag but also embodies the silver fern.\u201cI\u2019ll be definitely voting for the new flag and I hope people will sit back and consider it.\u201dChris Bishop, an MP with the governing National party, tweeted that the overwhelming preference for Lockwood\u2019s options was a win for \u201cpeople\u201d over the \u201cvexillologists and assorted self-proclaimed experts\u201d that campaigned for Red Peak.So this is the choice. Incumbent vs challenger. Whether you like it or not, the people have spoken #NZflag pic.twitter.com/5rOAWQHou9With the preferred alternative confirmed, the question now is whether to replace the current flag.The result of the final referendum, to be held from 3 to 24 March, will be binding.Those in favour of a change have begun campaigning for Lockwood\u2019s design in earnest. Conservative radio personality Sean Plunket, pictured here with the prime minister, has had a shirt made to show support for Lockwood\u2019s design.Flying the flag with jk at the gallery party pic.twitter.com/kHVe8R3EVW\u201cWe need to aspire to be postcolonial,\u201d he told Fairfax media. \u201cWe need to get that rid of that colonial tramp stamp that is the Union flag.\u201dBut overwhelming support for Lockwood\u2019s designs in the first referendum does not necessarily equate to support for a change in flag, with polling both before and after the results of the first vote suggesting that most New Zealanders are in favour of maintaining the status quo.An unscientific online poll carried out by the New Zealand Herald on Sunday found that 56% of the 7,500 respondents would vote to retain the current flag.A small University of Auckland study, carried out before the results of the first referendum, suggested that wealthy male university graduates and Wellington residents were the only groups in favour of change.The Returned and Services\u2019 Association has been campaigning since June to \u201cfight for our flag\u201d, even encouraging voters to write \u201cI support the current flag\u201d on their ballot papers for the first referendum. (These informal or invalid votes would not have been counted towards the chosen flag.)Had hoped for a new #nzflag, now I'm desperate to save the old one. Ye gods New ZealandFinding out #NZFlag results is like finding out which bridesmaid dress you'll be wearing. There are no good options, only shades of awful.pic.twitter.com/tf2t05DFjTBut Key has warned voters the ballot is likely to be a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity.\u201cIf we don\u2019t change by the middle of March next year, we\u2019re not changing for 50 or 100 years. Those who say we\u2019ll come back and revisit the process are dreaming.\u201d", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Art and design"], "title": "New Zealand confirms alternative flag ahead of final referendum"},{"date": "2015-11-23T06:23:09Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Bad weather is hampering efforts to recover the three remaining bodies of victims who died in a helicopter crash on Fox Glacier in New Zealand.So far four bodies have been recovered and are in the process of being identified. Related: New Zealand helicopter crash: British and Australian tourists who died named Inspector John Canning, the West Coast area commander, told media at a briefing on Monday he was \u201cforever hopeful\u201d the final three bodies would be recovered but that the crash site was very treacherous.A second recovery bid is planned for Wednesday.\u201cI\u2019m informed the glacier at the site of the crash is moving up to a metre a day. That\u2019s substantial and that\u2019s why we\u2019ve got to take it safety first.\u201dTributes have been paid to the seven victims of the crash, which included four Britons.Katharine Walker, 51, her partner Andrew Virco, 50, and Nigel Charlton, 66, and his wife Cynthia, 70, who is known as Helen, died along with two Australians and the local pilot in Saturday\u2019s tragedy on the Fox Glacier.Mr and Mrs Charlton were on \u201ctheir last big adventure together\u201d their family said, while Ms Walker and Mr Virco were reported to be on a trip to jointly celebrate their 50th birthdays.The family of grandparents-of-three Mr and Mrs Charlton said they had been left \u201cdeeply saddened\u201d by the death of a couple \u201cloved by family and friends near and far\u201d.\u201cThey were very adventurous when it came to travel and this holiday was to be their last big adventure together. None of us were expecting their adventure to continue in the way that it will,\u201d they said in a statement.\u201cWe are grateful that they remain travelling together but heartbroken that their new itinerary started the way that it did.\u201cIn light of all the recent atrocities that we hear of from across the world we are grateful that our grief is something that can be managed with reasoning and understanding. Our hearts go out to all those having to deal with different types of grief to ours.\u201dThe Charltons are believed to have had two sons, Jason and Daniel.Neighbours of retired dentist Mr Charlton and his wife in the village of Dunbridge, near Romsey in Hampshire, spoke of their sadness.Cathie Wood, 71, who knew the couple for 40 years, said: \u201cHe (Mr Charlton) was very generous, very loving. She was a great needlewoman, she loved dressmaking, she loved knitting, she loved the garden and she loved the cottage. They loved singing and they loved travel.\u201cI don\u2019t know why the helicopter had to take off in such bad weather. It\u2019s just terrible what has happened, it\u2019s just unbelievable.\u201dShe said that Mr Charlton was a \u201cbig fan\u201d of trains who had built a signal box in their garden, which backed on to a railway line. He was also a member of Romsey Male Voice choir who previously worked in Totton, a town near Southampton.Ms Walker was head of radiotherapy at Addenbrooke\u2019s Hospital in Cambridge.A spokesman for Cambridge University Hospitals, which runs it, said: \u201cEveryone at the hospital is devastated by the news and our thoughts go out to Kath\u2019s family at this very sad time.\u201cKath was a much respected member of staff who had worked at Addenbrooke\u2019s for 23 years and she led the trust\u2019s radiotherapy services with great professionalism, skill and pride.\u201cWe know many of our staff are going to be hit hard by this tragic news and we will be offering additional support for them.\u201dAs well as the British victims, Sovannmony Leang, 27, and Josephine Gibson, 29, both from New South Wales, Australia, died along with helicopter pilot Mitchell Gameren, 28, from Queenstown, New Zealand.The bodies of four of the victims have now been recovered from the crash site and taken to a temporary mortuary facility nearby for formal identification, which New Zealand Police said may take a number of days.Police said on Monday morning local time, Sunday night GMT, that they were unable to get onto the glacier until the weather clears, with Alpine Cliff Rescue team leader Marius Bron saying working on the ice was \u201clike working on popcorn\u201d.Reports in New Zealand said Mr Gameren was believed to be an experienced flier, who was piloting the helicopter working for Fox Glacier Heliservices, which also trades as Alpine Adventures.In a statement the firm said: \u201cFox Heliservices\u2019 thoughts are with the families of the passengers and pilot. The pilot was a very valued member of our team.\u201d\u201cThe New Zealand Police and Civil Aviation Authority have taken over the investigation.\u201dFox Glacier is the longest on the west coast of the South Island, travelling from the edge of the Mount Cook National Park in the Southern Alps towards the west coast on the Tasman Sea.In September 2010 British web designer Bradley Coker, 24, from Farnborough, Hampshire died in a plane crash near the Fox Glacier, along with eight other people trying skydiving. ", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Asia Pacific", "World news", "Plane crashes", "UK news", "Australia news"], "title": "New Zealand helicopter crash recovery delayed by bad weather"},{"date": "2015-11-22T12:31:36Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "Colleagues of a British medic who was killed when a helicopter crashed into a glacier in New Zealand have been left devastated by her death, her employer has said. Katharine Walker, 51, the head of radiotherapy at Addenbrooke\u2019s hospital in Cambridge, was one of six people who died when the sightseeing helicopter crashed into a crevasse on the Fox glacier on Saturday morning.Three other British tourists \u2013 Walker\u2019s partner Andrew Virco, 50, Nigel Charlton, 66, and his wife, Cynthia, 70, from Hampshire \u2013 died along with two Australian holidaymakers and the Kiwi pilot. A spokesman for Cambridge University Hospitals, which runs Addenbrooke\u2019s, said: \u201cEveryone at the hospital is devastated by the news and our thoughts go out to Kath\u2019s family at this very sad time. \u201cKath was a much respected member of staff who had worked at Addenbrooke\u2019s for 23 years. We know many of our staff are going to be hit hard by this tragic news and we will be offering additional support for them.\u201d Walker\u2019s brother, Steve Marshall, told the Sunday Times that his sister and Virco were on a \u201ctrip of a lifetime\u201d to celebrate their 50th birthdays, and they tried to take the helicopter trip on Friday but were prevented from doing so by bad weather. He described Walker as a sociable person and devoted mother to her 22-year-old daughter, Rebecca. He said Virco was a \u201cwonderful person\u201d. The Charltons\u2019 family, said in a statement, released through the Foreign Office that the couple were embarked on what was to be \u201ctheir last big adventure\u201d.\u201cOur family is deeply saddened by the tragic news,\u201d they said.\u201cGrandparents to three children, parents to my brother and I and loved by family and friends near and far.\u201cThey were very adventurous when it came to travel and this holiday was to be their last big adventure together.\u201cWe would wish to send our gratitude to the brave teams making the recovery efforts and understand the need to consider their own safety above all else.\u201cWe would also wish to send our condolences to the families of all those lost in this tragic accident.\u201dAs well as the British victims, Sovannmony Leang, 27, and Josephine Gibson, 29, both from New South Wales, Australia, and the helicopter pilot Mitchell Gameren, 28, from Queenstown, New Zealand, all died.Gameren\u2019s younger sister Brooke wrote on Facebook: \u201cI feel like I am in a dream and I\u2019m just waiting for you to text me and tell me you\u2019re fine.\u201cToday we lost a champion. I lost my brother and best mate. I am so blessed to have a brother like you. You have been such a massive role model in my life \u2026 I miss you so much already.\u201dThe bodies of three of the victims have been recovered from the crash site and taken to a temporary mortuary facility nearby for formal identification. It may be Wednesday before the others are recovered because the weather is expected to worsen during Monday and Tuesday. The helicopter crashed at around 11am local time on Saturday. A picture released by police showed the crumpled remains stuck at the bottom of a wall of ice close to the top of the eight-mile (13km) glacier. Reports in New Zealand said Gameren was believed to be an experienced flier. Fox Glacier Heliservices, which organised the flight, said: \u201cFox Heliservices\u2019 thoughts are with the families of the passengers and pilot. The pilot was a very valued member of our team. The New Zealand police and Civil Aviation Authority have taken over the investigation.\u201d ", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Helicopter crashes", "UK news", "World news", "Australia news"], "title": "Tributes paid to Britons killed in New Zealand helicopter crash"},{"date": "2015-11-09T14:20:13Z", "country": "new%20zealand", "content": "A New Zealand schoolboy who was diagnosed with an aggressive form of cancer in his final year at school has delivered an emotional valedictory speech, a video of which has gone viral.Eighteen-year-old Jake Bailey, a senior monitor at Christchurch Boys\u2019 high school, had prepared a speech for the school ceremony but was told a few weeks before the event that he had cancer. Doctors warned him that intensive chemotherapy meant he would most likely be unable to attend.Bailey, who has Burkitt lymphoma, was given day release from hospital to deliver his speech, according to the New Zealand Herald. \u201cI wrote this before I knew I had cancer, and now I have a whole new spin on it,\u201d he said in his address, which has been watched more than 170,000 times on YouTube.\u201cHere\u2019s the thing: none of us get out of life alive. So be gallant, be great, be gracious and be grateful for the opportunities that you have.\u201dSitting in a hospital wheelchair, he continued: \u201cForget about long-term dreams. Let\u2019s be passionately dedicated to the pursuit of short-term goals. Work with passion and pride on what is in front of us. We don\u2019t know where we might end up or when it might end up.\u201cI don\u2019t know where it goes from here, for any of us \u2013 for me, for you. But I wish you the very best in your journey, and I thank you all for being part of mine.\u201dBailey\u2019s classmates responded with loud applause and a rendition of the school song. Some performed a haka in his honour. . Bailey mouthed \u201cthank you\u201d to his schoolfriends.Nic Hill, the school\u2019s headmaster, said the global response to the speech had overwhelmed him. \u201cSome of the stories have painted a more negative light on his prognosis than his reality. Jake is alive \u2026 it\u2019s going to be very tough, incredibly tough, it will be very intensive treatment. However, the prognosis is good,\u201d Hill told the New Zealand Herald.\u201cJake needs to now look after himself. It\u2019s this thing where he\u2019s facing this amazing challenge. He\u2019s inspiring others, but he really needs to be looking after himself.\u201cThat was the thing about prize-giving as well. He didn\u2019t want to let us down.\u201d", "tags": ["New Zealand", "Cancer", "Asia Pacific", "Society", "World news"], "title": "New Zealand schoolboy's rousing speech after cancer diagnosis goes viral"}]