{"date": "2008-02-08T13:11:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The introduction of sharia law in Ontario, Canada, was effectively recommended by a 2004 report which prompted debate and street protests, both for and against its findings.Family faith-based tribunals had been set up by Catholic and Jewish communities following the passing of the province's Arbitration Act in 1991. The act was an attempt to deal with a backlog of court cases. It enabled groups to use the guiding principles of their faith to help settle disputes over divorce, inheritance and custody.In 2003, the Islamic Institute of Civil Justice said it intended to establish similar tribunals for the 400,000 Muslims who live in Ontario.Irfan Syed, chairman of the Toronto-based Muslim Lawyers Association, said:\"In truly multicultural countries, this is quite common. It's a legitimate way to give religious communities some autonomy within the scope of our law. The two can exist because the Canadian courts have an ultimate supervisory capacity\"During the ensuing outcry, a former attorney general, Marion Boyd, was asked to review how the arbitration act was working and whether it adversely affected vulnerable people, including women, the elderly and people with disabilities.Published in December 2004, her report recommended (pdf) that the \"Arbitration Act should continue to allow disputes to be arbitrated using religious law.\"She, no doubt, realised it would not be possible to allow Christian and Jewish tribunals to continue but ban Muslim ones.Faisal Kutty, writing in the New Catholic Times, supported the report's findings.\"Sharia is not coming to Canada and there will be no sharia courts. Muslims simply wish to use Islamic principles to resolve their disputes within the Canadian legal system\"But plenty of others didn't.Homa Arjomand, an Iranian who organised International Campaign Against Sharia Court in Canada, argued that the recommendations would push back Canadian law by 1,400 years.\"Our lawyers are studying the decisions of several arbitration cases and will bring them to court and expose how women are victimised by male-dominated legal decisions based on 6th-century religion and traditions.\"Another protester Nasrin Ramzanali, said \"If the shariah is used in Canada, I also feel threatened here.\" There was mainstream scepticism that such tribunals were compatible with Canada's Charter of Rights and Freedoms.Nonsense, argued Richard Fidler, who suggested the \"anti-sharia\" campaign \"unfolded against a backdrop of anti-Muslim propaganda related to the Iraq war, the growing threats to Iran, and Israel's ongoing repression of the Palestinians as well as Canada's increasing military involvement in Afghanistan\". Such was the political feeling that the province's premier, Dalton McGuinty, eventually dismissed Boyd's recommendations. He was also forced to ban other religions which had been using faith-based tribunals.", "tags": ["World news", "Religion", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Sharia law in Canada, almost"},{"date": "2008-02-08T13:11:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The introduction of sharia law in Ontario, Canada, was effectively recommended by a 2004 report which prompted debate and street protests, both for and against its findings.Family faith-based tribunals had been set up by Catholic and Jewish communities following the passing of the province's Arbitration Act in 1991. The act was an attempt to deal with a backlog of court cases. It enabled groups to use the guiding principles of their faith to help settle disputes over divorce, inheritance and custody.In 2003, the Islamic Institute of Civil Justice said it intended to establish similar tribunals for the 400,000 Muslims who live in Ontario.Irfan Syed, chairman of the Toronto-based Muslim Lawyers Association, said:\"In truly multicultural countries, this is quite common. It's a legitimate way to give religious communities some autonomy within the scope of our law. The two can exist because the Canadian courts have an ultimate supervisory capacity\"During the ensuing outcry, a former attorney general, Marion Boyd, was asked to review how the arbitration act was working and whether it adversely affected vulnerable people, including women, the elderly and people with disabilities.Published in December 2004, her report recommended (pdf) that the \"Arbitration Act should continue to allow disputes to be arbitrated using religious law.\"She, no doubt, realised it would not be possible to allow Christian and Jewish tribunals to continue but ban Muslim ones.Faisal Kutty, writing in the New Catholic Times, supported the report's findings.\"Sharia is not coming to Canada and there will be no sharia courts. Muslims simply wish to use Islamic principles to resolve their disputes within the Canadian legal system\"But plenty of others didn't.Homa Arjomand, an Iranian who organised International Campaign Against Sharia Court in Canada, argued that the recommendations would push back Canadian law by 1,400 years.\"Our lawyers are studying the decisions of several arbitration cases and will bring them to court and expose how women are victimised by male-dominated legal decisions based on 6th-century religion and traditions.\"Another protester Nasrin Ramzanali, said \"If the shariah is used in Canada, I also feel threatened here.\" There was mainstream scepticism that such tribunals were compatible with Canada's Charter of Rights and Freedoms.Nonsense, argued Richard Fidler, who suggested the \"anti-sharia\" campaign \"unfolded against a backdrop of anti-Muslim propaganda related to the Iraq war, the growing threats to Iran, and Israel's ongoing repression of the Palestinians as well as Canada's increasing military involvement in Afghanistan\". Such was the political feeling that the province's premier, Dalton McGuinty, eventually dismissed Boyd's recommendations. He was also forced to ban other religions which had been using faith-based tribunals.", "tags": ["World news", "Religion", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Sharia law in Canada, almost"},{"date": "2008-03-30T00:00:55Z", "country": "canada", "content": "'Mummy, I've just uncovered a bone that's never been seen before.' My eight-year-old son, who had never handled anything more dangerous than kitchen scissors, was scraping away at the sandstone with awl and scalpel, brushing away loose dirt with a toothbrush. 'I think mine's the femur of a tyrannosaurus,' shouted his 11-year-old brother, working beside him. We were crouching in the sepia dust of Alberta's Red Deer River valley, with the late afternoon sun setting the sagebrush and goldenrod alight and deepening the shadows of the volcanic hills, hot on the trail of a 70-million-year-old death. Well, perhaps not quite 70 million. The excavation site was a mock-up by the Royal Tyrrell Museum, one of the world's leading showcases of dinosaur remains, to give the younger participants in its summer camps a taste of the excitement only a master's degree in palaeontology could otherwise afford.But the rest of our three-day sojourn at the family camp, sleeping in tipis under the prairie stars by night and hunting for dinosaur fossils by day, was the real thing. My boys were hooked as surely as an ornithopod in a tyrannosaurus's claws.The trip had started inauspiciously. The evening before, a freak storm had swept in from the Arctic, sending temperatures plunging and stirring up strong winds that felled the tipis at the campsite near the museum. Volcanic clay's soft, rapidly eroding properties have yielded some of the greatest concentrations of dinosaur remains in the world. But that night the rain ran straight off the hills, turning the valley floor into a sinkhole of mud and rushing brown water. It's not for nothing that this area is known as the 'badlands' - described as 'mauvais terroir \u00e0 traverser' by the early French missionaries.The camp organisers were still trying to restore the ungainly canvas sleeping quarters ahead of our arrival that afternoon when the heavens opened again, and once more the clay turned into mud several inches thick. As we slid and squelched along the footpath to the camp, our trainers turned into three-inch platform shoes with an unshakeable mixture of mud and prairie grass. Dragging such wattle-and-daub weights around added to the feeling of being on another planet. But if the camp 'counsellors' were feeling the strain, you would never have known it from their antics around the campfire that night as we were inducted into the North American camp culture of aerobic singalongs. Even my normally self-conscious 11-year-old joined in, concentrating hard on remembering the tongue-twisting lyrics for reprisal in his London playground in September.That same concentration was in evidence the next day as we were handed tweezers and magnifying glasses and asked to sort through trayfuls of micro-fossils. What looked to be rubble turned out to contain the shells of pre-Cambrian clams, scales and vertebrae from 100-million-year-old fish, and teeth, bits of bone and cartilage from various prehistoric creatures. Craig, palaeontologist-cum-counsellor, walked around the room responding to the hands jabbing the air. 'You see this shiny, flat exterior and the Aero bar-like interior,' he said to one child. 'What you've got in your hand, my friend, is a piece of dinosaur bone.' The micro-fossils were the bounty from just a few shovelfuls of rubble skimmed from the surface at Dinosaur Provincial Park, a Unesco heritage site that claims to have yielded the world's highest number of large, mostly complete, dinosaur skeletons. The pickings here are so rich that scientists have left undisturbed bone beds that could contain the remains of thousands more dinosaurs. Specimens excavated in 1967 are still in their mummy-like 'jackets' awaiting examination. The Red Deer River valley has been a famous dinosaur graveyard since the turn of last century, when a curator at the American Museum of Natural History in New York heard a man in a cowboy hat laughing uproariously as he viewed the museum's celebrated dinosaur exhibits. Puzzled, the curator asked what was so funny. The man replied: 'You putting these in a museum! My cows are tripping over bones bigger than this all the time.'A $10 wager was laid, and the curator dispatched his champion fossil-hunter, one Barnum Brown, to the valley to investigate. Brown, known as Mr Bones, returned with news of untold fossil riches, and the $10 was well spent. Brown's reconnaissance mission set off an espionage-filled five years known as the Great Canadian Dinosaur Rush, as buccaneering bone-hunters raced to unearth the prehistoric bounty. At a single excavation site Brown unearthed nine complete skeletons of Albertosaurus, a smaller but more agile relative of T.Rex. Once the American and Canadian museums had had their fill, the British Museum and the Natural History Museum hired the bone-hunters, and some of their finest specimens date from this period. It requires a child's imagination to picture the Red Deer River Valley as the subtropical swampland it was 70 million years ago, before the Rocky Mountains erupted and the Ice Age descended, putting paid to the dinosaurs. It requires far less imagination to picture what this area was like when Blackfoot Indians roamed the plains. The Blackfoot called the dinosaur fossils 'grandfather buffalo bones', and as a burial ground the badlands were regarded as sacred territory. The bison that they hunted in their millions are long gone, but some of the other prairie creatures the Blackfoot once shared the plains with are still around. As I left the outhouse just after dawn on the first day, I saw a mother mule deer and her two fawns picking their way through the prairie grass 100m away. We watched each other for half a minute before they all took flight, their hind legs working in unison like an impala's. It was after we left the museum, heading out of the steep ravines of the badlands toward the rolling prairies, that we saw the biggest natural attraction - a stone forest of 10 towering sandstone pillars topped with mushroom-like slabs of harder rock. They are known as Hoodoos, and the Blackfoot thought they were homes of the spirits. As we clambered among the pillars in their glacier-like setting of crevasses and hidey-holes, it really felt as if we were in a landscape built for giants.Trained now to look for traces of prehistoric life among the rock formations, I bent to examine a faint imprint in the surface of one hill, wondering whether it was evidence of a Cretaceous-era relative of the stingray. But as I looked up to see my youngest poke her head out from one of the hidey-holes, I decided it was more likely the tread of an Adidas trainersaurus. It was reassuring to think we could leave some imprint of our passing on this timeless landscape, after all.A three-night stay at the Badlands Science Camp starts from $230 for adults and $195 for children (5-14 years) and includes activities, camping equipment and meals. More information at tyrrellmuseum.com. Canadian Affair (020 7616 9999; canadianaffair.com) has flights from Gatwick, Glasgow and Manchester to Edmonton from \u00a3198 return, with discounts for children up to 12. More details on the region at travelalberta.com.Isle of WightThe remains of more than 20 dinosaur species have been found here, and fossil-hunting trips are held regularly in the summer. A week self-catering at Gotten Manor (01983 551368; gottenmanor.co.uk) for a family of four starts at \u00a3550. South DakotaJoin an expedition this summer to excavate 26,000-year-old mammoth bones in South Dakota in the US. Run by Earthwatch (earthwatch.org), the trip lasts 15 days and the \u00a3895 price per person includes shared accommodation and most meals but not flights.ColoradoThe Dinosaur Highway contains impressive Jurassic remains, including footprints and bones, and is a 10-hour drive between Colorado and Utah. Trailfinders (0845 050 5871; trailfinders.com) can arrange fly-drive holidays from \u00a3489. SpainThe Austurian coast contains Spain's best collection of dinosaur remains, many of which remain visible in the cliffs around Quintueles and the surrounding area. Casas Cantabricas (01223 328721; casas.co.uk) charges from \u00a3490 a week for the two-bedroom Casa Belen in the heart of the region.", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Family holidays", "Camping holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Terry Slavin takes her children to a family dinosaur camp in Canada"},{"date": "2008-02-08T13:11:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The introduction of sharia law in Ontario, Canada, was effectively recommended by a 2004 report which prompted debate and street protests, both for and against its findings.Family faith-based tribunals had been set up by Catholic and Jewish communities following the passing of the province's Arbitration Act in 1991. The act was an attempt to deal with a backlog of court cases. It enabled groups to use the guiding principles of their faith to help settle disputes over divorce, inheritance and custody.In 2003, the Islamic Institute of Civil Justice said it intended to establish similar tribunals for the 400,000 Muslims who live in Ontario.Irfan Syed, chairman of the Toronto-based Muslim Lawyers Association, said:\"In truly multicultural countries, this is quite common. It's a legitimate way to give religious communities some autonomy within the scope of our law. The two can exist because the Canadian courts have an ultimate supervisory capacity\"During the ensuing outcry, a former attorney general, Marion Boyd, was asked to review how the arbitration act was working and whether it adversely affected vulnerable people, including women, the elderly and people with disabilities.Published in December 2004, her report recommended (pdf) that the \"Arbitration Act should continue to allow disputes to be arbitrated using religious law.\"She, no doubt, realised it would not be possible to allow Christian and Jewish tribunals to continue but ban Muslim ones.Faisal Kutty, writing in the New Catholic Times, supported the report's findings.\"Sharia is not coming to Canada and there will be no sharia courts. Muslims simply wish to use Islamic principles to resolve their disputes within the Canadian legal system\"But plenty of others didn't.Homa Arjomand, an Iranian who organised International Campaign Against Sharia Court in Canada, argued that the recommendations would push back Canadian law by 1,400 years.\"Our lawyers are studying the decisions of several arbitration cases and will bring them to court and expose how women are victimised by male-dominated legal decisions based on 6th-century religion and traditions.\"Another protester Nasrin Ramzanali, said \"If the shariah is used in Canada, I also feel threatened here.\" There was mainstream scepticism that such tribunals were compatible with Canada's Charter of Rights and Freedoms.Nonsense, argued Richard Fidler, who suggested the \"anti-sharia\" campaign \"unfolded against a backdrop of anti-Muslim propaganda related to the Iraq war, the growing threats to Iran, and Israel's ongoing repression of the Palestinians as well as Canada's increasing military involvement in Afghanistan\". Such was the political feeling that the province's premier, Dalton McGuinty, eventually dismissed Boyd's recommendations. He was also forced to ban other religions which had been using faith-based tribunals.", "tags": ["World news", "Religion", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Sharia law in Canada, almost"},{"date": "2008-03-30T00:00:55Z", "country": "canada", "content": "'Mummy, I've just uncovered a bone that's never been seen before.' My eight-year-old son, who had never handled anything more dangerous than kitchen scissors, was scraping away at the sandstone with awl and scalpel, brushing away loose dirt with a toothbrush. 'I think mine's the femur of a tyrannosaurus,' shouted his 11-year-old brother, working beside him. We were crouching in the sepia dust of Alberta's Red Deer River valley, with the late afternoon sun setting the sagebrush and goldenrod alight and deepening the shadows of the volcanic hills, hot on the trail of a 70-million-year-old death. Well, perhaps not quite 70 million. The excavation site was a mock-up by the Royal Tyrrell Museum, one of the world's leading showcases of dinosaur remains, to give the younger participants in its summer camps a taste of the excitement only a master's degree in palaeontology could otherwise afford.But the rest of our three-day sojourn at the family camp, sleeping in tipis under the prairie stars by night and hunting for dinosaur fossils by day, was the real thing. My boys were hooked as surely as an ornithopod in a tyrannosaurus's claws.The trip had started inauspiciously. The evening before, a freak storm had swept in from the Arctic, sending temperatures plunging and stirring up strong winds that felled the tipis at the campsite near the museum. Volcanic clay's soft, rapidly eroding properties have yielded some of the greatest concentrations of dinosaur remains in the world. But that night the rain ran straight off the hills, turning the valley floor into a sinkhole of mud and rushing brown water. It's not for nothing that this area is known as the 'badlands' - described as 'mauvais terroir \u00e0 traverser' by the early French missionaries.The camp organisers were still trying to restore the ungainly canvas sleeping quarters ahead of our arrival that afternoon when the heavens opened again, and once more the clay turned into mud several inches thick. As we slid and squelched along the footpath to the camp, our trainers turned into three-inch platform shoes with an unshakeable mixture of mud and prairie grass. Dragging such wattle-and-daub weights around added to the feeling of being on another planet. But if the camp 'counsellors' were feeling the strain, you would never have known it from their antics around the campfire that night as we were inducted into the North American camp culture of aerobic singalongs. Even my normally self-conscious 11-year-old joined in, concentrating hard on remembering the tongue-twisting lyrics for reprisal in his London playground in September.That same concentration was in evidence the next day as we were handed tweezers and magnifying glasses and asked to sort through trayfuls of micro-fossils. What looked to be rubble turned out to contain the shells of pre-Cambrian clams, scales and vertebrae from 100-million-year-old fish, and teeth, bits of bone and cartilage from various prehistoric creatures. Craig, palaeontologist-cum-counsellor, walked around the room responding to the hands jabbing the air. 'You see this shiny, flat exterior and the Aero bar-like interior,' he said to one child. 'What you've got in your hand, my friend, is a piece of dinosaur bone.' The micro-fossils were the bounty from just a few shovelfuls of rubble skimmed from the surface at Dinosaur Provincial Park, a Unesco heritage site that claims to have yielded the world's highest number of large, mostly complete, dinosaur skeletons. The pickings here are so rich that scientists have left undisturbed bone beds that could contain the remains of thousands more dinosaurs. Specimens excavated in 1967 are still in their mummy-like 'jackets' awaiting examination. The Red Deer River valley has been a famous dinosaur graveyard since the turn of last century, when a curator at the American Museum of Natural History in New York heard a man in a cowboy hat laughing uproariously as he viewed the museum's celebrated dinosaur exhibits. Puzzled, the curator asked what was so funny. The man replied: 'You putting these in a museum! My cows are tripping over bones bigger than this all the time.'A $10 wager was laid, and the curator dispatched his champion fossil-hunter, one Barnum Brown, to the valley to investigate. Brown, known as Mr Bones, returned with news of untold fossil riches, and the $10 was well spent. Brown's reconnaissance mission set off an espionage-filled five years known as the Great Canadian Dinosaur Rush, as buccaneering bone-hunters raced to unearth the prehistoric bounty. At a single excavation site Brown unearthed nine complete skeletons of Albertosaurus, a smaller but more agile relative of T.Rex. Once the American and Canadian museums had had their fill, the British Museum and the Natural History Museum hired the bone-hunters, and some of their finest specimens date from this period. It requires a child's imagination to picture the Red Deer River Valley as the subtropical swampland it was 70 million years ago, before the Rocky Mountains erupted and the Ice Age descended, putting paid to the dinosaurs. It requires far less imagination to picture what this area was like when Blackfoot Indians roamed the plains. The Blackfoot called the dinosaur fossils 'grandfather buffalo bones', and as a burial ground the badlands were regarded as sacred territory. The bison that they hunted in their millions are long gone, but some of the other prairie creatures the Blackfoot once shared the plains with are still around. As I left the outhouse just after dawn on the first day, I saw a mother mule deer and her two fawns picking their way through the prairie grass 100m away. We watched each other for half a minute before they all took flight, their hind legs working in unison like an impala's. It was after we left the museum, heading out of the steep ravines of the badlands toward the rolling prairies, that we saw the biggest natural attraction - a stone forest of 10 towering sandstone pillars topped with mushroom-like slabs of harder rock. They are known as Hoodoos, and the Blackfoot thought they were homes of the spirits. As we clambered among the pillars in their glacier-like setting of crevasses and hidey-holes, it really felt as if we were in a landscape built for giants.Trained now to look for traces of prehistoric life among the rock formations, I bent to examine a faint imprint in the surface of one hill, wondering whether it was evidence of a Cretaceous-era relative of the stingray. But as I looked up to see my youngest poke her head out from one of the hidey-holes, I decided it was more likely the tread of an Adidas trainersaurus. It was reassuring to think we could leave some imprint of our passing on this timeless landscape, after all.A three-night stay at the Badlands Science Camp starts from $230 for adults and $195 for children (5-14 years) and includes activities, camping equipment and meals. More information at tyrrellmuseum.com. Canadian Affair (020 7616 9999; canadianaffair.com) has flights from Gatwick, Glasgow and Manchester to Edmonton from \u00a3198 return, with discounts for children up to 12. More details on the region at travelalberta.com.Isle of WightThe remains of more than 20 dinosaur species have been found here, and fossil-hunting trips are held regularly in the summer. A week self-catering at Gotten Manor (01983 551368; gottenmanor.co.uk) for a family of four starts at \u00a3550. South DakotaJoin an expedition this summer to excavate 26,000-year-old mammoth bones in South Dakota in the US. Run by Earthwatch (earthwatch.org), the trip lasts 15 days and the \u00a3895 price per person includes shared accommodation and most meals but not flights.ColoradoThe Dinosaur Highway contains impressive Jurassic remains, including footprints and bones, and is a 10-hour drive between Colorado and Utah. Trailfinders (0845 050 5871; trailfinders.com) can arrange fly-drive holidays from \u00a3489. SpainThe Austurian coast contains Spain's best collection of dinosaur remains, many of which remain visible in the cliffs around Quintueles and the surrounding area. Casas Cantabricas (01223 328721; casas.co.uk) charges from \u00a3490 a week for the two-bedroom Casa Belen in the heart of the region.", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Family holidays", "Camping holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Terry Slavin takes her children to a family dinosaur camp in Canada"},{"date": "2008-03-09T00:03:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "FranceFresh snow and low temperatures have improved conditions, though strong winds have left some runs exposed. Bar\u00e8ges-La Mongie saw 40cm of snow, while Cauterets and Font Romeu in the French Pyrenees had 50cm. Further snowfalls are expected.AustriaWinter wonderland conditions returned after bumper snowfalls and freezing temperatures, with improvements particularly obvious on lower slopes. Bad Gastein, Axamer Lizum and Kaprun are among resorts with good powder. More snow is forecast.SwitzerlandHeavy snowfall has transformed some resorts into powder paradises, including Gstaad, Wengen, Engelberg and Grindelwald. Around half a metre of fresh snowfall is forecast for the beginning of this week.ItalySome resorts report fresh snow, while others have hard-packed pistes. Alagna is waiting for fresh falls after nearly a month without snow, but Canazei and Selva Gardena are enjoying powder conditions. Over 20cm of fresh snow is expected this weekend.United StatesWarm weather has brought spring-like conditions to Vermont and California, particularly Squaw Valley. Elsewhere, resorts in states such as Utah and Colorado have seen fresh snowfalls and are now enjoying excellent conditions. Big Sky in Montana has had constant snowfall providing good powder skiing. Light snowfalls and sunny weather are predicted this week.CanadaConsistent snowfalls in eastern Canadian resorts have left soft powder. Conditions are good in Blue Mountain, Tremblant and Big White. Up to half a metre of snow is expected at many resorts in the east, with light snow and sunny spells elsewhere.\u00b7  Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "Italy holidays", "France holidays", "Austria holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "United States holidays", "Canada holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow  report"},{"date": "2008-02-08T13:11:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The introduction of sharia law in Ontario, Canada, was effectively recommended by a 2004 report which prompted debate and street protests, both for and against its findings.Family faith-based tribunals had been set up by Catholic and Jewish communities following the passing of the province's Arbitration Act in 1991. The act was an attempt to deal with a backlog of court cases. It enabled groups to use the guiding principles of their faith to help settle disputes over divorce, inheritance and custody.In 2003, the Islamic Institute of Civil Justice said it intended to establish similar tribunals for the 400,000 Muslims who live in Ontario.Irfan Syed, chairman of the Toronto-based Muslim Lawyers Association, said:\"In truly multicultural countries, this is quite common. It's a legitimate way to give religious communities some autonomy within the scope of our law. The two can exist because the Canadian courts have an ultimate supervisory capacity\"During the ensuing outcry, a former attorney general, Marion Boyd, was asked to review how the arbitration act was working and whether it adversely affected vulnerable people, including women, the elderly and people with disabilities.Published in December 2004, her report recommended (pdf) that the \"Arbitration Act should continue to allow disputes to be arbitrated using religious law.\"She, no doubt, realised it would not be possible to allow Christian and Jewish tribunals to continue but ban Muslim ones.Faisal Kutty, writing in the New Catholic Times, supported the report's findings.\"Sharia is not coming to Canada and there will be no sharia courts. Muslims simply wish to use Islamic principles to resolve their disputes within the Canadian legal system\"But plenty of others didn't.Homa Arjomand, an Iranian who organised International Campaign Against Sharia Court in Canada, argued that the recommendations would push back Canadian law by 1,400 years.\"Our lawyers are studying the decisions of several arbitration cases and will bring them to court and expose how women are victimised by male-dominated legal decisions based on 6th-century religion and traditions.\"Another protester Nasrin Ramzanali, said \"If the shariah is used in Canada, I also feel threatened here.\" There was mainstream scepticism that such tribunals were compatible with Canada's Charter of Rights and Freedoms.Nonsense, argued Richard Fidler, who suggested the \"anti-sharia\" campaign \"unfolded against a backdrop of anti-Muslim propaganda related to the Iraq war, the growing threats to Iran, and Israel's ongoing repression of the Palestinians as well as Canada's increasing military involvement in Afghanistan\". Such was the political feeling that the province's premier, Dalton McGuinty, eventually dismissed Boyd's recommendations. He was also forced to ban other religions which had been using faith-based tribunals.", "tags": ["World news", "Religion", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Sharia law in Canada, almost"},{"date": "2008-03-30T00:00:55Z", "country": "canada", "content": "'Mummy, I've just uncovered a bone that's never been seen before.' My eight-year-old son, who had never handled anything more dangerous than kitchen scissors, was scraping away at the sandstone with awl and scalpel, brushing away loose dirt with a toothbrush. 'I think mine's the femur of a tyrannosaurus,' shouted his 11-year-old brother, working beside him. We were crouching in the sepia dust of Alberta's Red Deer River valley, with the late afternoon sun setting the sagebrush and goldenrod alight and deepening the shadows of the volcanic hills, hot on the trail of a 70-million-year-old death. Well, perhaps not quite 70 million. The excavation site was a mock-up by the Royal Tyrrell Museum, one of the world's leading showcases of dinosaur remains, to give the younger participants in its summer camps a taste of the excitement only a master's degree in palaeontology could otherwise afford.But the rest of our three-day sojourn at the family camp, sleeping in tipis under the prairie stars by night and hunting for dinosaur fossils by day, was the real thing. My boys were hooked as surely as an ornithopod in a tyrannosaurus's claws.The trip had started inauspiciously. The evening before, a freak storm had swept in from the Arctic, sending temperatures plunging and stirring up strong winds that felled the tipis at the campsite near the museum. Volcanic clay's soft, rapidly eroding properties have yielded some of the greatest concentrations of dinosaur remains in the world. But that night the rain ran straight off the hills, turning the valley floor into a sinkhole of mud and rushing brown water. It's not for nothing that this area is known as the 'badlands' - described as 'mauvais terroir \u00e0 traverser' by the early French missionaries.The camp organisers were still trying to restore the ungainly canvas sleeping quarters ahead of our arrival that afternoon when the heavens opened again, and once more the clay turned into mud several inches thick. As we slid and squelched along the footpath to the camp, our trainers turned into three-inch platform shoes with an unshakeable mixture of mud and prairie grass. Dragging such wattle-and-daub weights around added to the feeling of being on another planet. But if the camp 'counsellors' were feeling the strain, you would never have known it from their antics around the campfire that night as we were inducted into the North American camp culture of aerobic singalongs. Even my normally self-conscious 11-year-old joined in, concentrating hard on remembering the tongue-twisting lyrics for reprisal in his London playground in September.That same concentration was in evidence the next day as we were handed tweezers and magnifying glasses and asked to sort through trayfuls of micro-fossils. What looked to be rubble turned out to contain the shells of pre-Cambrian clams, scales and vertebrae from 100-million-year-old fish, and teeth, bits of bone and cartilage from various prehistoric creatures. Craig, palaeontologist-cum-counsellor, walked around the room responding to the hands jabbing the air. 'You see this shiny, flat exterior and the Aero bar-like interior,' he said to one child. 'What you've got in your hand, my friend, is a piece of dinosaur bone.' The micro-fossils were the bounty from just a few shovelfuls of rubble skimmed from the surface at Dinosaur Provincial Park, a Unesco heritage site that claims to have yielded the world's highest number of large, mostly complete, dinosaur skeletons. The pickings here are so rich that scientists have left undisturbed bone beds that could contain the remains of thousands more dinosaurs. Specimens excavated in 1967 are still in their mummy-like 'jackets' awaiting examination. The Red Deer River valley has been a famous dinosaur graveyard since the turn of last century, when a curator at the American Museum of Natural History in New York heard a man in a cowboy hat laughing uproariously as he viewed the museum's celebrated dinosaur exhibits. Puzzled, the curator asked what was so funny. The man replied: 'You putting these in a museum! My cows are tripping over bones bigger than this all the time.'A $10 wager was laid, and the curator dispatched his champion fossil-hunter, one Barnum Brown, to the valley to investigate. Brown, known as Mr Bones, returned with news of untold fossil riches, and the $10 was well spent. Brown's reconnaissance mission set off an espionage-filled five years known as the Great Canadian Dinosaur Rush, as buccaneering bone-hunters raced to unearth the prehistoric bounty. At a single excavation site Brown unearthed nine complete skeletons of Albertosaurus, a smaller but more agile relative of T.Rex. Once the American and Canadian museums had had their fill, the British Museum and the Natural History Museum hired the bone-hunters, and some of their finest specimens date from this period. It requires a child's imagination to picture the Red Deer River Valley as the subtropical swampland it was 70 million years ago, before the Rocky Mountains erupted and the Ice Age descended, putting paid to the dinosaurs. It requires far less imagination to picture what this area was like when Blackfoot Indians roamed the plains. The Blackfoot called the dinosaur fossils 'grandfather buffalo bones', and as a burial ground the badlands were regarded as sacred territory. The bison that they hunted in their millions are long gone, but some of the other prairie creatures the Blackfoot once shared the plains with are still around. As I left the outhouse just after dawn on the first day, I saw a mother mule deer and her two fawns picking their way through the prairie grass 100m away. We watched each other for half a minute before they all took flight, their hind legs working in unison like an impala's. It was after we left the museum, heading out of the steep ravines of the badlands toward the rolling prairies, that we saw the biggest natural attraction - a stone forest of 10 towering sandstone pillars topped with mushroom-like slabs of harder rock. They are known as Hoodoos, and the Blackfoot thought they were homes of the spirits. As we clambered among the pillars in their glacier-like setting of crevasses and hidey-holes, it really felt as if we were in a landscape built for giants.Trained now to look for traces of prehistoric life among the rock formations, I bent to examine a faint imprint in the surface of one hill, wondering whether it was evidence of a Cretaceous-era relative of the stingray. But as I looked up to see my youngest poke her head out from one of the hidey-holes, I decided it was more likely the tread of an Adidas trainersaurus. It was reassuring to think we could leave some imprint of our passing on this timeless landscape, after all.A three-night stay at the Badlands Science Camp starts from $230 for adults and $195 for children (5-14 years) and includes activities, camping equipment and meals. More information at tyrrellmuseum.com. Canadian Affair (020 7616 9999; canadianaffair.com) has flights from Gatwick, Glasgow and Manchester to Edmonton from \u00a3198 return, with discounts for children up to 12. More details on the region at travelalberta.com.Isle of WightThe remains of more than 20 dinosaur species have been found here, and fossil-hunting trips are held regularly in the summer. A week self-catering at Gotten Manor (01983 551368; gottenmanor.co.uk) for a family of four starts at \u00a3550. South DakotaJoin an expedition this summer to excavate 26,000-year-old mammoth bones in South Dakota in the US. Run by Earthwatch (earthwatch.org), the trip lasts 15 days and the \u00a3895 price per person includes shared accommodation and most meals but not flights.ColoradoThe Dinosaur Highway contains impressive Jurassic remains, including footprints and bones, and is a 10-hour drive between Colorado and Utah. Trailfinders (0845 050 5871; trailfinders.com) can arrange fly-drive holidays from \u00a3489. SpainThe Austurian coast contains Spain's best collection of dinosaur remains, many of which remain visible in the cliffs around Quintueles and the surrounding area. Casas Cantabricas (01223 328721; casas.co.uk) charges from \u00a3490 a week for the two-bedroom Casa Belen in the heart of the region.", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Family holidays", "Camping holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Terry Slavin takes her children to a family dinosaur camp in Canada"},{"date": "2008-03-09T00:03:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "FranceFresh snow and low temperatures have improved conditions, though strong winds have left some runs exposed. Bar\u00e8ges-La Mongie saw 40cm of snow, while Cauterets and Font Romeu in the French Pyrenees had 50cm. Further snowfalls are expected.AustriaWinter wonderland conditions returned after bumper snowfalls and freezing temperatures, with improvements particularly obvious on lower slopes. Bad Gastein, Axamer Lizum and Kaprun are among resorts with good powder. More snow is forecast.SwitzerlandHeavy snowfall has transformed some resorts into powder paradises, including Gstaad, Wengen, Engelberg and Grindelwald. Around half a metre of fresh snowfall is forecast for the beginning of this week.ItalySome resorts report fresh snow, while others have hard-packed pistes. Alagna is waiting for fresh falls after nearly a month without snow, but Canazei and Selva Gardena are enjoying powder conditions. Over 20cm of fresh snow is expected this weekend.United StatesWarm weather has brought spring-like conditions to Vermont and California, particularly Squaw Valley. Elsewhere, resorts in states such as Utah and Colorado have seen fresh snowfalls and are now enjoying excellent conditions. Big Sky in Montana has had constant snowfall providing good powder skiing. Light snowfalls and sunny weather are predicted this week.CanadaConsistent snowfalls in eastern Canadian resorts have left soft powder. Conditions are good in Blue Mountain, Tremblant and Big White. Up to half a metre of snow is expected at many resorts in the east, with light snow and sunny spells elsewhere.\u00b7  Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "Italy holidays", "France holidays", "Austria holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "United States holidays", "Canada holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow  report"},{"date": "2008-02-10T00:36:58Z", "country": "canada", "content": "FranceMost resorts have seen some snow and conditions are generally excellent, although strong winds have caused some lifts to shut. Warm weather and sunny skies are forecast for this week. AustriaSnow has been falling in Austria, with excellent powder skiing on upper slopes. Conditions at Kitzb\u00fchel and Kirchenberg have benefited from 27cm of new snow. Sunny weather forecast.SwitzerlandThere has been good snow, but warm weather has left slushy conditions on lower slopes at some resorts. After 20cm of snow in Davos/Klosters, conditions are excellent, with sunny weather expected. ItalyMost resorts have seen snowfall of between 10cm and 20cm this week, with low temperatures helping skiing conditions. Uninterrupted sunshine is forecast for the rest of this week. BulgariaLight snowfall has improved skiing conditions, and more is forecast, with Borovets expecting the most.United StatesGood snowfall continues and with temperatures around -10C, conditions are superb. Stowe, in Vermont, saw 50cm on Wednesday; further, lighter, snowfalls are forecast for most American resorts.CanadaThere have been heavy snowfalls in most Canadian resorts, and more is forecast. Chilcotin Mountain Range has 80cm of fresh powder, while Blue Mountain has 50cm. More snow is expected this week, particularly in Whistler. \u00b7  Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow report"},{"date": "2008-02-08T13:11:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The introduction of sharia law in Ontario, Canada, was effectively recommended by a 2004 report which prompted debate and street protests, both for and against its findings.Family faith-based tribunals had been set up by Catholic and Jewish communities following the passing of the province's Arbitration Act in 1991. The act was an attempt to deal with a backlog of court cases. It enabled groups to use the guiding principles of their faith to help settle disputes over divorce, inheritance and custody.In 2003, the Islamic Institute of Civil Justice said it intended to establish similar tribunals for the 400,000 Muslims who live in Ontario.Irfan Syed, chairman of the Toronto-based Muslim Lawyers Association, said:\"In truly multicultural countries, this is quite common. It's a legitimate way to give religious communities some autonomy within the scope of our law. The two can exist because the Canadian courts have an ultimate supervisory capacity\"During the ensuing outcry, a former attorney general, Marion Boyd, was asked to review how the arbitration act was working and whether it adversely affected vulnerable people, including women, the elderly and people with disabilities.Published in December 2004, her report recommended (pdf) that the \"Arbitration Act should continue to allow disputes to be arbitrated using religious law.\"She, no doubt, realised it would not be possible to allow Christian and Jewish tribunals to continue but ban Muslim ones.Faisal Kutty, writing in the New Catholic Times, supported the report's findings.\"Sharia is not coming to Canada and there will be no sharia courts. Muslims simply wish to use Islamic principles to resolve their disputes within the Canadian legal system\"But plenty of others didn't.Homa Arjomand, an Iranian who organised International Campaign Against Sharia Court in Canada, argued that the recommendations would push back Canadian law by 1,400 years.\"Our lawyers are studying the decisions of several arbitration cases and will bring them to court and expose how women are victimised by male-dominated legal decisions based on 6th-century religion and traditions.\"Another protester Nasrin Ramzanali, said \"If the shariah is used in Canada, I also feel threatened here.\" There was mainstream scepticism that such tribunals were compatible with Canada's Charter of Rights and Freedoms.Nonsense, argued Richard Fidler, who suggested the \"anti-sharia\" campaign \"unfolded against a backdrop of anti-Muslim propaganda related to the Iraq war, the growing threats to Iran, and Israel's ongoing repression of the Palestinians as well as Canada's increasing military involvement in Afghanistan\". Such was the political feeling that the province's premier, Dalton McGuinty, eventually dismissed Boyd's recommendations. He was also forced to ban other religions which had been using faith-based tribunals.", "tags": ["World news", "Religion", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Sharia law in Canada, almost"},{"date": "2008-03-30T00:00:55Z", "country": "canada", "content": "'Mummy, I've just uncovered a bone that's never been seen before.' My eight-year-old son, who had never handled anything more dangerous than kitchen scissors, was scraping away at the sandstone with awl and scalpel, brushing away loose dirt with a toothbrush. 'I think mine's the femur of a tyrannosaurus,' shouted his 11-year-old brother, working beside him. We were crouching in the sepia dust of Alberta's Red Deer River valley, with the late afternoon sun setting the sagebrush and goldenrod alight and deepening the shadows of the volcanic hills, hot on the trail of a 70-million-year-old death. Well, perhaps not quite 70 million. The excavation site was a mock-up by the Royal Tyrrell Museum, one of the world's leading showcases of dinosaur remains, to give the younger participants in its summer camps a taste of the excitement only a master's degree in palaeontology could otherwise afford.But the rest of our three-day sojourn at the family camp, sleeping in tipis under the prairie stars by night and hunting for dinosaur fossils by day, was the real thing. My boys were hooked as surely as an ornithopod in a tyrannosaurus's claws.The trip had started inauspiciously. The evening before, a freak storm had swept in from the Arctic, sending temperatures plunging and stirring up strong winds that felled the tipis at the campsite near the museum. Volcanic clay's soft, rapidly eroding properties have yielded some of the greatest concentrations of dinosaur remains in the world. But that night the rain ran straight off the hills, turning the valley floor into a sinkhole of mud and rushing brown water. It's not for nothing that this area is known as the 'badlands' - described as 'mauvais terroir \u00e0 traverser' by the early French missionaries.The camp organisers were still trying to restore the ungainly canvas sleeping quarters ahead of our arrival that afternoon when the heavens opened again, and once more the clay turned into mud several inches thick. As we slid and squelched along the footpath to the camp, our trainers turned into three-inch platform shoes with an unshakeable mixture of mud and prairie grass. Dragging such wattle-and-daub weights around added to the feeling of being on another planet. But if the camp 'counsellors' were feeling the strain, you would never have known it from their antics around the campfire that night as we were inducted into the North American camp culture of aerobic singalongs. Even my normally self-conscious 11-year-old joined in, concentrating hard on remembering the tongue-twisting lyrics for reprisal in his London playground in September.That same concentration was in evidence the next day as we were handed tweezers and magnifying glasses and asked to sort through trayfuls of micro-fossils. What looked to be rubble turned out to contain the shells of pre-Cambrian clams, scales and vertebrae from 100-million-year-old fish, and teeth, bits of bone and cartilage from various prehistoric creatures. Craig, palaeontologist-cum-counsellor, walked around the room responding to the hands jabbing the air. 'You see this shiny, flat exterior and the Aero bar-like interior,' he said to one child. 'What you've got in your hand, my friend, is a piece of dinosaur bone.' The micro-fossils were the bounty from just a few shovelfuls of rubble skimmed from the surface at Dinosaur Provincial Park, a Unesco heritage site that claims to have yielded the world's highest number of large, mostly complete, dinosaur skeletons. The pickings here are so rich that scientists have left undisturbed bone beds that could contain the remains of thousands more dinosaurs. Specimens excavated in 1967 are still in their mummy-like 'jackets' awaiting examination. The Red Deer River valley has been a famous dinosaur graveyard since the turn of last century, when a curator at the American Museum of Natural History in New York heard a man in a cowboy hat laughing uproariously as he viewed the museum's celebrated dinosaur exhibits. Puzzled, the curator asked what was so funny. The man replied: 'You putting these in a museum! My cows are tripping over bones bigger than this all the time.'A $10 wager was laid, and the curator dispatched his champion fossil-hunter, one Barnum Brown, to the valley to investigate. Brown, known as Mr Bones, returned with news of untold fossil riches, and the $10 was well spent. Brown's reconnaissance mission set off an espionage-filled five years known as the Great Canadian Dinosaur Rush, as buccaneering bone-hunters raced to unearth the prehistoric bounty. At a single excavation site Brown unearthed nine complete skeletons of Albertosaurus, a smaller but more agile relative of T.Rex. Once the American and Canadian museums had had their fill, the British Museum and the Natural History Museum hired the bone-hunters, and some of their finest specimens date from this period. It requires a child's imagination to picture the Red Deer River Valley as the subtropical swampland it was 70 million years ago, before the Rocky Mountains erupted and the Ice Age descended, putting paid to the dinosaurs. It requires far less imagination to picture what this area was like when Blackfoot Indians roamed the plains. The Blackfoot called the dinosaur fossils 'grandfather buffalo bones', and as a burial ground the badlands were regarded as sacred territory. The bison that they hunted in their millions are long gone, but some of the other prairie creatures the Blackfoot once shared the plains with are still around. As I left the outhouse just after dawn on the first day, I saw a mother mule deer and her two fawns picking their way through the prairie grass 100m away. We watched each other for half a minute before they all took flight, their hind legs working in unison like an impala's. It was after we left the museum, heading out of the steep ravines of the badlands toward the rolling prairies, that we saw the biggest natural attraction - a stone forest of 10 towering sandstone pillars topped with mushroom-like slabs of harder rock. They are known as Hoodoos, and the Blackfoot thought they were homes of the spirits. As we clambered among the pillars in their glacier-like setting of crevasses and hidey-holes, it really felt as if we were in a landscape built for giants.Trained now to look for traces of prehistoric life among the rock formations, I bent to examine a faint imprint in the surface of one hill, wondering whether it was evidence of a Cretaceous-era relative of the stingray. But as I looked up to see my youngest poke her head out from one of the hidey-holes, I decided it was more likely the tread of an Adidas trainersaurus. It was reassuring to think we could leave some imprint of our passing on this timeless landscape, after all.A three-night stay at the Badlands Science Camp starts from $230 for adults and $195 for children (5-14 years) and includes activities, camping equipment and meals. More information at tyrrellmuseum.com. Canadian Affair (020 7616 9999; canadianaffair.com) has flights from Gatwick, Glasgow and Manchester to Edmonton from \u00a3198 return, with discounts for children up to 12. More details on the region at travelalberta.com.Isle of WightThe remains of more than 20 dinosaur species have been found here, and fossil-hunting trips are held regularly in the summer. A week self-catering at Gotten Manor (01983 551368; gottenmanor.co.uk) for a family of four starts at \u00a3550. South DakotaJoin an expedition this summer to excavate 26,000-year-old mammoth bones in South Dakota in the US. Run by Earthwatch (earthwatch.org), the trip lasts 15 days and the \u00a3895 price per person includes shared accommodation and most meals but not flights.ColoradoThe Dinosaur Highway contains impressive Jurassic remains, including footprints and bones, and is a 10-hour drive between Colorado and Utah. Trailfinders (0845 050 5871; trailfinders.com) can arrange fly-drive holidays from \u00a3489. SpainThe Austurian coast contains Spain's best collection of dinosaur remains, many of which remain visible in the cliffs around Quintueles and the surrounding area. Casas Cantabricas (01223 328721; casas.co.uk) charges from \u00a3490 a week for the two-bedroom Casa Belen in the heart of the region.", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Family holidays", "Camping holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Terry Slavin takes her children to a family dinosaur camp in Canada"},{"date": "2008-03-09T00:03:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "FranceFresh snow and low temperatures have improved conditions, though strong winds have left some runs exposed. Bar\u00e8ges-La Mongie saw 40cm of snow, while Cauterets and Font Romeu in the French Pyrenees had 50cm. Further snowfalls are expected.AustriaWinter wonderland conditions returned after bumper snowfalls and freezing temperatures, with improvements particularly obvious on lower slopes. Bad Gastein, Axamer Lizum and Kaprun are among resorts with good powder. More snow is forecast.SwitzerlandHeavy snowfall has transformed some resorts into powder paradises, including Gstaad, Wengen, Engelberg and Grindelwald. Around half a metre of fresh snowfall is forecast for the beginning of this week.ItalySome resorts report fresh snow, while others have hard-packed pistes. Alagna is waiting for fresh falls after nearly a month without snow, but Canazei and Selva Gardena are enjoying powder conditions. Over 20cm of fresh snow is expected this weekend.United StatesWarm weather has brought spring-like conditions to Vermont and California, particularly Squaw Valley. Elsewhere, resorts in states such as Utah and Colorado have seen fresh snowfalls and are now enjoying excellent conditions. Big Sky in Montana has had constant snowfall providing good powder skiing. Light snowfalls and sunny weather are predicted this week.CanadaConsistent snowfalls in eastern Canadian resorts have left soft powder. Conditions are good in Blue Mountain, Tremblant and Big White. Up to half a metre of snow is expected at many resorts in the east, with light snow and sunny spells elsewhere.\u00b7  Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "Italy holidays", "France holidays", "Austria holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "United States holidays", "Canada holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow  report"},{"date": "2008-02-10T00:36:58Z", "country": "canada", "content": "FranceMost resorts have seen some snow and conditions are generally excellent, although strong winds have caused some lifts to shut. Warm weather and sunny skies are forecast for this week. AustriaSnow has been falling in Austria, with excellent powder skiing on upper slopes. Conditions at Kitzb\u00fchel and Kirchenberg have benefited from 27cm of new snow. Sunny weather forecast.SwitzerlandThere has been good snow, but warm weather has left slushy conditions on lower slopes at some resorts. After 20cm of snow in Davos/Klosters, conditions are excellent, with sunny weather expected. ItalyMost resorts have seen snowfall of between 10cm and 20cm this week, with low temperatures helping skiing conditions. Uninterrupted sunshine is forecast for the rest of this week. BulgariaLight snowfall has improved skiing conditions, and more is forecast, with Borovets expecting the most.United StatesGood snowfall continues and with temperatures around -10C, conditions are superb. Stowe, in Vermont, saw 50cm on Wednesday; further, lighter, snowfalls are forecast for most American resorts.CanadaThere have been heavy snowfalls in most Canadian resorts, and more is forecast. Chilcotin Mountain Range has 80cm of fresh powder, while Blue Mountain has 50cm. More snow is expected this week, particularly in Whistler. \u00b7  Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow report"},{"date": "2008-01-20T11:09:50Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Snow fell throughout last week, with the southern Alps and Pyrenees benefiting the most. Flaine got 30cm of snow on Wednesday, Val d'Is\u00e8re and Samoens got 20cm on Thursday. There is excellent powder skiing in Chamonix, La Plagne, Les Arcs and Val Thorens. However this year's heavy snow has come at a cost - 26 people have died in avalanches in the Alps since the new year. Take care. Between 10cm and 20cm of fresh snow fell late last week, with the Innsbruck area and western resorts doing best. St Anton now has an impressive 235cm snow depth at the top, while Ischgl is reporting powder conditions even on-piste.Less snow in Switzerland, although Zermatt did well with around 20cm of new snow on Wednesday. The sun was due to return today after small falls of under 10cm late last week.Some huge falls in the middle of last week - the little resort of Chiesa got 60cm, while the Milky Way resorts got 40cm. Sun is forecast today and early this week.Steady daily falls of 20cm have added up to some huge overall snow depths - Timberline has 368cm at the top. Between 20cm and 30cm more is forecast for the western resorts this weekend. The east coast resorts have good conditions, even if with far less snow than out west. Fabulous conditions in British Columbia - Whistler has 242cm at the top, while Revelstoke has had 48cm in the past week. East coast resorts such as Tremblant and Mont-Sainte-Anne are forecasting up to 30cm this weekend.\u00b7 Data courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (www.skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Travel", "France holidays", "Austria holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Italy holidays", "United States holidays", "Canada holidays"], "title": "Snow report"},{"date": "2008-02-08T13:11:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The introduction of sharia law in Ontario, Canada, was effectively recommended by a 2004 report which prompted debate and street protests, both for and against its findings.Family faith-based tribunals had been set up by Catholic and Jewish communities following the passing of the province's Arbitration Act in 1991. The act was an attempt to deal with a backlog of court cases. It enabled groups to use the guiding principles of their faith to help settle disputes over divorce, inheritance and custody.In 2003, the Islamic Institute of Civil Justice said it intended to establish similar tribunals for the 400,000 Muslims who live in Ontario.Irfan Syed, chairman of the Toronto-based Muslim Lawyers Association, said:\"In truly multicultural countries, this is quite common. It's a legitimate way to give religious communities some autonomy within the scope of our law. The two can exist because the Canadian courts have an ultimate supervisory capacity\"During the ensuing outcry, a former attorney general, Marion Boyd, was asked to review how the arbitration act was working and whether it adversely affected vulnerable people, including women, the elderly and people with disabilities.Published in December 2004, her report recommended (pdf) that the \"Arbitration Act should continue to allow disputes to be arbitrated using religious law.\"She, no doubt, realised it would not be possible to allow Christian and Jewish tribunals to continue but ban Muslim ones.Faisal Kutty, writing in the New Catholic Times, supported the report's findings.\"Sharia is not coming to Canada and there will be no sharia courts. Muslims simply wish to use Islamic principles to resolve their disputes within the Canadian legal system\"But plenty of others didn't.Homa Arjomand, an Iranian who organised International Campaign Against Sharia Court in Canada, argued that the recommendations would push back Canadian law by 1,400 years.\"Our lawyers are studying the decisions of several arbitration cases and will bring them to court and expose how women are victimised by male-dominated legal decisions based on 6th-century religion and traditions.\"Another protester Nasrin Ramzanali, said \"If the shariah is used in Canada, I also feel threatened here.\" There was mainstream scepticism that such tribunals were compatible with Canada's Charter of Rights and Freedoms.Nonsense, argued Richard Fidler, who suggested the \"anti-sharia\" campaign \"unfolded against a backdrop of anti-Muslim propaganda related to the Iraq war, the growing threats to Iran, and Israel's ongoing repression of the Palestinians as well as Canada's increasing military involvement in Afghanistan\". Such was the political feeling that the province's premier, Dalton McGuinty, eventually dismissed Boyd's recommendations. He was also forced to ban other religions which had been using faith-based tribunals.", "tags": ["World news", "Religion", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Sharia law in Canada, almost"},{"date": "2008-03-30T00:00:55Z", "country": "canada", "content": "'Mummy, I've just uncovered a bone that's never been seen before.' My eight-year-old son, who had never handled anything more dangerous than kitchen scissors, was scraping away at the sandstone with awl and scalpel, brushing away loose dirt with a toothbrush. 'I think mine's the femur of a tyrannosaurus,' shouted his 11-year-old brother, working beside him. We were crouching in the sepia dust of Alberta's Red Deer River valley, with the late afternoon sun setting the sagebrush and goldenrod alight and deepening the shadows of the volcanic hills, hot on the trail of a 70-million-year-old death. Well, perhaps not quite 70 million. The excavation site was a mock-up by the Royal Tyrrell Museum, one of the world's leading showcases of dinosaur remains, to give the younger participants in its summer camps a taste of the excitement only a master's degree in palaeontology could otherwise afford.But the rest of our three-day sojourn at the family camp, sleeping in tipis under the prairie stars by night and hunting for dinosaur fossils by day, was the real thing. My boys were hooked as surely as an ornithopod in a tyrannosaurus's claws.The trip had started inauspiciously. The evening before, a freak storm had swept in from the Arctic, sending temperatures plunging and stirring up strong winds that felled the tipis at the campsite near the museum. Volcanic clay's soft, rapidly eroding properties have yielded some of the greatest concentrations of dinosaur remains in the world. But that night the rain ran straight off the hills, turning the valley floor into a sinkhole of mud and rushing brown water. It's not for nothing that this area is known as the 'badlands' - described as 'mauvais terroir \u00e0 traverser' by the early French missionaries.The camp organisers were still trying to restore the ungainly canvas sleeping quarters ahead of our arrival that afternoon when the heavens opened again, and once more the clay turned into mud several inches thick. As we slid and squelched along the footpath to the camp, our trainers turned into three-inch platform shoes with an unshakeable mixture of mud and prairie grass. Dragging such wattle-and-daub weights around added to the feeling of being on another planet. But if the camp 'counsellors' were feeling the strain, you would never have known it from their antics around the campfire that night as we were inducted into the North American camp culture of aerobic singalongs. Even my normally self-conscious 11-year-old joined in, concentrating hard on remembering the tongue-twisting lyrics for reprisal in his London playground in September.That same concentration was in evidence the next day as we were handed tweezers and magnifying glasses and asked to sort through trayfuls of micro-fossils. What looked to be rubble turned out to contain the shells of pre-Cambrian clams, scales and vertebrae from 100-million-year-old fish, and teeth, bits of bone and cartilage from various prehistoric creatures. Craig, palaeontologist-cum-counsellor, walked around the room responding to the hands jabbing the air. 'You see this shiny, flat exterior and the Aero bar-like interior,' he said to one child. 'What you've got in your hand, my friend, is a piece of dinosaur bone.' The micro-fossils were the bounty from just a few shovelfuls of rubble skimmed from the surface at Dinosaur Provincial Park, a Unesco heritage site that claims to have yielded the world's highest number of large, mostly complete, dinosaur skeletons. The pickings here are so rich that scientists have left undisturbed bone beds that could contain the remains of thousands more dinosaurs. Specimens excavated in 1967 are still in their mummy-like 'jackets' awaiting examination. The Red Deer River valley has been a famous dinosaur graveyard since the turn of last century, when a curator at the American Museum of Natural History in New York heard a man in a cowboy hat laughing uproariously as he viewed the museum's celebrated dinosaur exhibits. Puzzled, the curator asked what was so funny. The man replied: 'You putting these in a museum! My cows are tripping over bones bigger than this all the time.'A $10 wager was laid, and the curator dispatched his champion fossil-hunter, one Barnum Brown, to the valley to investigate. Brown, known as Mr Bones, returned with news of untold fossil riches, and the $10 was well spent. Brown's reconnaissance mission set off an espionage-filled five years known as the Great Canadian Dinosaur Rush, as buccaneering bone-hunters raced to unearth the prehistoric bounty. At a single excavation site Brown unearthed nine complete skeletons of Albertosaurus, a smaller but more agile relative of T.Rex. Once the American and Canadian museums had had their fill, the British Museum and the Natural History Museum hired the bone-hunters, and some of their finest specimens date from this period. It requires a child's imagination to picture the Red Deer River Valley as the subtropical swampland it was 70 million years ago, before the Rocky Mountains erupted and the Ice Age descended, putting paid to the dinosaurs. It requires far less imagination to picture what this area was like when Blackfoot Indians roamed the plains. The Blackfoot called the dinosaur fossils 'grandfather buffalo bones', and as a burial ground the badlands were regarded as sacred territory. The bison that they hunted in their millions are long gone, but some of the other prairie creatures the Blackfoot once shared the plains with are still around. As I left the outhouse just after dawn on the first day, I saw a mother mule deer and her two fawns picking their way through the prairie grass 100m away. We watched each other for half a minute before they all took flight, their hind legs working in unison like an impala's. It was after we left the museum, heading out of the steep ravines of the badlands toward the rolling prairies, that we saw the biggest natural attraction - a stone forest of 10 towering sandstone pillars topped with mushroom-like slabs of harder rock. They are known as Hoodoos, and the Blackfoot thought they were homes of the spirits. As we clambered among the pillars in their glacier-like setting of crevasses and hidey-holes, it really felt as if we were in a landscape built for giants.Trained now to look for traces of prehistoric life among the rock formations, I bent to examine a faint imprint in the surface of one hill, wondering whether it was evidence of a Cretaceous-era relative of the stingray. But as I looked up to see my youngest poke her head out from one of the hidey-holes, I decided it was more likely the tread of an Adidas trainersaurus. It was reassuring to think we could leave some imprint of our passing on this timeless landscape, after all.A three-night stay at the Badlands Science Camp starts from $230 for adults and $195 for children (5-14 years) and includes activities, camping equipment and meals. More information at tyrrellmuseum.com. Canadian Affair (020 7616 9999; canadianaffair.com) has flights from Gatwick, Glasgow and Manchester to Edmonton from \u00a3198 return, with discounts for children up to 12. More details on the region at travelalberta.com.Isle of WightThe remains of more than 20 dinosaur species have been found here, and fossil-hunting trips are held regularly in the summer. A week self-catering at Gotten Manor (01983 551368; gottenmanor.co.uk) for a family of four starts at \u00a3550. South DakotaJoin an expedition this summer to excavate 26,000-year-old mammoth bones in South Dakota in the US. Run by Earthwatch (earthwatch.org), the trip lasts 15 days and the \u00a3895 price per person includes shared accommodation and most meals but not flights.ColoradoThe Dinosaur Highway contains impressive Jurassic remains, including footprints and bones, and is a 10-hour drive between Colorado and Utah. Trailfinders (0845 050 5871; trailfinders.com) can arrange fly-drive holidays from \u00a3489. SpainThe Austurian coast contains Spain's best collection of dinosaur remains, many of which remain visible in the cliffs around Quintueles and the surrounding area. Casas Cantabricas (01223 328721; casas.co.uk) charges from \u00a3490 a week for the two-bedroom Casa Belen in the heart of the region.", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Family holidays", "Camping holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Terry Slavin takes her children to a family dinosaur camp in Canada"},{"date": "2008-03-09T00:03:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "FranceFresh snow and low temperatures have improved conditions, though strong winds have left some runs exposed. Bar\u00e8ges-La Mongie saw 40cm of snow, while Cauterets and Font Romeu in the French Pyrenees had 50cm. Further snowfalls are expected.AustriaWinter wonderland conditions returned after bumper snowfalls and freezing temperatures, with improvements particularly obvious on lower slopes. Bad Gastein, Axamer Lizum and Kaprun are among resorts with good powder. More snow is forecast.SwitzerlandHeavy snowfall has transformed some resorts into powder paradises, including Gstaad, Wengen, Engelberg and Grindelwald. Around half a metre of fresh snowfall is forecast for the beginning of this week.ItalySome resorts report fresh snow, while others have hard-packed pistes. Alagna is waiting for fresh falls after nearly a month without snow, but Canazei and Selva Gardena are enjoying powder conditions. Over 20cm of fresh snow is expected this weekend.United StatesWarm weather has brought spring-like conditions to Vermont and California, particularly Squaw Valley. Elsewhere, resorts in states such as Utah and Colorado have seen fresh snowfalls and are now enjoying excellent conditions. Big Sky in Montana has had constant snowfall providing good powder skiing. Light snowfalls and sunny weather are predicted this week.CanadaConsistent snowfalls in eastern Canadian resorts have left soft powder. Conditions are good in Blue Mountain, Tremblant and Big White. Up to half a metre of snow is expected at many resorts in the east, with light snow and sunny spells elsewhere.\u00b7  Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Snowboarding", "Italy holidays", "France holidays", "Austria holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "United States holidays", "Canada holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow  report"},{"date": "2008-02-10T00:36:58Z", "country": "canada", "content": "FranceMost resorts have seen some snow and conditions are generally excellent, although strong winds have caused some lifts to shut. Warm weather and sunny skies are forecast for this week. AustriaSnow has been falling in Austria, with excellent powder skiing on upper slopes. Conditions at Kitzb\u00fchel and Kirchenberg have benefited from 27cm of new snow. Sunny weather forecast.SwitzerlandThere has been good snow, but warm weather has left slushy conditions on lower slopes at some resorts. After 20cm of snow in Davos/Klosters, conditions are excellent, with sunny weather expected. ItalyMost resorts have seen snowfall of between 10cm and 20cm this week, with low temperatures helping skiing conditions. Uninterrupted sunshine is forecast for the rest of this week. BulgariaLight snowfall has improved skiing conditions, and more is forecast, with Borovets expecting the most.United StatesGood snowfall continues and with temperatures around -10C, conditions are superb. Stowe, in Vermont, saw 50cm on Wednesday; further, lighter, snowfalls are forecast for most American resorts.CanadaThere have been heavy snowfalls in most Canadian resorts, and more is forecast. Chilcotin Mountain Range has 80cm of fresh powder, while Blue Mountain has 50cm. More snow is expected this week, particularly in Whistler. \u00b7  Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow report"},{"date": "2008-01-20T11:09:50Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Snow fell throughout last week, with the southern Alps and Pyrenees benefiting the most. Flaine got 30cm of snow on Wednesday, Val d'Is\u00e8re and Samoens got 20cm on Thursday. There is excellent powder skiing in Chamonix, La Plagne, Les Arcs and Val Thorens. However this year's heavy snow has come at a cost - 26 people have died in avalanches in the Alps since the new year. Take care. Between 10cm and 20cm of fresh snow fell late last week, with the Innsbruck area and western resorts doing best. St Anton now has an impressive 235cm snow depth at the top, while Ischgl is reporting powder conditions even on-piste.Less snow in Switzerland, although Zermatt did well with around 20cm of new snow on Wednesday. The sun was due to return today after small falls of under 10cm late last week.Some huge falls in the middle of last week - the little resort of Chiesa got 60cm, while the Milky Way resorts got 40cm. Sun is forecast today and early this week.Steady daily falls of 20cm have added up to some huge overall snow depths - Timberline has 368cm at the top. Between 20cm and 30cm more is forecast for the western resorts this weekend. The east coast resorts have good conditions, even if with far less snow than out west. Fabulous conditions in British Columbia - Whistler has 242cm at the top, while Revelstoke has had 48cm in the past week. East coast resorts such as Tremblant and Mont-Sainte-Anne are forecasting up to 30cm this weekend.\u00b7 Data courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (www.skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Travel", "France holidays", "Austria holidays", "Switzerland holidays", "Italy holidays", "United States holidays", "Canada holidays"], "title": "Snow report"},{"date": "2008-02-24T00:06:27Z", "country": "canada", "content": "FranceLast week, being February half-term, was one of the busiest of the season, and unfortunately conditions across France and most of the Alps were pretty poor. Most French resorts haven't had new snow since the start of the month, and warm temperatures have meant artificial snow machines have been able to operate only at night. Slopes have been icy in the morning, slushy by lunchtime. The good news is that all that could change tomorrow, when all the French resorts are forecasting snow. La Grave, Les Deux Alpes and Alpe d'Huez are expecting the most - 16cm AustriaMassive early snowfalls are now but a memory. Warm weather has seen snow on lower slopes melt away - Mayrhofen has no snow on some lower slopes, Solden just 10cm. Some snow is now forecast, but only a couple of centimetres. Best conditions are in Obergurgl and the St Anton area. ItalyColder temperatures have preserved snow better than elsewhere. Between 4cm and 14cm is expected tomorrow. SwitzerlandA similar picture to France, with some snow due tomorrow. Zermatt predicts 14cm.Norway and SwedenNorway has great conditions - Oppdal had 30cm of new snow on Monday, Voss saw at least 10cm on Thursday. Are in Sweden is forecasting 32cm this weekend. US and CanadaGood, cold, conditions across the US, with California forecasting 60cm this weekend. Western Canada has been sunny and warm, the opposite of the east, where temperatures have been as low as -14C and there have been modest snowfalls . \u00b7 Data Courtesy of the Ski Club of Great Britain (skiclub.co.uk)", "tags": ["Skiing holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Snow report"},{"date": "2008-06-10T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A former US national guardsman will learn next month whether he can remain in Canada, where he has sought refuge from military service in Iraq.If a deportation order against him is not lifted, Corey Glass will become the first US army deserter to be repatriated from Canada to the US. Once home, he could face anything from a dishonourable discharge to time in a military prison. The former soldier was initially ordered to leave the country by tomorrow, but his departure date was extended yesterday to July 10, after an appeal by his lawyer was approved. He said: \"I feel like things are maybe going to turn around for the best. People are working really hard on this.\"Glass is the most visible face of a movement that pits Canada's humanitarian tradition of accepting asylum seekers and refugees against the country's conservative government.He came to Canada in August 2006. He had joined the national guard in 2002, hoping to carry out humanitarian and disaster relief work, but was instead deployed to Iraq in 2005 to work as a military intelligence officer north of Baghdad.After telling his commanding officer that he couldn't continue fighting in a war he didn't believe in, Glass was sent home for two weeks. But instead of rejoining his unit, Glass deserted, arriving eight months later in Toronto at a centre for war resisters run by a 63-year-old who went to Canada from the US to escape the Vietnam war draft.Last week, Canada's House of Commons passed a non-binding resolution urging the government to allow deserters - or war resisters as many prefer to be called - to stay. The resolution was inspired by the plight of Glass and about 40 others who have applied for refugee status. There are thought to be 200 deserters from the US military living in Canada.But the government argues that Glass and the others did not exhaust legal alternatives in the US and have not made a case that they face persecution should they return home. It has also argued that those fleeing to Canada now are in a different situation to those who came during the Vietnam war. \"Those coming to Canada now volunteered for military service,\" said citizenship and immigration spokesperson Danielle Norris.But Glass argues that he was not aware he was volunteering to fight in a war. \"When I joined the national guard, they told me the only way I would be in combat was if there were troops occupying the US,\" he said. \"I signed up to ... do humanitarian work, filling sandbags if there was a hurricane ... I should have been in New Orleans, not Iraq.\"Opposition MP Olivia Chow, who introduced a motion calling on the government to allow Glass and others to stay, said: \"The government had to listen, even though they didn't want to in the beginning,\" she said. \"Canadian values haven't changed that much in terms of we are a peaceful country and we want to allow people that would be deported to jail to stay in Canada.\"But the citizenship and immigration minister, Diane Finlay, said Stephen Harper's administration would not be swayed by emotional pleas. \"The emotion in the House does not change the law in the country.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Canada", "Iraq", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US army deserter faces expulsion from Canada"},{"date": "2008-06-10T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A former US national guardsman will learn next month whether he can remain in Canada, where he has sought refuge from military service in Iraq.If a deportation order against him is not lifted, Corey Glass will become the first US army deserter to be repatriated from Canada to the US. Once home, he could face anything from a dishonourable discharge to time in a military prison. The former soldier was initially ordered to leave the country by tomorrow, but his departure date was extended yesterday to July 10, after an appeal by his lawyer was approved. He said: \"I feel like things are maybe going to turn around for the best. People are working really hard on this.\"Glass is the most visible face of a movement that pits Canada's humanitarian tradition of accepting asylum seekers and refugees against the country's conservative government.He came to Canada in August 2006. He had joined the national guard in 2002, hoping to carry out humanitarian and disaster relief work, but was instead deployed to Iraq in 2005 to work as a military intelligence officer north of Baghdad.After telling his commanding officer that he couldn't continue fighting in a war he didn't believe in, Glass was sent home for two weeks. But instead of rejoining his unit, Glass deserted, arriving eight months later in Toronto at a centre for war resisters run by a 63-year-old who went to Canada from the US to escape the Vietnam war draft.Last week, Canada's House of Commons passed a non-binding resolution urging the government to allow deserters - or war resisters as many prefer to be called - to stay. The resolution was inspired by the plight of Glass and about 40 others who have applied for refugee status. There are thought to be 200 deserters from the US military living in Canada.But the government argues that Glass and the others did not exhaust legal alternatives in the US and have not made a case that they face persecution should they return home. It has also argued that those fleeing to Canada now are in a different situation to those who came during the Vietnam war. \"Those coming to Canada now volunteered for military service,\" said citizenship and immigration spokesperson Danielle Norris.But Glass argues that he was not aware he was volunteering to fight in a war. \"When I joined the national guard, they told me the only way I would be in combat was if there were troops occupying the US,\" he said. \"I signed up to ... do humanitarian work, filling sandbags if there was a hurricane ... I should have been in New Orleans, not Iraq.\"Opposition MP Olivia Chow, who introduced a motion calling on the government to allow Glass and others to stay, said: \"The government had to listen, even though they didn't want to in the beginning,\" she said. \"Canadian values haven't changed that much in terms of we are a peaceful country and we want to allow people that would be deported to jail to stay in Canada.\"But the citizenship and immigration minister, Diane Finlay, said Stephen Harper's administration would not be swayed by emotional pleas. \"The emotion in the House does not change the law in the country.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Canada", "Iraq", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US army deserter faces expulsion from Canada"},{"date": "2008-04-11T08:15:46Z", "country": "canada", "content": "On October 8 1973, the French director Fran\u00e7ois Truffaut sat down in his suite at the Beverly Hills Hotel and scribbled a note: \"Cher Monsieur ... What you are doing is unique in the world and unique in the history of film. I had tears in my eyes watching your films.\" The object of this knee-trembling tribute was Norman McLaren, a lanky, 59-year-old Scot with an outsized quiff and chalky fingers. McLaren was also, for a while, the second most famous animator in the world, after Walt Disney. Nowadays, though, McLaren is virtually unknown outside art-school studios, but a stage show that reaches Stirling this week should revitalise the reputation of one of the most original artists that modern Britain has produced.The show - called Norman - is presented by 4Dart, a company based in Montreal, where McLaren spent 43 years of his working life under the benign wing of the National Film Board of Canada. He produced 50 short films that won 75 awards (including an Oscar), and earned their creator 203 decorations. This is some achievement for the son of a Stirling interior decorator. \"At last, something new in the world of drawing,\" Picasso exclaimed after viewing two of McLaren's films. The chipper Scot barely returned the compliment. \"This stimulated me no end,\" he acknowledged to his parents in a 1946 letter preserved by his nephews, before adding, \"even tho' [Picasso] is an old man now and of a school that is out of date.\"McLaren, who became a Canadian in 1952, never quite cared which school he belonged to. Born two decades after the invention of cinema, he flung himself - after a false start in drawing and interior design at Glasgow School of Art - into all the possibilities offered by the new medium. He satirised arms traders (Hell Unltd, 1936), crafted exquisite slo-mo ballet sequences (Pas de Deux, 1968), devised 3D pictures, drew, painted and scratched on blank film to produce extraordinary, kilometre-long ribbons of surreal and abstract spectacle. He manipulated the films' soundstrip with pins and paintbrushes to generate an early form of electronic music (Mosaic, Lines Vertical and Lines Horizontal, all from the 1960s). He invented the travelling zoom that allowed viewers to sink further and further \"into\" the screen (C'Est l'Aviron, 1944), and lived to see Stanley Kubrick adopt it for the closing sequence of 2001: A Space Odyssey. He was at various times a communist, a pacifist, a minimalist, a comic and a romantic, and always a hard taskmaster: at 24 frames per second, McLaren once declared (only half-jokingly) that he must have sketched over 50bn images in his career.Despite 70 years of construction in Stirling, it was still possible last week to see a snow-capped Ben More and the western Grampians from the upstairs bedroom of McLaren's former sandstone home in Albert Place. \"I looked out windows and watched clouds roll across the hills,\" he told a Canadian interviewer, recalling his childhood. \"The play of light on hills continued to affect me very much.\" That memory led him to the brain- and hand-numbing practice of modulating his pastel backdrops with thousands of subtle chalk strokes.McLaren, who died in 1987, was proudest of Neighbours (1952), a pixelated anti-war parable that, remarkably, won an Academy award in 1953. His greatest gift to us, though, may be the music video. His short, brilliantly syncopated compositions of colour, form, movement and music (of Ravi Shankar, Oscar Peterson, Pete Seeger and others) prefigure much of what we see today.Several of McLaren's films can be seen on YouTube. Alternately, you can buy The Master's Collection, a box set of seven DVDs issued two years ago by the NFBC, which has also named its Quebec headquarters building after him. Stirling, so far, has been more restrained: there is a 90-word plaque at the town museum, and a McLaren art prize at his former high school.\u00b7 Norman is at the MacRobert Arts Centre, Stirling, April 17-19, and the Theatre Royal, Brighton, May 6-10", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "The Walt Disney we lost to Canada"},{"date": "2008-06-10T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A former US national guardsman will learn next month whether he can remain in Canada, where he has sought refuge from military service in Iraq.If a deportation order against him is not lifted, Corey Glass will become the first US army deserter to be repatriated from Canada to the US. Once home, he could face anything from a dishonourable discharge to time in a military prison. The former soldier was initially ordered to leave the country by tomorrow, but his departure date was extended yesterday to July 10, after an appeal by his lawyer was approved. He said: \"I feel like things are maybe going to turn around for the best. People are working really hard on this.\"Glass is the most visible face of a movement that pits Canada's humanitarian tradition of accepting asylum seekers and refugees against the country's conservative government.He came to Canada in August 2006. He had joined the national guard in 2002, hoping to carry out humanitarian and disaster relief work, but was instead deployed to Iraq in 2005 to work as a military intelligence officer north of Baghdad.After telling his commanding officer that he couldn't continue fighting in a war he didn't believe in, Glass was sent home for two weeks. But instead of rejoining his unit, Glass deserted, arriving eight months later in Toronto at a centre for war resisters run by a 63-year-old who went to Canada from the US to escape the Vietnam war draft.Last week, Canada's House of Commons passed a non-binding resolution urging the government to allow deserters - or war resisters as many prefer to be called - to stay. The resolution was inspired by the plight of Glass and about 40 others who have applied for refugee status. There are thought to be 200 deserters from the US military living in Canada.But the government argues that Glass and the others did not exhaust legal alternatives in the US and have not made a case that they face persecution should they return home. It has also argued that those fleeing to Canada now are in a different situation to those who came during the Vietnam war. \"Those coming to Canada now volunteered for military service,\" said citizenship and immigration spokesperson Danielle Norris.But Glass argues that he was not aware he was volunteering to fight in a war. \"When I joined the national guard, they told me the only way I would be in combat was if there were troops occupying the US,\" he said. \"I signed up to ... do humanitarian work, filling sandbags if there was a hurricane ... I should have been in New Orleans, not Iraq.\"Opposition MP Olivia Chow, who introduced a motion calling on the government to allow Glass and others to stay, said: \"The government had to listen, even though they didn't want to in the beginning,\" she said. \"Canadian values haven't changed that much in terms of we are a peaceful country and we want to allow people that would be deported to jail to stay in Canada.\"But the citizenship and immigration minister, Diane Finlay, said Stephen Harper's administration would not be swayed by emotional pleas. \"The emotion in the House does not change the law in the country.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Canada", "Iraq", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US army deserter faces expulsion from Canada"},{"date": "2008-04-11T08:15:46Z", "country": "canada", "content": "On October 8 1973, the French director Fran\u00e7ois Truffaut sat down in his suite at the Beverly Hills Hotel and scribbled a note: \"Cher Monsieur ... What you are doing is unique in the world and unique in the history of film. I had tears in my eyes watching your films.\" The object of this knee-trembling tribute was Norman McLaren, a lanky, 59-year-old Scot with an outsized quiff and chalky fingers. McLaren was also, for a while, the second most famous animator in the world, after Walt Disney. Nowadays, though, McLaren is virtually unknown outside art-school studios, but a stage show that reaches Stirling this week should revitalise the reputation of one of the most original artists that modern Britain has produced.The show - called Norman - is presented by 4Dart, a company based in Montreal, where McLaren spent 43 years of his working life under the benign wing of the National Film Board of Canada. He produced 50 short films that won 75 awards (including an Oscar), and earned their creator 203 decorations. This is some achievement for the son of a Stirling interior decorator. \"At last, something new in the world of drawing,\" Picasso exclaimed after viewing two of McLaren's films. The chipper Scot barely returned the compliment. \"This stimulated me no end,\" he acknowledged to his parents in a 1946 letter preserved by his nephews, before adding, \"even tho' [Picasso] is an old man now and of a school that is out of date.\"McLaren, who became a Canadian in 1952, never quite cared which school he belonged to. Born two decades after the invention of cinema, he flung himself - after a false start in drawing and interior design at Glasgow School of Art - into all the possibilities offered by the new medium. He satirised arms traders (Hell Unltd, 1936), crafted exquisite slo-mo ballet sequences (Pas de Deux, 1968), devised 3D pictures, drew, painted and scratched on blank film to produce extraordinary, kilometre-long ribbons of surreal and abstract spectacle. He manipulated the films' soundstrip with pins and paintbrushes to generate an early form of electronic music (Mosaic, Lines Vertical and Lines Horizontal, all from the 1960s). He invented the travelling zoom that allowed viewers to sink further and further \"into\" the screen (C'Est l'Aviron, 1944), and lived to see Stanley Kubrick adopt it for the closing sequence of 2001: A Space Odyssey. He was at various times a communist, a pacifist, a minimalist, a comic and a romantic, and always a hard taskmaster: at 24 frames per second, McLaren once declared (only half-jokingly) that he must have sketched over 50bn images in his career.Despite 70 years of construction in Stirling, it was still possible last week to see a snow-capped Ben More and the western Grampians from the upstairs bedroom of McLaren's former sandstone home in Albert Place. \"I looked out windows and watched clouds roll across the hills,\" he told a Canadian interviewer, recalling his childhood. \"The play of light on hills continued to affect me very much.\" That memory led him to the brain- and hand-numbing practice of modulating his pastel backdrops with thousands of subtle chalk strokes.McLaren, who died in 1987, was proudest of Neighbours (1952), a pixelated anti-war parable that, remarkably, won an Academy award in 1953. His greatest gift to us, though, may be the music video. His short, brilliantly syncopated compositions of colour, form, movement and music (of Ravi Shankar, Oscar Peterson, Pete Seeger and others) prefigure much of what we see today.Several of McLaren's films can be seen on YouTube. Alternately, you can buy The Master's Collection, a box set of seven DVDs issued two years ago by the NFBC, which has also named its Quebec headquarters building after him. Stirling, so far, has been more restrained: there is a 90-word plaque at the town museum, and a McLaren art prize at his former high school.\u00b7 Norman is at the MacRobert Arts Centre, Stirling, April 17-19, and the Theatre Royal, Brighton, May 6-10", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "The Walt Disney we lost to Canada"},{"date": "2008-05-23T14:56:27Z", "country": "canada", "content": "More Washington chinook would be coming home to spawn under proposed changes to a US-Canadian salmon treaty announced yesterday.The move, if approved by the two governments, could give a boost to the flagging fortunes of chinook runs in Puget Sound and the Columbia River, now protected under the endangered species act.But it will come at a price to the fishing industries in Canada and Alaska, which will have to forgo catching as many as 100,000 of the prized fish every year so they can reach their home rivers.Despite those cuts, described as painful by Alaskan and Canadian representatives, there appears to be broad governmental support for changes to a treaty that, in the past, has triggered bitter cross-border feuds.\"My hat goes off to our Canadian colleagues who saw this, as we did, as an opportunity to take a concerted effort forward on conservation,\" said Washington governor Christine Gregoire.The changes, hammered out over a year and a half by US and Canadian representatives on the Pacific Salmon Commission, would mean a 15% cut in chinook caught in southeast Alaska compared to what's allowed today, and a 30% cut off the west coast of Vancouver Island.That's expected to translate into more fish returning to Washington, because many of those chinook, particularly the ones off Vancouver Island, spawn in Puget Sound rivers and the Columbia River.\"With this agreement, we make a substantial down payment in our efforts to return Washington's weak, wild chinook-salmon populations back to sustainable levels,\" said Jeff Koenings, director of the state's department of fish and wildlife, and a lead US negotiator.The new terms under the treaty still must be reviewed by the two national governments, and would need their approval. Congress wouldn't need to ratify the changes, because they don't amend the actual treaty. But the deal hinges on millions in funding from Congress.The proposed changes won endorsements from Northwest tribes with fishing rights, and Washington commercial fishermen with a stake in the fate of chinook runs.Commercial fishermen here are coping with salmon fisheries that are closed off much of the Oregon and California coasts, and pared back in Washington.With fewer chinook caught to the north \"we might be able to maintain a skeleton fishery down here while the wild [chinook] stocks are recovering,\" said Doug Fricke, president of the Washington Trollers Association. Troll fishing, the most common technique for commercial chinook fishing, relies on long fishing lines with multiple hooks pulled behind a boat.But farther north, fishermen were much less enthusiastic.Dale Kelley, of the Alaska Trollers Association, said the cuts in Alaskan fishing were just a bargaining chip, traded so the Canadians would agree to less fishing off Vancouver Island.But the real source of the salmon's plight, she said, lies with habitat destruction in places such as Puget Sound.\"The people that do not want to gin up political will to deal with that problem just got a free pass,\" she said.In Canada, negotiator Gerry Kristianson, who sits on the Pacific Salmon Commission and represented sport-fishing interests, said he supported the deal partly because the US was willing to cut Alaskan fishing levels in return for the Canadian cuts.But, he said: \"It obviously imposes a significant amount of pain on the west coast of Vancouver Island.\"The pain could be eased by a $30m payment the US would make to Canada under the new arrangement.Meanwhile, a lead attorney for fish conservation groups questioned the deal's benefits. While it's good to reduce chinook fishing off Vancouver Island, it's not clear there's scientific evidence that a 30% reduction is the right one, said Svend Brandt-Erichsen.Brandt-Erichsen, a Seattle attorney, represents conservation groups that sued over the existing version of the Pacific Salmon Treaty. They charged that as many as 88% of the chinook caught off Vancouver Island's west coast came from US rivers.So far they have lost those suits, but several are on appeal.Still, the deal is enjoying support from government officials in Canada, Washington and even Alaska.\"I can assure you that people in Alaska are not thrilled with the way that it came out. But the fact that we acquiesced I think shows the way we are willing to act as partners in this shared resource,\" said Dave Bedford, of the Alaska's department of fish and game, who represented the state in the negotiations.That's a stark contrast to the past, when treaty talks triggered fiery rhetoric, protests and diplomatic sabre rattling between the US and Canada.At the heart of the problem are salmon that defy political boundaries, spawning in one country's rivers, then migrating into ocean controlled by another.Canadians in the past have complained that Alaskan fishermen catch too many fish bound for Canadian rivers, while US officials objected that Canadian fishermen haul in too many salmon bound for US waters.In the 1990s, the last time the treaty was renegotiated, tempers grew so hot that Canadian fishermen blockaded an Alaska ferry terminal for days, and Canadian authorities seized several US fishing boats in Canadian waters.Since then, however, pressure to deal with dwindling chinook runs has mounted. In 1999, Puget Sound chinook were listed under the endangered species act, joining Columbia River chinook that continue to struggle. Canadians also have faced problems with some salmon runs.That growing recognition of the common threat to salmon helped drive the negotiations, said Koenings.It was also helpful that the major sticking point from the last round - the divvying up of sockeye salmon - was left to a separate set of negotiations. The previous sockeye deal is set to expire in two years.", "tags": ["Fishing", "US news", "Canada", "Environment", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US and Canada reach tentative agreement on salmon fishing"},{"date": "2008-06-10T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A former US national guardsman will learn next month whether he can remain in Canada, where he has sought refuge from military service in Iraq.If a deportation order against him is not lifted, Corey Glass will become the first US army deserter to be repatriated from Canada to the US. Once home, he could face anything from a dishonourable discharge to time in a military prison. The former soldier was initially ordered to leave the country by tomorrow, but his departure date was extended yesterday to July 10, after an appeal by his lawyer was approved. He said: \"I feel like things are maybe going to turn around for the best. People are working really hard on this.\"Glass is the most visible face of a movement that pits Canada's humanitarian tradition of accepting asylum seekers and refugees against the country's conservative government.He came to Canada in August 2006. He had joined the national guard in 2002, hoping to carry out humanitarian and disaster relief work, but was instead deployed to Iraq in 2005 to work as a military intelligence officer north of Baghdad.After telling his commanding officer that he couldn't continue fighting in a war he didn't believe in, Glass was sent home for two weeks. But instead of rejoining his unit, Glass deserted, arriving eight months later in Toronto at a centre for war resisters run by a 63-year-old who went to Canada from the US to escape the Vietnam war draft.Last week, Canada's House of Commons passed a non-binding resolution urging the government to allow deserters - or war resisters as many prefer to be called - to stay. The resolution was inspired by the plight of Glass and about 40 others who have applied for refugee status. There are thought to be 200 deserters from the US military living in Canada.But the government argues that Glass and the others did not exhaust legal alternatives in the US and have not made a case that they face persecution should they return home. It has also argued that those fleeing to Canada now are in a different situation to those who came during the Vietnam war. \"Those coming to Canada now volunteered for military service,\" said citizenship and immigration spokesperson Danielle Norris.But Glass argues that he was not aware he was volunteering to fight in a war. \"When I joined the national guard, they told me the only way I would be in combat was if there were troops occupying the US,\" he said. \"I signed up to ... do humanitarian work, filling sandbags if there was a hurricane ... I should have been in New Orleans, not Iraq.\"Opposition MP Olivia Chow, who introduced a motion calling on the government to allow Glass and others to stay, said: \"The government had to listen, even though they didn't want to in the beginning,\" she said. \"Canadian values haven't changed that much in terms of we are a peaceful country and we want to allow people that would be deported to jail to stay in Canada.\"But the citizenship and immigration minister, Diane Finlay, said Stephen Harper's administration would not be swayed by emotional pleas. \"The emotion in the House does not change the law in the country.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Canada", "Iraq", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US army deserter faces expulsion from Canada"},{"date": "2008-04-11T08:15:46Z", "country": "canada", "content": "On October 8 1973, the French director Fran\u00e7ois Truffaut sat down in his suite at the Beverly Hills Hotel and scribbled a note: \"Cher Monsieur ... What you are doing is unique in the world and unique in the history of film. I had tears in my eyes watching your films.\" The object of this knee-trembling tribute was Norman McLaren, a lanky, 59-year-old Scot with an outsized quiff and chalky fingers. McLaren was also, for a while, the second most famous animator in the world, after Walt Disney. Nowadays, though, McLaren is virtually unknown outside art-school studios, but a stage show that reaches Stirling this week should revitalise the reputation of one of the most original artists that modern Britain has produced.The show - called Norman - is presented by 4Dart, a company based in Montreal, where McLaren spent 43 years of his working life under the benign wing of the National Film Board of Canada. He produced 50 short films that won 75 awards (including an Oscar), and earned their creator 203 decorations. This is some achievement for the son of a Stirling interior decorator. \"At last, something new in the world of drawing,\" Picasso exclaimed after viewing two of McLaren's films. The chipper Scot barely returned the compliment. \"This stimulated me no end,\" he acknowledged to his parents in a 1946 letter preserved by his nephews, before adding, \"even tho' [Picasso] is an old man now and of a school that is out of date.\"McLaren, who became a Canadian in 1952, never quite cared which school he belonged to. Born two decades after the invention of cinema, he flung himself - after a false start in drawing and interior design at Glasgow School of Art - into all the possibilities offered by the new medium. He satirised arms traders (Hell Unltd, 1936), crafted exquisite slo-mo ballet sequences (Pas de Deux, 1968), devised 3D pictures, drew, painted and scratched on blank film to produce extraordinary, kilometre-long ribbons of surreal and abstract spectacle. He manipulated the films' soundstrip with pins and paintbrushes to generate an early form of electronic music (Mosaic, Lines Vertical and Lines Horizontal, all from the 1960s). He invented the travelling zoom that allowed viewers to sink further and further \"into\" the screen (C'Est l'Aviron, 1944), and lived to see Stanley Kubrick adopt it for the closing sequence of 2001: A Space Odyssey. He was at various times a communist, a pacifist, a minimalist, a comic and a romantic, and always a hard taskmaster: at 24 frames per second, McLaren once declared (only half-jokingly) that he must have sketched over 50bn images in his career.Despite 70 years of construction in Stirling, it was still possible last week to see a snow-capped Ben More and the western Grampians from the upstairs bedroom of McLaren's former sandstone home in Albert Place. \"I looked out windows and watched clouds roll across the hills,\" he told a Canadian interviewer, recalling his childhood. \"The play of light on hills continued to affect me very much.\" That memory led him to the brain- and hand-numbing practice of modulating his pastel backdrops with thousands of subtle chalk strokes.McLaren, who died in 1987, was proudest of Neighbours (1952), a pixelated anti-war parable that, remarkably, won an Academy award in 1953. His greatest gift to us, though, may be the music video. His short, brilliantly syncopated compositions of colour, form, movement and music (of Ravi Shankar, Oscar Peterson, Pete Seeger and others) prefigure much of what we see today.Several of McLaren's films can be seen on YouTube. Alternately, you can buy The Master's Collection, a box set of seven DVDs issued two years ago by the NFBC, which has also named its Quebec headquarters building after him. Stirling, so far, has been more restrained: there is a 90-word plaque at the town museum, and a McLaren art prize at his former high school.\u00b7 Norman is at the MacRobert Arts Centre, Stirling, April 17-19, and the Theatre Royal, Brighton, May 6-10", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "The Walt Disney we lost to Canada"},{"date": "2008-05-23T14:56:27Z", "country": "canada", "content": "More Washington chinook would be coming home to spawn under proposed changes to a US-Canadian salmon treaty announced yesterday.The move, if approved by the two governments, could give a boost to the flagging fortunes of chinook runs in Puget Sound and the Columbia River, now protected under the endangered species act.But it will come at a price to the fishing industries in Canada and Alaska, which will have to forgo catching as many as 100,000 of the prized fish every year so they can reach their home rivers.Despite those cuts, described as painful by Alaskan and Canadian representatives, there appears to be broad governmental support for changes to a treaty that, in the past, has triggered bitter cross-border feuds.\"My hat goes off to our Canadian colleagues who saw this, as we did, as an opportunity to take a concerted effort forward on conservation,\" said Washington governor Christine Gregoire.The changes, hammered out over a year and a half by US and Canadian representatives on the Pacific Salmon Commission, would mean a 15% cut in chinook caught in southeast Alaska compared to what's allowed today, and a 30% cut off the west coast of Vancouver Island.That's expected to translate into more fish returning to Washington, because many of those chinook, particularly the ones off Vancouver Island, spawn in Puget Sound rivers and the Columbia River.\"With this agreement, we make a substantial down payment in our efforts to return Washington's weak, wild chinook-salmon populations back to sustainable levels,\" said Jeff Koenings, director of the state's department of fish and wildlife, and a lead US negotiator.The new terms under the treaty still must be reviewed by the two national governments, and would need their approval. Congress wouldn't need to ratify the changes, because they don't amend the actual treaty. But the deal hinges on millions in funding from Congress.The proposed changes won endorsements from Northwest tribes with fishing rights, and Washington commercial fishermen with a stake in the fate of chinook runs.Commercial fishermen here are coping with salmon fisheries that are closed off much of the Oregon and California coasts, and pared back in Washington.With fewer chinook caught to the north \"we might be able to maintain a skeleton fishery down here while the wild [chinook] stocks are recovering,\" said Doug Fricke, president of the Washington Trollers Association. Troll fishing, the most common technique for commercial chinook fishing, relies on long fishing lines with multiple hooks pulled behind a boat.But farther north, fishermen were much less enthusiastic.Dale Kelley, of the Alaska Trollers Association, said the cuts in Alaskan fishing were just a bargaining chip, traded so the Canadians would agree to less fishing off Vancouver Island.But the real source of the salmon's plight, she said, lies with habitat destruction in places such as Puget Sound.\"The people that do not want to gin up political will to deal with that problem just got a free pass,\" she said.In Canada, negotiator Gerry Kristianson, who sits on the Pacific Salmon Commission and represented sport-fishing interests, said he supported the deal partly because the US was willing to cut Alaskan fishing levels in return for the Canadian cuts.But, he said: \"It obviously imposes a significant amount of pain on the west coast of Vancouver Island.\"The pain could be eased by a $30m payment the US would make to Canada under the new arrangement.Meanwhile, a lead attorney for fish conservation groups questioned the deal's benefits. While it's good to reduce chinook fishing off Vancouver Island, it's not clear there's scientific evidence that a 30% reduction is the right one, said Svend Brandt-Erichsen.Brandt-Erichsen, a Seattle attorney, represents conservation groups that sued over the existing version of the Pacific Salmon Treaty. They charged that as many as 88% of the chinook caught off Vancouver Island's west coast came from US rivers.So far they have lost those suits, but several are on appeal.Still, the deal is enjoying support from government officials in Canada, Washington and even Alaska.\"I can assure you that people in Alaska are not thrilled with the way that it came out. But the fact that we acquiesced I think shows the way we are willing to act as partners in this shared resource,\" said Dave Bedford, of the Alaska's department of fish and game, who represented the state in the negotiations.That's a stark contrast to the past, when treaty talks triggered fiery rhetoric, protests and diplomatic sabre rattling between the US and Canada.At the heart of the problem are salmon that defy political boundaries, spawning in one country's rivers, then migrating into ocean controlled by another.Canadians in the past have complained that Alaskan fishermen catch too many fish bound for Canadian rivers, while US officials objected that Canadian fishermen haul in too many salmon bound for US waters.In the 1990s, the last time the treaty was renegotiated, tempers grew so hot that Canadian fishermen blockaded an Alaska ferry terminal for days, and Canadian authorities seized several US fishing boats in Canadian waters.Since then, however, pressure to deal with dwindling chinook runs has mounted. In 1999, Puget Sound chinook were listed under the endangered species act, joining Columbia River chinook that continue to struggle. Canadians also have faced problems with some salmon runs.That growing recognition of the common threat to salmon helped drive the negotiations, said Koenings.It was also helpful that the major sticking point from the last round - the divvying up of sockeye salmon - was left to a separate set of negotiations. The previous sockeye deal is set to expire in two years.", "tags": ["Fishing", "US news", "Canada", "Environment", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US and Canada reach tentative agreement on salmon fishing"},{"date": "2008-06-24T11:44:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A report by Transparency International (TI) criticised the UK for \"lagging\" behind other countries in enforcing the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development's 2007 Anti-Bribery Convention. But the UK was not the only country to come under fire.The report found that there was \"little or no enforcement\" of the convention by more than half of OECD governments (18 out of 34).While the UK was singled out for its decision to halt the investigation into BAE Systems, another of the largest exporters in the OECD, Japan, was also described as \"lagging\" in enforcement. The report said: \"There is no centralised national office or unit for foreign bribery enforcement in Japan.\"TI recommended that Japan \"enact an independent law specifically regulating the offence of foreign bribery\". It said the country should \"send a strong signal that they are seriously pursuing prosecutions\".The UK and Japan were two of three G7 countries \"showing a lack of sufficient commitment\". The third was Canada.TI said Canada had an \"inadequate definition of foreign bribery\". It recommended \"greater efforts within government agencies involved in foreign countries or with foreign trade initiatives to report up the line and ultimately to enforcement agencies about allegations of bribery\".Although Italy was included in the countries showing \"significant enforcement\" TI said \"the current situation [in Italy] is uncertain\".The full list of countries showing little or no enforcement was: Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Turkey and the United Kingdom.TI said the strongest performers in enforcement were the same as last year, namely France, Germany and the US, which are all among the largest exporters. The US was praised for allowing the greatest access to information and for the number of prosecutions and investigations it had pursued. \"In 2007, the US Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) launched a record number of investigations, continuing a six-year trend. At the same time, penalties and fines have also grown dramatically,\" the report said. In Germany there were more than 43 prosecutions and over 88 pending investigations, including more than 200 since 2001, according to TI. The report highlighted a fine of \u20ac201m (\u00a3159m) imposed on Siemens in October 2007 in connection with charges involving bribery in Nigeria, Russia and Libya. In France, companies reportedly under investigation include Halliburton, Total SA and Alstom.Argentina and Australia were the only two newcomers to the \"significant enforcement\" category.The full list of countries showing \"significant enforcement\" is: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States.", "tags": ["Arms trade", "The BAE files", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Anti-corruption: Canada, Japan and Ireland among those also under fire"},{"date": "2008-06-10T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A former US national guardsman will learn next month whether he can remain in Canada, where he has sought refuge from military service in Iraq.If a deportation order against him is not lifted, Corey Glass will become the first US army deserter to be repatriated from Canada to the US. Once home, he could face anything from a dishonourable discharge to time in a military prison. The former soldier was initially ordered to leave the country by tomorrow, but his departure date was extended yesterday to July 10, after an appeal by his lawyer was approved. He said: \"I feel like things are maybe going to turn around for the best. People are working really hard on this.\"Glass is the most visible face of a movement that pits Canada's humanitarian tradition of accepting asylum seekers and refugees against the country's conservative government.He came to Canada in August 2006. He had joined the national guard in 2002, hoping to carry out humanitarian and disaster relief work, but was instead deployed to Iraq in 2005 to work as a military intelligence officer north of Baghdad.After telling his commanding officer that he couldn't continue fighting in a war he didn't believe in, Glass was sent home for two weeks. But instead of rejoining his unit, Glass deserted, arriving eight months later in Toronto at a centre for war resisters run by a 63-year-old who went to Canada from the US to escape the Vietnam war draft.Last week, Canada's House of Commons passed a non-binding resolution urging the government to allow deserters - or war resisters as many prefer to be called - to stay. The resolution was inspired by the plight of Glass and about 40 others who have applied for refugee status. There are thought to be 200 deserters from the US military living in Canada.But the government argues that Glass and the others did not exhaust legal alternatives in the US and have not made a case that they face persecution should they return home. It has also argued that those fleeing to Canada now are in a different situation to those who came during the Vietnam war. \"Those coming to Canada now volunteered for military service,\" said citizenship and immigration spokesperson Danielle Norris.But Glass argues that he was not aware he was volunteering to fight in a war. \"When I joined the national guard, they told me the only way I would be in combat was if there were troops occupying the US,\" he said. \"I signed up to ... do humanitarian work, filling sandbags if there was a hurricane ... I should have been in New Orleans, not Iraq.\"Opposition MP Olivia Chow, who introduced a motion calling on the government to allow Glass and others to stay, said: \"The government had to listen, even though they didn't want to in the beginning,\" she said. \"Canadian values haven't changed that much in terms of we are a peaceful country and we want to allow people that would be deported to jail to stay in Canada.\"But the citizenship and immigration minister, Diane Finlay, said Stephen Harper's administration would not be swayed by emotional pleas. \"The emotion in the House does not change the law in the country.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Canada", "Iraq", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US army deserter faces expulsion from Canada"},{"date": "2008-04-11T08:15:46Z", "country": "canada", "content": "On October 8 1973, the French director Fran\u00e7ois Truffaut sat down in his suite at the Beverly Hills Hotel and scribbled a note: \"Cher Monsieur ... What you are doing is unique in the world and unique in the history of film. I had tears in my eyes watching your films.\" The object of this knee-trembling tribute was Norman McLaren, a lanky, 59-year-old Scot with an outsized quiff and chalky fingers. McLaren was also, for a while, the second most famous animator in the world, after Walt Disney. Nowadays, though, McLaren is virtually unknown outside art-school studios, but a stage show that reaches Stirling this week should revitalise the reputation of one of the most original artists that modern Britain has produced.The show - called Norman - is presented by 4Dart, a company based in Montreal, where McLaren spent 43 years of his working life under the benign wing of the National Film Board of Canada. He produced 50 short films that won 75 awards (including an Oscar), and earned their creator 203 decorations. This is some achievement for the son of a Stirling interior decorator. \"At last, something new in the world of drawing,\" Picasso exclaimed after viewing two of McLaren's films. The chipper Scot barely returned the compliment. \"This stimulated me no end,\" he acknowledged to his parents in a 1946 letter preserved by his nephews, before adding, \"even tho' [Picasso] is an old man now and of a school that is out of date.\"McLaren, who became a Canadian in 1952, never quite cared which school he belonged to. Born two decades after the invention of cinema, he flung himself - after a false start in drawing and interior design at Glasgow School of Art - into all the possibilities offered by the new medium. He satirised arms traders (Hell Unltd, 1936), crafted exquisite slo-mo ballet sequences (Pas de Deux, 1968), devised 3D pictures, drew, painted and scratched on blank film to produce extraordinary, kilometre-long ribbons of surreal and abstract spectacle. He manipulated the films' soundstrip with pins and paintbrushes to generate an early form of electronic music (Mosaic, Lines Vertical and Lines Horizontal, all from the 1960s). He invented the travelling zoom that allowed viewers to sink further and further \"into\" the screen (C'Est l'Aviron, 1944), and lived to see Stanley Kubrick adopt it for the closing sequence of 2001: A Space Odyssey. He was at various times a communist, a pacifist, a minimalist, a comic and a romantic, and always a hard taskmaster: at 24 frames per second, McLaren once declared (only half-jokingly) that he must have sketched over 50bn images in his career.Despite 70 years of construction in Stirling, it was still possible last week to see a snow-capped Ben More and the western Grampians from the upstairs bedroom of McLaren's former sandstone home in Albert Place. \"I looked out windows and watched clouds roll across the hills,\" he told a Canadian interviewer, recalling his childhood. \"The play of light on hills continued to affect me very much.\" That memory led him to the brain- and hand-numbing practice of modulating his pastel backdrops with thousands of subtle chalk strokes.McLaren, who died in 1987, was proudest of Neighbours (1952), a pixelated anti-war parable that, remarkably, won an Academy award in 1953. His greatest gift to us, though, may be the music video. His short, brilliantly syncopated compositions of colour, form, movement and music (of Ravi Shankar, Oscar Peterson, Pete Seeger and others) prefigure much of what we see today.Several of McLaren's films can be seen on YouTube. Alternately, you can buy The Master's Collection, a box set of seven DVDs issued two years ago by the NFBC, which has also named its Quebec headquarters building after him. Stirling, so far, has been more restrained: there is a 90-word plaque at the town museum, and a McLaren art prize at his former high school.\u00b7 Norman is at the MacRobert Arts Centre, Stirling, April 17-19, and the Theatre Royal, Brighton, May 6-10", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "The Walt Disney we lost to Canada"},{"date": "2008-05-23T14:56:27Z", "country": "canada", "content": "More Washington chinook would be coming home to spawn under proposed changes to a US-Canadian salmon treaty announced yesterday.The move, if approved by the two governments, could give a boost to the flagging fortunes of chinook runs in Puget Sound and the Columbia River, now protected under the endangered species act.But it will come at a price to the fishing industries in Canada and Alaska, which will have to forgo catching as many as 100,000 of the prized fish every year so they can reach their home rivers.Despite those cuts, described as painful by Alaskan and Canadian representatives, there appears to be broad governmental support for changes to a treaty that, in the past, has triggered bitter cross-border feuds.\"My hat goes off to our Canadian colleagues who saw this, as we did, as an opportunity to take a concerted effort forward on conservation,\" said Washington governor Christine Gregoire.The changes, hammered out over a year and a half by US and Canadian representatives on the Pacific Salmon Commission, would mean a 15% cut in chinook caught in southeast Alaska compared to what's allowed today, and a 30% cut off the west coast of Vancouver Island.That's expected to translate into more fish returning to Washington, because many of those chinook, particularly the ones off Vancouver Island, spawn in Puget Sound rivers and the Columbia River.\"With this agreement, we make a substantial down payment in our efforts to return Washington's weak, wild chinook-salmon populations back to sustainable levels,\" said Jeff Koenings, director of the state's department of fish and wildlife, and a lead US negotiator.The new terms under the treaty still must be reviewed by the two national governments, and would need their approval. Congress wouldn't need to ratify the changes, because they don't amend the actual treaty. But the deal hinges on millions in funding from Congress.The proposed changes won endorsements from Northwest tribes with fishing rights, and Washington commercial fishermen with a stake in the fate of chinook runs.Commercial fishermen here are coping with salmon fisheries that are closed off much of the Oregon and California coasts, and pared back in Washington.With fewer chinook caught to the north \"we might be able to maintain a skeleton fishery down here while the wild [chinook] stocks are recovering,\" said Doug Fricke, president of the Washington Trollers Association. Troll fishing, the most common technique for commercial chinook fishing, relies on long fishing lines with multiple hooks pulled behind a boat.But farther north, fishermen were much less enthusiastic.Dale Kelley, of the Alaska Trollers Association, said the cuts in Alaskan fishing were just a bargaining chip, traded so the Canadians would agree to less fishing off Vancouver Island.But the real source of the salmon's plight, she said, lies with habitat destruction in places such as Puget Sound.\"The people that do not want to gin up political will to deal with that problem just got a free pass,\" she said.In Canada, negotiator Gerry Kristianson, who sits on the Pacific Salmon Commission and represented sport-fishing interests, said he supported the deal partly because the US was willing to cut Alaskan fishing levels in return for the Canadian cuts.But, he said: \"It obviously imposes a significant amount of pain on the west coast of Vancouver Island.\"The pain could be eased by a $30m payment the US would make to Canada under the new arrangement.Meanwhile, a lead attorney for fish conservation groups questioned the deal's benefits. While it's good to reduce chinook fishing off Vancouver Island, it's not clear there's scientific evidence that a 30% reduction is the right one, said Svend Brandt-Erichsen.Brandt-Erichsen, a Seattle attorney, represents conservation groups that sued over the existing version of the Pacific Salmon Treaty. They charged that as many as 88% of the chinook caught off Vancouver Island's west coast came from US rivers.So far they have lost those suits, but several are on appeal.Still, the deal is enjoying support from government officials in Canada, Washington and even Alaska.\"I can assure you that people in Alaska are not thrilled with the way that it came out. But the fact that we acquiesced I think shows the way we are willing to act as partners in this shared resource,\" said Dave Bedford, of the Alaska's department of fish and game, who represented the state in the negotiations.That's a stark contrast to the past, when treaty talks triggered fiery rhetoric, protests and diplomatic sabre rattling between the US and Canada.At the heart of the problem are salmon that defy political boundaries, spawning in one country's rivers, then migrating into ocean controlled by another.Canadians in the past have complained that Alaskan fishermen catch too many fish bound for Canadian rivers, while US officials objected that Canadian fishermen haul in too many salmon bound for US waters.In the 1990s, the last time the treaty was renegotiated, tempers grew so hot that Canadian fishermen blockaded an Alaska ferry terminal for days, and Canadian authorities seized several US fishing boats in Canadian waters.Since then, however, pressure to deal with dwindling chinook runs has mounted. In 1999, Puget Sound chinook were listed under the endangered species act, joining Columbia River chinook that continue to struggle. Canadians also have faced problems with some salmon runs.That growing recognition of the common threat to salmon helped drive the negotiations, said Koenings.It was also helpful that the major sticking point from the last round - the divvying up of sockeye salmon - was left to a separate set of negotiations. The previous sockeye deal is set to expire in two years.", "tags": ["Fishing", "US news", "Canada", "Environment", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US and Canada reach tentative agreement on salmon fishing"},{"date": "2008-06-24T11:44:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A report by Transparency International (TI) criticised the UK for \"lagging\" behind other countries in enforcing the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development's 2007 Anti-Bribery Convention. But the UK was not the only country to come under fire.The report found that there was \"little or no enforcement\" of the convention by more than half of OECD governments (18 out of 34).While the UK was singled out for its decision to halt the investigation into BAE Systems, another of the largest exporters in the OECD, Japan, was also described as \"lagging\" in enforcement. The report said: \"There is no centralised national office or unit for foreign bribery enforcement in Japan.\"TI recommended that Japan \"enact an independent law specifically regulating the offence of foreign bribery\". It said the country should \"send a strong signal that they are seriously pursuing prosecutions\".The UK and Japan were two of three G7 countries \"showing a lack of sufficient commitment\". The third was Canada.TI said Canada had an \"inadequate definition of foreign bribery\". It recommended \"greater efforts within government agencies involved in foreign countries or with foreign trade initiatives to report up the line and ultimately to enforcement agencies about allegations of bribery\".Although Italy was included in the countries showing \"significant enforcement\" TI said \"the current situation [in Italy] is uncertain\".The full list of countries showing little or no enforcement was: Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Turkey and the United Kingdom.TI said the strongest performers in enforcement were the same as last year, namely France, Germany and the US, which are all among the largest exporters. The US was praised for allowing the greatest access to information and for the number of prosecutions and investigations it had pursued. \"In 2007, the US Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) launched a record number of investigations, continuing a six-year trend. At the same time, penalties and fines have also grown dramatically,\" the report said. In Germany there were more than 43 prosecutions and over 88 pending investigations, including more than 200 since 2001, according to TI. The report highlighted a fine of \u20ac201m (\u00a3159m) imposed on Siemens in October 2007 in connection with charges involving bribery in Nigeria, Russia and Libya. In France, companies reportedly under investigation include Halliburton, Total SA and Alstom.Argentina and Australia were the only two newcomers to the \"significant enforcement\" category.The full list of countries showing \"significant enforcement\" is: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States.", "tags": ["Arms trade", "The BAE files", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Anti-corruption: Canada, Japan and Ireland among those also under fire"},{"date": "2008-06-20T18:01:05Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Even on a bright, breezy summer's day, there is something uninviting about Savage Road. Its single lane track runs straight as an arrow before stopping at the water's edge on Westham Island, 15 miles from downtown Vancouver. At one end, a farm shop offers honey, fresh eggs and, incongruously, prawns. Nearby is a rod and gun club. Beyond the flattened delta landscape, mountains shimmer on the horizon. At the far end of Savage Road stands a boatyard. Hulking pieces of rusted machinery lie close to a concrete ramp leading to the water. It was here on Monday that the couple that owns the yard found something not entirely unexpected in the water: a severed human foot.\"We were just walking out in the morning, when we saw a shoe floating in the water, right there,\" the man, who preferred not to give his name, recounted two days later. \"We thought: Oh no, there's another one. Any time you see a shoe floating in the water, you kind of dread what you're going to find.\"\"We flipped it over with a stick and saw it was all yellow inside,\" said the man. \"You could see there was a foot in there. It was pretty nasty. And it stank.\"The man pointed across the water to a radio tower on another island, perhaps a mile away.\"That's where they found the one last week,\" he said.The two human feet encased in training shoes are merely the latest chapters in a whodunit that has the locals in this fishing and ferrying community buzzing. Five human feet have washed up on the island coastline around Vancouver since August last year, including two in the last four weeks. All but the one on Westham Island have been right feet; all but one appear to have been male and all have been wearing trainers - Reeboks, Nikes and Adidas. The first four were all size 12.The most recent find made front page news in Canada: \"The mystery of the feet\", was the Vancouver Sun's take on the story, while the normally staid National Post tried \"British Columbia's sixth foot of separation\", following it up with the quizzical, \"Why is it always feet?\" The Province, a somewhat racier local tabloid, took a more optimistic slant: \"Sixth foot raises hopes,\" it proclaimed.But the most recent foot turned out not to be human at all. A prankster had stuffed an animal paw into a trainer and planted it on the beach. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police were not amused.\"Who ever is responsible for this took the time to ensure that the remains were set up to closely resemble human remains,\" said inspector Brendan FitzPatrick. \"Many families with missing loved ones are closely watching and wondering if it is their loved one who has been found. The insensitivity shown to the families and the victims involved is unbelievable.\"One of the first on the scene at Campbell River was Kirsten Stevens, whose brother was one of five men who died when their seaplane crashed three years ago just minutes away from the site. Her brother's remains were the only ones found.\"We are so frustrated,\" she told the Globe and Mail. \"This is the same spit where the plane took off from. It's a constant reminder of the lack of closure.\"DNA profiles of the first three feet, found last year, do not match any missing-person cases, according to the coroner's office.While the evidence has been gathered, there are few clues to the origin of the five feet.\"The big picture is that there are body parts washing up all over the place all the time,\" said Curtis Ebbesmeyer, a retired oceanographer-turned-beachcomber who is writing a book about flotsam and jetsam to be published next year titled The Floating World.But this, he admits, is different. \"I've never come across a time when we've had five of one kind at one time. It's highly unusual.\"Ebbesmeyer got his start in the world of flotsam thanks, coincidentally, to Nike shoes. His interest in tracing the movements of ocean-born objects was piqued by the loss in 1990 of 80,000 Nike shoes when five containers rolled off a ship in heavy waters off Alaska. But shoes with feet in them are a different matter.\"The shoe is going to protect the foot pretty well,\" Ebbesmeyer said. \"Most shoes float, and sneakers tend to float sole up, so that would protect them from birds.\"Theories about the origins of the feet abound. Some suggest that they belong to victims of the 2004 Asian tsunami, or that they may be from the victims of maritime or air accidents. Others point to the large numbers of missing people in British Columbia. According to police there were 2,371 people listed as missing in the province at the end of May, with gang-related crime, drugs and homelessness all contributing to the problem. The exploits of Vancouver area pig farmer and convicted murderer Robert Pickton loom large. Pickton was convicted last year of the murder of six women, and according to the prosecution at his trial confessed to the murder of 43 others.The suggestion that there may be a criminal element connected with the appearance of so many feet is bolstered by the conclusion of Ebbesmeyer and other oceanographers that the feet have most probably been born down the Fraser River - which flows from the Rocky Mountains before reaching the Pacific Ocean at Vancouver - swelled by the spring snowmelt.\"This is such a highly improbable situation it begs the question of foul play,\" said Ebbesmeyer.The police are refusing to speculate.\"It is a unique situation but that doesn't mean there is a link between them all,\" said Delta police spokeswoman Sharlene Brooks. \"Our forensic investigation will help us identify them, then hopefully we can establish the circumstances of death and determine if this was accidental or a criminal act. We're treating it as a criminal investigation until we have reached that determination. That's the prudent thing to do. We'd do that regardless of whether it was a foot.\" Back at Westham Island, the man who found foot number five has few doubts about its origin.\"This is coming down from the river, no question about it,\" he said. \"There's someone doing this all right. Think about it, if they tied a chain around someone's ankle and threw them overboard, the foot would just pop off. That could explain it. Maybe they got a lot of bodies stored up in a container and they got washed out. We don't know. There's a lot of stuff goes on over there,\" he added, nodding toward the city.One person's misfortune, however, did bring him some reward.\"This is private property you're on,\" he said. \"We've had just about everything here the last couple of days, helicopters, boats, TV. We even took a photograph and sold it to the TV for $800. If they can afford to fly people around the world to look at this, there must be some money for a photograph.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mystery lingers as five human feet wash ashore off Vancouver in British Columbia, Canada"},{"date": "2008-06-10T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A former US national guardsman will learn next month whether he can remain in Canada, where he has sought refuge from military service in Iraq.If a deportation order against him is not lifted, Corey Glass will become the first US army deserter to be repatriated from Canada to the US. Once home, he could face anything from a dishonourable discharge to time in a military prison. The former soldier was initially ordered to leave the country by tomorrow, but his departure date was extended yesterday to July 10, after an appeal by his lawyer was approved. He said: \"I feel like things are maybe going to turn around for the best. People are working really hard on this.\"Glass is the most visible face of a movement that pits Canada's humanitarian tradition of accepting asylum seekers and refugees against the country's conservative government.He came to Canada in August 2006. He had joined the national guard in 2002, hoping to carry out humanitarian and disaster relief work, but was instead deployed to Iraq in 2005 to work as a military intelligence officer north of Baghdad.After telling his commanding officer that he couldn't continue fighting in a war he didn't believe in, Glass was sent home for two weeks. But instead of rejoining his unit, Glass deserted, arriving eight months later in Toronto at a centre for war resisters run by a 63-year-old who went to Canada from the US to escape the Vietnam war draft.Last week, Canada's House of Commons passed a non-binding resolution urging the government to allow deserters - or war resisters as many prefer to be called - to stay. The resolution was inspired by the plight of Glass and about 40 others who have applied for refugee status. There are thought to be 200 deserters from the US military living in Canada.But the government argues that Glass and the others did not exhaust legal alternatives in the US and have not made a case that they face persecution should they return home. It has also argued that those fleeing to Canada now are in a different situation to those who came during the Vietnam war. \"Those coming to Canada now volunteered for military service,\" said citizenship and immigration spokesperson Danielle Norris.But Glass argues that he was not aware he was volunteering to fight in a war. \"When I joined the national guard, they told me the only way I would be in combat was if there were troops occupying the US,\" he said. \"I signed up to ... do humanitarian work, filling sandbags if there was a hurricane ... I should have been in New Orleans, not Iraq.\"Opposition MP Olivia Chow, who introduced a motion calling on the government to allow Glass and others to stay, said: \"The government had to listen, even though they didn't want to in the beginning,\" she said. \"Canadian values haven't changed that much in terms of we are a peaceful country and we want to allow people that would be deported to jail to stay in Canada.\"But the citizenship and immigration minister, Diane Finlay, said Stephen Harper's administration would not be swayed by emotional pleas. \"The emotion in the House does not change the law in the country.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Canada", "Iraq", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US army deserter faces expulsion from Canada"},{"date": "2008-04-11T08:15:46Z", "country": "canada", "content": "On October 8 1973, the French director Fran\u00e7ois Truffaut sat down in his suite at the Beverly Hills Hotel and scribbled a note: \"Cher Monsieur ... What you are doing is unique in the world and unique in the history of film. I had tears in my eyes watching your films.\" The object of this knee-trembling tribute was Norman McLaren, a lanky, 59-year-old Scot with an outsized quiff and chalky fingers. McLaren was also, for a while, the second most famous animator in the world, after Walt Disney. Nowadays, though, McLaren is virtually unknown outside art-school studios, but a stage show that reaches Stirling this week should revitalise the reputation of one of the most original artists that modern Britain has produced.The show - called Norman - is presented by 4Dart, a company based in Montreal, where McLaren spent 43 years of his working life under the benign wing of the National Film Board of Canada. He produced 50 short films that won 75 awards (including an Oscar), and earned their creator 203 decorations. This is some achievement for the son of a Stirling interior decorator. \"At last, something new in the world of drawing,\" Picasso exclaimed after viewing two of McLaren's films. The chipper Scot barely returned the compliment. \"This stimulated me no end,\" he acknowledged to his parents in a 1946 letter preserved by his nephews, before adding, \"even tho' [Picasso] is an old man now and of a school that is out of date.\"McLaren, who became a Canadian in 1952, never quite cared which school he belonged to. Born two decades after the invention of cinema, he flung himself - after a false start in drawing and interior design at Glasgow School of Art - into all the possibilities offered by the new medium. He satirised arms traders (Hell Unltd, 1936), crafted exquisite slo-mo ballet sequences (Pas de Deux, 1968), devised 3D pictures, drew, painted and scratched on blank film to produce extraordinary, kilometre-long ribbons of surreal and abstract spectacle. He manipulated the films' soundstrip with pins and paintbrushes to generate an early form of electronic music (Mosaic, Lines Vertical and Lines Horizontal, all from the 1960s). He invented the travelling zoom that allowed viewers to sink further and further \"into\" the screen (C'Est l'Aviron, 1944), and lived to see Stanley Kubrick adopt it for the closing sequence of 2001: A Space Odyssey. He was at various times a communist, a pacifist, a minimalist, a comic and a romantic, and always a hard taskmaster: at 24 frames per second, McLaren once declared (only half-jokingly) that he must have sketched over 50bn images in his career.Despite 70 years of construction in Stirling, it was still possible last week to see a snow-capped Ben More and the western Grampians from the upstairs bedroom of McLaren's former sandstone home in Albert Place. \"I looked out windows and watched clouds roll across the hills,\" he told a Canadian interviewer, recalling his childhood. \"The play of light on hills continued to affect me very much.\" That memory led him to the brain- and hand-numbing practice of modulating his pastel backdrops with thousands of subtle chalk strokes.McLaren, who died in 1987, was proudest of Neighbours (1952), a pixelated anti-war parable that, remarkably, won an Academy award in 1953. His greatest gift to us, though, may be the music video. His short, brilliantly syncopated compositions of colour, form, movement and music (of Ravi Shankar, Oscar Peterson, Pete Seeger and others) prefigure much of what we see today.Several of McLaren's films can be seen on YouTube. Alternately, you can buy The Master's Collection, a box set of seven DVDs issued two years ago by the NFBC, which has also named its Quebec headquarters building after him. Stirling, so far, has been more restrained: there is a 90-word plaque at the town museum, and a McLaren art prize at his former high school.\u00b7 Norman is at the MacRobert Arts Centre, Stirling, April 17-19, and the Theatre Royal, Brighton, May 6-10", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "The Walt Disney we lost to Canada"},{"date": "2008-05-23T14:56:27Z", "country": "canada", "content": "More Washington chinook would be coming home to spawn under proposed changes to a US-Canadian salmon treaty announced yesterday.The move, if approved by the two governments, could give a boost to the flagging fortunes of chinook runs in Puget Sound and the Columbia River, now protected under the endangered species act.But it will come at a price to the fishing industries in Canada and Alaska, which will have to forgo catching as many as 100,000 of the prized fish every year so they can reach their home rivers.Despite those cuts, described as painful by Alaskan and Canadian representatives, there appears to be broad governmental support for changes to a treaty that, in the past, has triggered bitter cross-border feuds.\"My hat goes off to our Canadian colleagues who saw this, as we did, as an opportunity to take a concerted effort forward on conservation,\" said Washington governor Christine Gregoire.The changes, hammered out over a year and a half by US and Canadian representatives on the Pacific Salmon Commission, would mean a 15% cut in chinook caught in southeast Alaska compared to what's allowed today, and a 30% cut off the west coast of Vancouver Island.That's expected to translate into more fish returning to Washington, because many of those chinook, particularly the ones off Vancouver Island, spawn in Puget Sound rivers and the Columbia River.\"With this agreement, we make a substantial down payment in our efforts to return Washington's weak, wild chinook-salmon populations back to sustainable levels,\" said Jeff Koenings, director of the state's department of fish and wildlife, and a lead US negotiator.The new terms under the treaty still must be reviewed by the two national governments, and would need their approval. Congress wouldn't need to ratify the changes, because they don't amend the actual treaty. But the deal hinges on millions in funding from Congress.The proposed changes won endorsements from Northwest tribes with fishing rights, and Washington commercial fishermen with a stake in the fate of chinook runs.Commercial fishermen here are coping with salmon fisheries that are closed off much of the Oregon and California coasts, and pared back in Washington.With fewer chinook caught to the north \"we might be able to maintain a skeleton fishery down here while the wild [chinook] stocks are recovering,\" said Doug Fricke, president of the Washington Trollers Association. Troll fishing, the most common technique for commercial chinook fishing, relies on long fishing lines with multiple hooks pulled behind a boat.But farther north, fishermen were much less enthusiastic.Dale Kelley, of the Alaska Trollers Association, said the cuts in Alaskan fishing were just a bargaining chip, traded so the Canadians would agree to less fishing off Vancouver Island.But the real source of the salmon's plight, she said, lies with habitat destruction in places such as Puget Sound.\"The people that do not want to gin up political will to deal with that problem just got a free pass,\" she said.In Canada, negotiator Gerry Kristianson, who sits on the Pacific Salmon Commission and represented sport-fishing interests, said he supported the deal partly because the US was willing to cut Alaskan fishing levels in return for the Canadian cuts.But, he said: \"It obviously imposes a significant amount of pain on the west coast of Vancouver Island.\"The pain could be eased by a $30m payment the US would make to Canada under the new arrangement.Meanwhile, a lead attorney for fish conservation groups questioned the deal's benefits. While it's good to reduce chinook fishing off Vancouver Island, it's not clear there's scientific evidence that a 30% reduction is the right one, said Svend Brandt-Erichsen.Brandt-Erichsen, a Seattle attorney, represents conservation groups that sued over the existing version of the Pacific Salmon Treaty. They charged that as many as 88% of the chinook caught off Vancouver Island's west coast came from US rivers.So far they have lost those suits, but several are on appeal.Still, the deal is enjoying support from government officials in Canada, Washington and even Alaska.\"I can assure you that people in Alaska are not thrilled with the way that it came out. But the fact that we acquiesced I think shows the way we are willing to act as partners in this shared resource,\" said Dave Bedford, of the Alaska's department of fish and game, who represented the state in the negotiations.That's a stark contrast to the past, when treaty talks triggered fiery rhetoric, protests and diplomatic sabre rattling between the US and Canada.At the heart of the problem are salmon that defy political boundaries, spawning in one country's rivers, then migrating into ocean controlled by another.Canadians in the past have complained that Alaskan fishermen catch too many fish bound for Canadian rivers, while US officials objected that Canadian fishermen haul in too many salmon bound for US waters.In the 1990s, the last time the treaty was renegotiated, tempers grew so hot that Canadian fishermen blockaded an Alaska ferry terminal for days, and Canadian authorities seized several US fishing boats in Canadian waters.Since then, however, pressure to deal with dwindling chinook runs has mounted. In 1999, Puget Sound chinook were listed under the endangered species act, joining Columbia River chinook that continue to struggle. Canadians also have faced problems with some salmon runs.That growing recognition of the common threat to salmon helped drive the negotiations, said Koenings.It was also helpful that the major sticking point from the last round - the divvying up of sockeye salmon - was left to a separate set of negotiations. The previous sockeye deal is set to expire in two years.", "tags": ["Fishing", "US news", "Canada", "Environment", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US and Canada reach tentative agreement on salmon fishing"},{"date": "2008-06-24T11:44:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A report by Transparency International (TI) criticised the UK for \"lagging\" behind other countries in enforcing the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development's 2007 Anti-Bribery Convention. But the UK was not the only country to come under fire.The report found that there was \"little or no enforcement\" of the convention by more than half of OECD governments (18 out of 34).While the UK was singled out for its decision to halt the investigation into BAE Systems, another of the largest exporters in the OECD, Japan, was also described as \"lagging\" in enforcement. The report said: \"There is no centralised national office or unit for foreign bribery enforcement in Japan.\"TI recommended that Japan \"enact an independent law specifically regulating the offence of foreign bribery\". It said the country should \"send a strong signal that they are seriously pursuing prosecutions\".The UK and Japan were two of three G7 countries \"showing a lack of sufficient commitment\". The third was Canada.TI said Canada had an \"inadequate definition of foreign bribery\". It recommended \"greater efforts within government agencies involved in foreign countries or with foreign trade initiatives to report up the line and ultimately to enforcement agencies about allegations of bribery\".Although Italy was included in the countries showing \"significant enforcement\" TI said \"the current situation [in Italy] is uncertain\".The full list of countries showing little or no enforcement was: Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Turkey and the United Kingdom.TI said the strongest performers in enforcement were the same as last year, namely France, Germany and the US, which are all among the largest exporters. The US was praised for allowing the greatest access to information and for the number of prosecutions and investigations it had pursued. \"In 2007, the US Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) launched a record number of investigations, continuing a six-year trend. At the same time, penalties and fines have also grown dramatically,\" the report said. In Germany there were more than 43 prosecutions and over 88 pending investigations, including more than 200 since 2001, according to TI. The report highlighted a fine of \u20ac201m (\u00a3159m) imposed on Siemens in October 2007 in connection with charges involving bribery in Nigeria, Russia and Libya. In France, companies reportedly under investigation include Halliburton, Total SA and Alstom.Argentina and Australia were the only two newcomers to the \"significant enforcement\" category.The full list of countries showing \"significant enforcement\" is: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States.", "tags": ["Arms trade", "The BAE files", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Anti-corruption: Canada, Japan and Ireland among those also under fire"},{"date": "2008-06-20T18:01:05Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Even on a bright, breezy summer's day, there is something uninviting about Savage Road. Its single lane track runs straight as an arrow before stopping at the water's edge on Westham Island, 15 miles from downtown Vancouver. At one end, a farm shop offers honey, fresh eggs and, incongruously, prawns. Nearby is a rod and gun club. Beyond the flattened delta landscape, mountains shimmer on the horizon. At the far end of Savage Road stands a boatyard. Hulking pieces of rusted machinery lie close to a concrete ramp leading to the water. It was here on Monday that the couple that owns the yard found something not entirely unexpected in the water: a severed human foot.\"We were just walking out in the morning, when we saw a shoe floating in the water, right there,\" the man, who preferred not to give his name, recounted two days later. \"We thought: Oh no, there's another one. Any time you see a shoe floating in the water, you kind of dread what you're going to find.\"\"We flipped it over with a stick and saw it was all yellow inside,\" said the man. \"You could see there was a foot in there. It was pretty nasty. And it stank.\"The man pointed across the water to a radio tower on another island, perhaps a mile away.\"That's where they found the one last week,\" he said.The two human feet encased in training shoes are merely the latest chapters in a whodunit that has the locals in this fishing and ferrying community buzzing. Five human feet have washed up on the island coastline around Vancouver since August last year, including two in the last four weeks. All but the one on Westham Island have been right feet; all but one appear to have been male and all have been wearing trainers - Reeboks, Nikes and Adidas. The first four were all size 12.The most recent find made front page news in Canada: \"The mystery of the feet\", was the Vancouver Sun's take on the story, while the normally staid National Post tried \"British Columbia's sixth foot of separation\", following it up with the quizzical, \"Why is it always feet?\" The Province, a somewhat racier local tabloid, took a more optimistic slant: \"Sixth foot raises hopes,\" it proclaimed.But the most recent foot turned out not to be human at all. A prankster had stuffed an animal paw into a trainer and planted it on the beach. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police were not amused.\"Who ever is responsible for this took the time to ensure that the remains were set up to closely resemble human remains,\" said inspector Brendan FitzPatrick. \"Many families with missing loved ones are closely watching and wondering if it is their loved one who has been found. The insensitivity shown to the families and the victims involved is unbelievable.\"One of the first on the scene at Campbell River was Kirsten Stevens, whose brother was one of five men who died when their seaplane crashed three years ago just minutes away from the site. Her brother's remains were the only ones found.\"We are so frustrated,\" she told the Globe and Mail. \"This is the same spit where the plane took off from. It's a constant reminder of the lack of closure.\"DNA profiles of the first three feet, found last year, do not match any missing-person cases, according to the coroner's office.While the evidence has been gathered, there are few clues to the origin of the five feet.\"The big picture is that there are body parts washing up all over the place all the time,\" said Curtis Ebbesmeyer, a retired oceanographer-turned-beachcomber who is writing a book about flotsam and jetsam to be published next year titled The Floating World.But this, he admits, is different. \"I've never come across a time when we've had five of one kind at one time. It's highly unusual.\"Ebbesmeyer got his start in the world of flotsam thanks, coincidentally, to Nike shoes. His interest in tracing the movements of ocean-born objects was piqued by the loss in 1990 of 80,000 Nike shoes when five containers rolled off a ship in heavy waters off Alaska. But shoes with feet in them are a different matter.\"The shoe is going to protect the foot pretty well,\" Ebbesmeyer said. \"Most shoes float, and sneakers tend to float sole up, so that would protect them from birds.\"Theories about the origins of the feet abound. Some suggest that they belong to victims of the 2004 Asian tsunami, or that they may be from the victims of maritime or air accidents. Others point to the large numbers of missing people in British Columbia. According to police there were 2,371 people listed as missing in the province at the end of May, with gang-related crime, drugs and homelessness all contributing to the problem. The exploits of Vancouver area pig farmer and convicted murderer Robert Pickton loom large. Pickton was convicted last year of the murder of six women, and according to the prosecution at his trial confessed to the murder of 43 others.The suggestion that there may be a criminal element connected with the appearance of so many feet is bolstered by the conclusion of Ebbesmeyer and other oceanographers that the feet have most probably been born down the Fraser River - which flows from the Rocky Mountains before reaching the Pacific Ocean at Vancouver - swelled by the spring snowmelt.\"This is such a highly improbable situation it begs the question of foul play,\" said Ebbesmeyer.The police are refusing to speculate.\"It is a unique situation but that doesn't mean there is a link between them all,\" said Delta police spokeswoman Sharlene Brooks. \"Our forensic investigation will help us identify them, then hopefully we can establish the circumstances of death and determine if this was accidental or a criminal act. We're treating it as a criminal investigation until we have reached that determination. That's the prudent thing to do. We'd do that regardless of whether it was a foot.\" Back at Westham Island, the man who found foot number five has few doubts about its origin.\"This is coming down from the river, no question about it,\" he said. \"There's someone doing this all right. Think about it, if they tied a chain around someone's ankle and threw them overboard, the foot would just pop off. That could explain it. Maybe they got a lot of bodies stored up in a container and they got washed out. We don't know. There's a lot of stuff goes on over there,\" he added, nodding toward the city.One person's misfortune, however, did bring him some reward.\"This is private property you're on,\" he said. \"We've had just about everything here the last couple of days, helicopters, boats, TV. We even took a photograph and sold it to the TV for $800. If they can afford to fly people around the world to look at this, there must be some money for a photograph.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mystery lingers as five human feet wash ashore off Vancouver in British Columbia, Canada"},{"date": "2008-06-16T15:15:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Is the mark of a good festival the feeling at the end that you wished you'd caught more bands? In the instance of North By Northeast, that meant Permanent Bastards, Whiteboy Slim, Calm Down It's Monday, Yukon Cigar and Shit La Merde, that last a nod to Canada's multilingualism. Not that there seemed to be a particular buzz about any of these at NXNE, but an intriguing name is as good as any come-on when faced with over 400 acts in the course of three nights.Could NXNE be the new South By Southwest? Every year what seems like the entire British music industry decamps to Austin, Texas, for SXSW and the search for the latest breakthrough bands. But given that Main Street on Saturday night could well be mistaken for Camden Town come chucking out time, what hope is there for anyone to discover something truly new? And for anyone wanting to demonstrate that they're ahead of the curve, what could be better than disappearing to NXNE in Toronto instead?In the end, it didn't prove quite as easy as that. In Austin, it's hard to escape the festival whereas in Toronto at the weekend, it was sometimes hard to find the action. Stumbling along Queen Street West on Friday night, there was a NXNE-participating bar or club every couple of hundred yards, but there weren't crowds spilling into the street or queues forming outside the hottest venues - and this despite the fact that a three-day wristband guaranteeing entry to every gig was a snip at $29. Plenty of Torontons to whom this correspondent spoke seemed unaware that there even was a music festival happening in the city. And that's partly, alas, because no-one could plausibly argue that the NXNE line-up represents the bleeding edge. Top-line speakers at the conference that complements the live action included Thomas Dolby, Hugh Cornwall from the Stranglers and Radio 2's Whispering Bob Harris. Perhaps the most famous act playing the festival was Evan Dando.It would help, if NXNE does want to emulate the pulling-power of its Texan inspiration, if a Canadian act like Arcade Fire could be roped in to feature.Set against that, there was the promise that the new Arcade Fire might be discovered. Certainly those happy clappy pop tarts (just joking) were the band most often cited as a reference point by others. The woman in the cinema queue who said that it was essential we see Hey Rosetta! on Saturday night told us that they were just like Win Butler and co. Well, they do come from St. John's, Newfoundland, they've got a fiddle and cello thing going on and the crowd packed into the Legendary Horseshoe Tavern on West Queen was keen. But of acts in that vein, I preferred David Martel and his band (the Friendships?) at the Hideout the night before; outside, the rain came down in sheets, while he captured something occasionally close to magical.Who else? At Reverb on the Friday, I was waiting to catch Southend's finest, These New Puritans, but caught a band called People In Planes first. Now, whether it was the Moosehead talking (beer, that is), or whether it's a second sign of a good festival... but while their brand of melodic rock wouldn't normally be my thing, they put on an euphoric show and left me wanting to track down their latest CD. And then of all places, it turns out they're from Wales.Nothing could, however top the over-the-top Semi-Precious Weapons. Friends in New York, where the band (could only) come from had warned me that they might have the new Darkness on their bands. Now that of course is a mixed blessing. But frontman Justin (see that comparison again?) finally had the crowd lapping him up, very almost literally. And then touchingly he stayed behind to sell some merchadise, claiming that one of the bands at NXNE get paid to play. Never mind, because plenty of Toronto's hot young things will now be showing off new 'I Can't Pay My Rent But I'm Fucking Gorgeous' bags.There was plenty more, too, some of it quickly forgotten, some of it lost to haphazard note-taking. Venues lured us in through the strength of their names, too. Bu alas, the Bovine Sex Club let us down. The Real McKenzies playing there on Friday night were billed as 'handsome, well-dressed young men who play Celti-punk with lots of bagpipes'. But it was worse than that because the first part of that tag could be investigated by the Trades Description bods.Otherwise, there was also a small film festival running by day. Do check out Tricia Todd's Agile, Mobile, Hostile if you get the chance - a documentary looking at a year in the life of rap forefather Andre Williams that is by turns harrowing and highly entertaining. Also, running concurrently with NXNE was the city's highbrow Luminato festival, staging gigs and art events, including an exhibition of recent paintings by Joni Mitchell called Green Flag Song. Now, she might be Canadian, and Canadians are the politest people on earth. So let's not say it sucked big time. Nitin Sawhney was also in town for Luminato, and played a live DJ set on Saturday night at Revival on College Street to a couple of thousand fans. By this stage, the Moosehead was really doing its thing, but I spoke to him after it, and I'm pretty sure he said he was only dimly aware of NXNE. So there's room for improvement, even if at the same time, Toronto proved a fine place to party.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Festivals", "SXSW"], "title": "Is NXNE the new SXSW?"},{"date": "2008-06-10T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A former US national guardsman will learn next month whether he can remain in Canada, where he has sought refuge from military service in Iraq.If a deportation order against him is not lifted, Corey Glass will become the first US army deserter to be repatriated from Canada to the US. Once home, he could face anything from a dishonourable discharge to time in a military prison. The former soldier was initially ordered to leave the country by tomorrow, but his departure date was extended yesterday to July 10, after an appeal by his lawyer was approved. He said: \"I feel like things are maybe going to turn around for the best. People are working really hard on this.\"Glass is the most visible face of a movement that pits Canada's humanitarian tradition of accepting asylum seekers and refugees against the country's conservative government.He came to Canada in August 2006. He had joined the national guard in 2002, hoping to carry out humanitarian and disaster relief work, but was instead deployed to Iraq in 2005 to work as a military intelligence officer north of Baghdad.After telling his commanding officer that he couldn't continue fighting in a war he didn't believe in, Glass was sent home for two weeks. But instead of rejoining his unit, Glass deserted, arriving eight months later in Toronto at a centre for war resisters run by a 63-year-old who went to Canada from the US to escape the Vietnam war draft.Last week, Canada's House of Commons passed a non-binding resolution urging the government to allow deserters - or war resisters as many prefer to be called - to stay. The resolution was inspired by the plight of Glass and about 40 others who have applied for refugee status. There are thought to be 200 deserters from the US military living in Canada.But the government argues that Glass and the others did not exhaust legal alternatives in the US and have not made a case that they face persecution should they return home. It has also argued that those fleeing to Canada now are in a different situation to those who came during the Vietnam war. \"Those coming to Canada now volunteered for military service,\" said citizenship and immigration spokesperson Danielle Norris.But Glass argues that he was not aware he was volunteering to fight in a war. \"When I joined the national guard, they told me the only way I would be in combat was if there were troops occupying the US,\" he said. \"I signed up to ... do humanitarian work, filling sandbags if there was a hurricane ... I should have been in New Orleans, not Iraq.\"Opposition MP Olivia Chow, who introduced a motion calling on the government to allow Glass and others to stay, said: \"The government had to listen, even though they didn't want to in the beginning,\" she said. \"Canadian values haven't changed that much in terms of we are a peaceful country and we want to allow people that would be deported to jail to stay in Canada.\"But the citizenship and immigration minister, Diane Finlay, said Stephen Harper's administration would not be swayed by emotional pleas. \"The emotion in the House does not change the law in the country.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Canada", "Iraq", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US army deserter faces expulsion from Canada"},{"date": "2008-04-11T08:15:46Z", "country": "canada", "content": "On October 8 1973, the French director Fran\u00e7ois Truffaut sat down in his suite at the Beverly Hills Hotel and scribbled a note: \"Cher Monsieur ... What you are doing is unique in the world and unique in the history of film. I had tears in my eyes watching your films.\" The object of this knee-trembling tribute was Norman McLaren, a lanky, 59-year-old Scot with an outsized quiff and chalky fingers. McLaren was also, for a while, the second most famous animator in the world, after Walt Disney. Nowadays, though, McLaren is virtually unknown outside art-school studios, but a stage show that reaches Stirling this week should revitalise the reputation of one of the most original artists that modern Britain has produced.The show - called Norman - is presented by 4Dart, a company based in Montreal, where McLaren spent 43 years of his working life under the benign wing of the National Film Board of Canada. He produced 50 short films that won 75 awards (including an Oscar), and earned their creator 203 decorations. This is some achievement for the son of a Stirling interior decorator. \"At last, something new in the world of drawing,\" Picasso exclaimed after viewing two of McLaren's films. The chipper Scot barely returned the compliment. \"This stimulated me no end,\" he acknowledged to his parents in a 1946 letter preserved by his nephews, before adding, \"even tho' [Picasso] is an old man now and of a school that is out of date.\"McLaren, who became a Canadian in 1952, never quite cared which school he belonged to. Born two decades after the invention of cinema, he flung himself - after a false start in drawing and interior design at Glasgow School of Art - into all the possibilities offered by the new medium. He satirised arms traders (Hell Unltd, 1936), crafted exquisite slo-mo ballet sequences (Pas de Deux, 1968), devised 3D pictures, drew, painted and scratched on blank film to produce extraordinary, kilometre-long ribbons of surreal and abstract spectacle. He manipulated the films' soundstrip with pins and paintbrushes to generate an early form of electronic music (Mosaic, Lines Vertical and Lines Horizontal, all from the 1960s). He invented the travelling zoom that allowed viewers to sink further and further \"into\" the screen (C'Est l'Aviron, 1944), and lived to see Stanley Kubrick adopt it for the closing sequence of 2001: A Space Odyssey. He was at various times a communist, a pacifist, a minimalist, a comic and a romantic, and always a hard taskmaster: at 24 frames per second, McLaren once declared (only half-jokingly) that he must have sketched over 50bn images in his career.Despite 70 years of construction in Stirling, it was still possible last week to see a snow-capped Ben More and the western Grampians from the upstairs bedroom of McLaren's former sandstone home in Albert Place. \"I looked out windows and watched clouds roll across the hills,\" he told a Canadian interviewer, recalling his childhood. \"The play of light on hills continued to affect me very much.\" That memory led him to the brain- and hand-numbing practice of modulating his pastel backdrops with thousands of subtle chalk strokes.McLaren, who died in 1987, was proudest of Neighbours (1952), a pixelated anti-war parable that, remarkably, won an Academy award in 1953. His greatest gift to us, though, may be the music video. His short, brilliantly syncopated compositions of colour, form, movement and music (of Ravi Shankar, Oscar Peterson, Pete Seeger and others) prefigure much of what we see today.Several of McLaren's films can be seen on YouTube. Alternately, you can buy The Master's Collection, a box set of seven DVDs issued two years ago by the NFBC, which has also named its Quebec headquarters building after him. Stirling, so far, has been more restrained: there is a 90-word plaque at the town museum, and a McLaren art prize at his former high school.\u00b7 Norman is at the MacRobert Arts Centre, Stirling, April 17-19, and the Theatre Royal, Brighton, May 6-10", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "The Walt Disney we lost to Canada"},{"date": "2008-05-23T14:56:27Z", "country": "canada", "content": "More Washington chinook would be coming home to spawn under proposed changes to a US-Canadian salmon treaty announced yesterday.The move, if approved by the two governments, could give a boost to the flagging fortunes of chinook runs in Puget Sound and the Columbia River, now protected under the endangered species act.But it will come at a price to the fishing industries in Canada and Alaska, which will have to forgo catching as many as 100,000 of the prized fish every year so they can reach their home rivers.Despite those cuts, described as painful by Alaskan and Canadian representatives, there appears to be broad governmental support for changes to a treaty that, in the past, has triggered bitter cross-border feuds.\"My hat goes off to our Canadian colleagues who saw this, as we did, as an opportunity to take a concerted effort forward on conservation,\" said Washington governor Christine Gregoire.The changes, hammered out over a year and a half by US and Canadian representatives on the Pacific Salmon Commission, would mean a 15% cut in chinook caught in southeast Alaska compared to what's allowed today, and a 30% cut off the west coast of Vancouver Island.That's expected to translate into more fish returning to Washington, because many of those chinook, particularly the ones off Vancouver Island, spawn in Puget Sound rivers and the Columbia River.\"With this agreement, we make a substantial down payment in our efforts to return Washington's weak, wild chinook-salmon populations back to sustainable levels,\" said Jeff Koenings, director of the state's department of fish and wildlife, and a lead US negotiator.The new terms under the treaty still must be reviewed by the two national governments, and would need their approval. Congress wouldn't need to ratify the changes, because they don't amend the actual treaty. But the deal hinges on millions in funding from Congress.The proposed changes won endorsements from Northwest tribes with fishing rights, and Washington commercial fishermen with a stake in the fate of chinook runs.Commercial fishermen here are coping with salmon fisheries that are closed off much of the Oregon and California coasts, and pared back in Washington.With fewer chinook caught to the north \"we might be able to maintain a skeleton fishery down here while the wild [chinook] stocks are recovering,\" said Doug Fricke, president of the Washington Trollers Association. Troll fishing, the most common technique for commercial chinook fishing, relies on long fishing lines with multiple hooks pulled behind a boat.But farther north, fishermen were much less enthusiastic.Dale Kelley, of the Alaska Trollers Association, said the cuts in Alaskan fishing were just a bargaining chip, traded so the Canadians would agree to less fishing off Vancouver Island.But the real source of the salmon's plight, she said, lies with habitat destruction in places such as Puget Sound.\"The people that do not want to gin up political will to deal with that problem just got a free pass,\" she said.In Canada, negotiator Gerry Kristianson, who sits on the Pacific Salmon Commission and represented sport-fishing interests, said he supported the deal partly because the US was willing to cut Alaskan fishing levels in return for the Canadian cuts.But, he said: \"It obviously imposes a significant amount of pain on the west coast of Vancouver Island.\"The pain could be eased by a $30m payment the US would make to Canada under the new arrangement.Meanwhile, a lead attorney for fish conservation groups questioned the deal's benefits. While it's good to reduce chinook fishing off Vancouver Island, it's not clear there's scientific evidence that a 30% reduction is the right one, said Svend Brandt-Erichsen.Brandt-Erichsen, a Seattle attorney, represents conservation groups that sued over the existing version of the Pacific Salmon Treaty. They charged that as many as 88% of the chinook caught off Vancouver Island's west coast came from US rivers.So far they have lost those suits, but several are on appeal.Still, the deal is enjoying support from government officials in Canada, Washington and even Alaska.\"I can assure you that people in Alaska are not thrilled with the way that it came out. But the fact that we acquiesced I think shows the way we are willing to act as partners in this shared resource,\" said Dave Bedford, of the Alaska's department of fish and game, who represented the state in the negotiations.That's a stark contrast to the past, when treaty talks triggered fiery rhetoric, protests and diplomatic sabre rattling between the US and Canada.At the heart of the problem are salmon that defy political boundaries, spawning in one country's rivers, then migrating into ocean controlled by another.Canadians in the past have complained that Alaskan fishermen catch too many fish bound for Canadian rivers, while US officials objected that Canadian fishermen haul in too many salmon bound for US waters.In the 1990s, the last time the treaty was renegotiated, tempers grew so hot that Canadian fishermen blockaded an Alaska ferry terminal for days, and Canadian authorities seized several US fishing boats in Canadian waters.Since then, however, pressure to deal with dwindling chinook runs has mounted. In 1999, Puget Sound chinook were listed under the endangered species act, joining Columbia River chinook that continue to struggle. Canadians also have faced problems with some salmon runs.That growing recognition of the common threat to salmon helped drive the negotiations, said Koenings.It was also helpful that the major sticking point from the last round - the divvying up of sockeye salmon - was left to a separate set of negotiations. The previous sockeye deal is set to expire in two years.", "tags": ["Fishing", "US news", "Canada", "Environment", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US and Canada reach tentative agreement on salmon fishing"},{"date": "2008-06-24T11:44:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A report by Transparency International (TI) criticised the UK for \"lagging\" behind other countries in enforcing the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development's 2007 Anti-Bribery Convention. But the UK was not the only country to come under fire.The report found that there was \"little or no enforcement\" of the convention by more than half of OECD governments (18 out of 34).While the UK was singled out for its decision to halt the investigation into BAE Systems, another of the largest exporters in the OECD, Japan, was also described as \"lagging\" in enforcement. The report said: \"There is no centralised national office or unit for foreign bribery enforcement in Japan.\"TI recommended that Japan \"enact an independent law specifically regulating the offence of foreign bribery\". It said the country should \"send a strong signal that they are seriously pursuing prosecutions\".The UK and Japan were two of three G7 countries \"showing a lack of sufficient commitment\". The third was Canada.TI said Canada had an \"inadequate definition of foreign bribery\". It recommended \"greater efforts within government agencies involved in foreign countries or with foreign trade initiatives to report up the line and ultimately to enforcement agencies about allegations of bribery\".Although Italy was included in the countries showing \"significant enforcement\" TI said \"the current situation [in Italy] is uncertain\".The full list of countries showing little or no enforcement was: Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Turkey and the United Kingdom.TI said the strongest performers in enforcement were the same as last year, namely France, Germany and the US, which are all among the largest exporters. The US was praised for allowing the greatest access to information and for the number of prosecutions and investigations it had pursued. \"In 2007, the US Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) launched a record number of investigations, continuing a six-year trend. At the same time, penalties and fines have also grown dramatically,\" the report said. In Germany there were more than 43 prosecutions and over 88 pending investigations, including more than 200 since 2001, according to TI. The report highlighted a fine of \u20ac201m (\u00a3159m) imposed on Siemens in October 2007 in connection with charges involving bribery in Nigeria, Russia and Libya. In France, companies reportedly under investigation include Halliburton, Total SA and Alstom.Argentina and Australia were the only two newcomers to the \"significant enforcement\" category.The full list of countries showing \"significant enforcement\" is: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States.", "tags": ["Arms trade", "The BAE files", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Anti-corruption: Canada, Japan and Ireland among those also under fire"},{"date": "2008-06-20T18:01:05Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Even on a bright, breezy summer's day, there is something uninviting about Savage Road. Its single lane track runs straight as an arrow before stopping at the water's edge on Westham Island, 15 miles from downtown Vancouver. At one end, a farm shop offers honey, fresh eggs and, incongruously, prawns. Nearby is a rod and gun club. Beyond the flattened delta landscape, mountains shimmer on the horizon. At the far end of Savage Road stands a boatyard. Hulking pieces of rusted machinery lie close to a concrete ramp leading to the water. It was here on Monday that the couple that owns the yard found something not entirely unexpected in the water: a severed human foot.\"We were just walking out in the morning, when we saw a shoe floating in the water, right there,\" the man, who preferred not to give his name, recounted two days later. \"We thought: Oh no, there's another one. Any time you see a shoe floating in the water, you kind of dread what you're going to find.\"\"We flipped it over with a stick and saw it was all yellow inside,\" said the man. \"You could see there was a foot in there. It was pretty nasty. And it stank.\"The man pointed across the water to a radio tower on another island, perhaps a mile away.\"That's where they found the one last week,\" he said.The two human feet encased in training shoes are merely the latest chapters in a whodunit that has the locals in this fishing and ferrying community buzzing. Five human feet have washed up on the island coastline around Vancouver since August last year, including two in the last four weeks. All but the one on Westham Island have been right feet; all but one appear to have been male and all have been wearing trainers - Reeboks, Nikes and Adidas. The first four were all size 12.The most recent find made front page news in Canada: \"The mystery of the feet\", was the Vancouver Sun's take on the story, while the normally staid National Post tried \"British Columbia's sixth foot of separation\", following it up with the quizzical, \"Why is it always feet?\" The Province, a somewhat racier local tabloid, took a more optimistic slant: \"Sixth foot raises hopes,\" it proclaimed.But the most recent foot turned out not to be human at all. A prankster had stuffed an animal paw into a trainer and planted it on the beach. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police were not amused.\"Who ever is responsible for this took the time to ensure that the remains were set up to closely resemble human remains,\" said inspector Brendan FitzPatrick. \"Many families with missing loved ones are closely watching and wondering if it is their loved one who has been found. The insensitivity shown to the families and the victims involved is unbelievable.\"One of the first on the scene at Campbell River was Kirsten Stevens, whose brother was one of five men who died when their seaplane crashed three years ago just minutes away from the site. Her brother's remains were the only ones found.\"We are so frustrated,\" she told the Globe and Mail. \"This is the same spit where the plane took off from. It's a constant reminder of the lack of closure.\"DNA profiles of the first three feet, found last year, do not match any missing-person cases, according to the coroner's office.While the evidence has been gathered, there are few clues to the origin of the five feet.\"The big picture is that there are body parts washing up all over the place all the time,\" said Curtis Ebbesmeyer, a retired oceanographer-turned-beachcomber who is writing a book about flotsam and jetsam to be published next year titled The Floating World.But this, he admits, is different. \"I've never come across a time when we've had five of one kind at one time. It's highly unusual.\"Ebbesmeyer got his start in the world of flotsam thanks, coincidentally, to Nike shoes. His interest in tracing the movements of ocean-born objects was piqued by the loss in 1990 of 80,000 Nike shoes when five containers rolled off a ship in heavy waters off Alaska. But shoes with feet in them are a different matter.\"The shoe is going to protect the foot pretty well,\" Ebbesmeyer said. \"Most shoes float, and sneakers tend to float sole up, so that would protect them from birds.\"Theories about the origins of the feet abound. Some suggest that they belong to victims of the 2004 Asian tsunami, or that they may be from the victims of maritime or air accidents. Others point to the large numbers of missing people in British Columbia. According to police there were 2,371 people listed as missing in the province at the end of May, with gang-related crime, drugs and homelessness all contributing to the problem. The exploits of Vancouver area pig farmer and convicted murderer Robert Pickton loom large. Pickton was convicted last year of the murder of six women, and according to the prosecution at his trial confessed to the murder of 43 others.The suggestion that there may be a criminal element connected with the appearance of so many feet is bolstered by the conclusion of Ebbesmeyer and other oceanographers that the feet have most probably been born down the Fraser River - which flows from the Rocky Mountains before reaching the Pacific Ocean at Vancouver - swelled by the spring snowmelt.\"This is such a highly improbable situation it begs the question of foul play,\" said Ebbesmeyer.The police are refusing to speculate.\"It is a unique situation but that doesn't mean there is a link between them all,\" said Delta police spokeswoman Sharlene Brooks. \"Our forensic investigation will help us identify them, then hopefully we can establish the circumstances of death and determine if this was accidental or a criminal act. We're treating it as a criminal investigation until we have reached that determination. That's the prudent thing to do. We'd do that regardless of whether it was a foot.\" Back at Westham Island, the man who found foot number five has few doubts about its origin.\"This is coming down from the river, no question about it,\" he said. \"There's someone doing this all right. Think about it, if they tied a chain around someone's ankle and threw them overboard, the foot would just pop off. That could explain it. Maybe they got a lot of bodies stored up in a container and they got washed out. We don't know. There's a lot of stuff goes on over there,\" he added, nodding toward the city.One person's misfortune, however, did bring him some reward.\"This is private property you're on,\" he said. \"We've had just about everything here the last couple of days, helicopters, boats, TV. We even took a photograph and sold it to the TV for $800. If they can afford to fly people around the world to look at this, there must be some money for a photograph.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mystery lingers as five human feet wash ashore off Vancouver in British Columbia, Canada"},{"date": "2008-06-16T15:15:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Is the mark of a good festival the feeling at the end that you wished you'd caught more bands? In the instance of North By Northeast, that meant Permanent Bastards, Whiteboy Slim, Calm Down It's Monday, Yukon Cigar and Shit La Merde, that last a nod to Canada's multilingualism. Not that there seemed to be a particular buzz about any of these at NXNE, but an intriguing name is as good as any come-on when faced with over 400 acts in the course of three nights.Could NXNE be the new South By Southwest? Every year what seems like the entire British music industry decamps to Austin, Texas, for SXSW and the search for the latest breakthrough bands. But given that Main Street on Saturday night could well be mistaken for Camden Town come chucking out time, what hope is there for anyone to discover something truly new? And for anyone wanting to demonstrate that they're ahead of the curve, what could be better than disappearing to NXNE in Toronto instead?In the end, it didn't prove quite as easy as that. In Austin, it's hard to escape the festival whereas in Toronto at the weekend, it was sometimes hard to find the action. Stumbling along Queen Street West on Friday night, there was a NXNE-participating bar or club every couple of hundred yards, but there weren't crowds spilling into the street or queues forming outside the hottest venues - and this despite the fact that a three-day wristband guaranteeing entry to every gig was a snip at $29. Plenty of Torontons to whom this correspondent spoke seemed unaware that there even was a music festival happening in the city. And that's partly, alas, because no-one could plausibly argue that the NXNE line-up represents the bleeding edge. Top-line speakers at the conference that complements the live action included Thomas Dolby, Hugh Cornwall from the Stranglers and Radio 2's Whispering Bob Harris. Perhaps the most famous act playing the festival was Evan Dando.It would help, if NXNE does want to emulate the pulling-power of its Texan inspiration, if a Canadian act like Arcade Fire could be roped in to feature.Set against that, there was the promise that the new Arcade Fire might be discovered. Certainly those happy clappy pop tarts (just joking) were the band most often cited as a reference point by others. The woman in the cinema queue who said that it was essential we see Hey Rosetta! on Saturday night told us that they were just like Win Butler and co. Well, they do come from St. John's, Newfoundland, they've got a fiddle and cello thing going on and the crowd packed into the Legendary Horseshoe Tavern on West Queen was keen. But of acts in that vein, I preferred David Martel and his band (the Friendships?) at the Hideout the night before; outside, the rain came down in sheets, while he captured something occasionally close to magical.Who else? At Reverb on the Friday, I was waiting to catch Southend's finest, These New Puritans, but caught a band called People In Planes first. Now, whether it was the Moosehead talking (beer, that is), or whether it's a second sign of a good festival... but while their brand of melodic rock wouldn't normally be my thing, they put on an euphoric show and left me wanting to track down their latest CD. And then of all places, it turns out they're from Wales.Nothing could, however top the over-the-top Semi-Precious Weapons. Friends in New York, where the band (could only) come from had warned me that they might have the new Darkness on their bands. Now that of course is a mixed blessing. But frontman Justin (see that comparison again?) finally had the crowd lapping him up, very almost literally. And then touchingly he stayed behind to sell some merchadise, claiming that one of the bands at NXNE get paid to play. Never mind, because plenty of Toronto's hot young things will now be showing off new 'I Can't Pay My Rent But I'm Fucking Gorgeous' bags.There was plenty more, too, some of it quickly forgotten, some of it lost to haphazard note-taking. Venues lured us in through the strength of their names, too. Bu alas, the Bovine Sex Club let us down. The Real McKenzies playing there on Friday night were billed as 'handsome, well-dressed young men who play Celti-punk with lots of bagpipes'. But it was worse than that because the first part of that tag could be investigated by the Trades Description bods.Otherwise, there was also a small film festival running by day. Do check out Tricia Todd's Agile, Mobile, Hostile if you get the chance - a documentary looking at a year in the life of rap forefather Andre Williams that is by turns harrowing and highly entertaining. Also, running concurrently with NXNE was the city's highbrow Luminato festival, staging gigs and art events, including an exhibition of recent paintings by Joni Mitchell called Green Flag Song. Now, she might be Canadian, and Canadians are the politest people on earth. So let's not say it sucked big time. Nitin Sawhney was also in town for Luminato, and played a live DJ set on Saturday night at Revival on College Street to a couple of thousand fans. By this stage, the Moosehead was really doing its thing, but I spoke to him after it, and I'm pretty sure he said he was only dimly aware of NXNE. So there's room for improvement, even if at the same time, Toronto proved a fine place to party.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Festivals", "SXSW"], "title": "Is NXNE the new SXSW?"},{"date": "2008-06-10T17:28:42Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Australia Two leading Australian scholars have been appointed to the prized annual chair of Australian studies at Harvard University for 2009. It is the first time since the chair was endowed in 1976 that more than one chair has been appointed.The University of Sydney's associate professor, Alison Bashford, and the University of Adelaide's Prof Nicholas Jose will simultaneously take up the role from September 2009 - Prof Bashford in Harvard's department of the history of science, and Prof Jose in Harvard's department of English.The visiting professorship was first established by a gift from the Australian government to Harvard in commemoration of America's bicentennial. Famous past post-holders have included Manning Clark, Gough Whitlam and Geoffrey Blainey.Australia Bond University has been collaborating with the Commonwealth secretariat since early 2007 to strengthen public sector capacities in the design and delivery of public-private partnerships. This month, with the Asian Development Bank, they brought together senior government officials from developing Pacific nations to discuss improved cost savings and efficiency in public service delivery through public-private partnerships. Last year officials from the Asian and southern African development regions took part in the programme.Canada The Canadian government has appointed Mount Allison University president and vice-chancellor Dr Robert Campbell to chair a strategic review of the Canada Post Corporation. Campbell has studied postal systems around the world and is currently completing a study on the Universal Post Union.Singapore Nanyang Technological University (NTU) has officially launched its Nanyang Environment and Water Research Institute (NEWRI) as part of a drive to make the state a global hub for the environment and water industry.The institute is an \"ecosystem\" of research groups, centres and institutes that provides a contiguous value chain from education and research through translation, development and application. It will provide a coordinated platform for NTU researchers and other Singaporean and international leaders to develop cutting edge technologies and applications, and to provide postgraduate training to help build a critical pool of world-class technical manpower and researchers for the industry.South Africa Derrick Swartz has been inaugurated as vice-chancellor of the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University in the Eastern Cape. In his inaugural speech he committed the university to fulfilling its obligation to play its part in the continuing transformation process as a multicultural institution.Zimbabwe Prof Lindela Rowland Ndlovu, vice-chancellor of the National University of Science and Technology (NUST) in Bulawayo, was awarded the 2007 South African Society of Animal Sciences gold medal for research in recognition of his research in animal sciences.", "tags": ["Commonwealth universities", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Commonwealth universities news in brief"},{"date": "2008-06-10T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A former US national guardsman will learn next month whether he can remain in Canada, where he has sought refuge from military service in Iraq.If a deportation order against him is not lifted, Corey Glass will become the first US army deserter to be repatriated from Canada to the US. Once home, he could face anything from a dishonourable discharge to time in a military prison. The former soldier was initially ordered to leave the country by tomorrow, but his departure date was extended yesterday to July 10, after an appeal by his lawyer was approved. He said: \"I feel like things are maybe going to turn around for the best. People are working really hard on this.\"Glass is the most visible face of a movement that pits Canada's humanitarian tradition of accepting asylum seekers and refugees against the country's conservative government.He came to Canada in August 2006. He had joined the national guard in 2002, hoping to carry out humanitarian and disaster relief work, but was instead deployed to Iraq in 2005 to work as a military intelligence officer north of Baghdad.After telling his commanding officer that he couldn't continue fighting in a war he didn't believe in, Glass was sent home for two weeks. But instead of rejoining his unit, Glass deserted, arriving eight months later in Toronto at a centre for war resisters run by a 63-year-old who went to Canada from the US to escape the Vietnam war draft.Last week, Canada's House of Commons passed a non-binding resolution urging the government to allow deserters - or war resisters as many prefer to be called - to stay. The resolution was inspired by the plight of Glass and about 40 others who have applied for refugee status. There are thought to be 200 deserters from the US military living in Canada.But the government argues that Glass and the others did not exhaust legal alternatives in the US and have not made a case that they face persecution should they return home. It has also argued that those fleeing to Canada now are in a different situation to those who came during the Vietnam war. \"Those coming to Canada now volunteered for military service,\" said citizenship and immigration spokesperson Danielle Norris.But Glass argues that he was not aware he was volunteering to fight in a war. \"When I joined the national guard, they told me the only way I would be in combat was if there were troops occupying the US,\" he said. \"I signed up to ... do humanitarian work, filling sandbags if there was a hurricane ... I should have been in New Orleans, not Iraq.\"Opposition MP Olivia Chow, who introduced a motion calling on the government to allow Glass and others to stay, said: \"The government had to listen, even though they didn't want to in the beginning,\" she said. \"Canadian values haven't changed that much in terms of we are a peaceful country and we want to allow people that would be deported to jail to stay in Canada.\"But the citizenship and immigration minister, Diane Finlay, said Stephen Harper's administration would not be swayed by emotional pleas. \"The emotion in the House does not change the law in the country.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Canada", "Iraq", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US army deserter faces expulsion from Canada"},{"date": "2008-04-11T08:15:46Z", "country": "canada", "content": "On October 8 1973, the French director Fran\u00e7ois Truffaut sat down in his suite at the Beverly Hills Hotel and scribbled a note: \"Cher Monsieur ... What you are doing is unique in the world and unique in the history of film. I had tears in my eyes watching your films.\" The object of this knee-trembling tribute was Norman McLaren, a lanky, 59-year-old Scot with an outsized quiff and chalky fingers. McLaren was also, for a while, the second most famous animator in the world, after Walt Disney. Nowadays, though, McLaren is virtually unknown outside art-school studios, but a stage show that reaches Stirling this week should revitalise the reputation of one of the most original artists that modern Britain has produced.The show - called Norman - is presented by 4Dart, a company based in Montreal, where McLaren spent 43 years of his working life under the benign wing of the National Film Board of Canada. He produced 50 short films that won 75 awards (including an Oscar), and earned their creator 203 decorations. This is some achievement for the son of a Stirling interior decorator. \"At last, something new in the world of drawing,\" Picasso exclaimed after viewing two of McLaren's films. The chipper Scot barely returned the compliment. \"This stimulated me no end,\" he acknowledged to his parents in a 1946 letter preserved by his nephews, before adding, \"even tho' [Picasso] is an old man now and of a school that is out of date.\"McLaren, who became a Canadian in 1952, never quite cared which school he belonged to. Born two decades after the invention of cinema, he flung himself - after a false start in drawing and interior design at Glasgow School of Art - into all the possibilities offered by the new medium. He satirised arms traders (Hell Unltd, 1936), crafted exquisite slo-mo ballet sequences (Pas de Deux, 1968), devised 3D pictures, drew, painted and scratched on blank film to produce extraordinary, kilometre-long ribbons of surreal and abstract spectacle. He manipulated the films' soundstrip with pins and paintbrushes to generate an early form of electronic music (Mosaic, Lines Vertical and Lines Horizontal, all from the 1960s). He invented the travelling zoom that allowed viewers to sink further and further \"into\" the screen (C'Est l'Aviron, 1944), and lived to see Stanley Kubrick adopt it for the closing sequence of 2001: A Space Odyssey. He was at various times a communist, a pacifist, a minimalist, a comic and a romantic, and always a hard taskmaster: at 24 frames per second, McLaren once declared (only half-jokingly) that he must have sketched over 50bn images in his career.Despite 70 years of construction in Stirling, it was still possible last week to see a snow-capped Ben More and the western Grampians from the upstairs bedroom of McLaren's former sandstone home in Albert Place. \"I looked out windows and watched clouds roll across the hills,\" he told a Canadian interviewer, recalling his childhood. \"The play of light on hills continued to affect me very much.\" That memory led him to the brain- and hand-numbing practice of modulating his pastel backdrops with thousands of subtle chalk strokes.McLaren, who died in 1987, was proudest of Neighbours (1952), a pixelated anti-war parable that, remarkably, won an Academy award in 1953. His greatest gift to us, though, may be the music video. His short, brilliantly syncopated compositions of colour, form, movement and music (of Ravi Shankar, Oscar Peterson, Pete Seeger and others) prefigure much of what we see today.Several of McLaren's films can be seen on YouTube. Alternately, you can buy The Master's Collection, a box set of seven DVDs issued two years ago by the NFBC, which has also named its Quebec headquarters building after him. Stirling, so far, has been more restrained: there is a 90-word plaque at the town museum, and a McLaren art prize at his former high school.\u00b7 Norman is at the MacRobert Arts Centre, Stirling, April 17-19, and the Theatre Royal, Brighton, May 6-10", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "The Walt Disney we lost to Canada"},{"date": "2008-05-23T14:56:27Z", "country": "canada", "content": "More Washington chinook would be coming home to spawn under proposed changes to a US-Canadian salmon treaty announced yesterday.The move, if approved by the two governments, could give a boost to the flagging fortunes of chinook runs in Puget Sound and the Columbia River, now protected under the endangered species act.But it will come at a price to the fishing industries in Canada and Alaska, which will have to forgo catching as many as 100,000 of the prized fish every year so they can reach their home rivers.Despite those cuts, described as painful by Alaskan and Canadian representatives, there appears to be broad governmental support for changes to a treaty that, in the past, has triggered bitter cross-border feuds.\"My hat goes off to our Canadian colleagues who saw this, as we did, as an opportunity to take a concerted effort forward on conservation,\" said Washington governor Christine Gregoire.The changes, hammered out over a year and a half by US and Canadian representatives on the Pacific Salmon Commission, would mean a 15% cut in chinook caught in southeast Alaska compared to what's allowed today, and a 30% cut off the west coast of Vancouver Island.That's expected to translate into more fish returning to Washington, because many of those chinook, particularly the ones off Vancouver Island, spawn in Puget Sound rivers and the Columbia River.\"With this agreement, we make a substantial down payment in our efforts to return Washington's weak, wild chinook-salmon populations back to sustainable levels,\" said Jeff Koenings, director of the state's department of fish and wildlife, and a lead US negotiator.The new terms under the treaty still must be reviewed by the two national governments, and would need their approval. Congress wouldn't need to ratify the changes, because they don't amend the actual treaty. But the deal hinges on millions in funding from Congress.The proposed changes won endorsements from Northwest tribes with fishing rights, and Washington commercial fishermen with a stake in the fate of chinook runs.Commercial fishermen here are coping with salmon fisheries that are closed off much of the Oregon and California coasts, and pared back in Washington.With fewer chinook caught to the north \"we might be able to maintain a skeleton fishery down here while the wild [chinook] stocks are recovering,\" said Doug Fricke, president of the Washington Trollers Association. Troll fishing, the most common technique for commercial chinook fishing, relies on long fishing lines with multiple hooks pulled behind a boat.But farther north, fishermen were much less enthusiastic.Dale Kelley, of the Alaska Trollers Association, said the cuts in Alaskan fishing were just a bargaining chip, traded so the Canadians would agree to less fishing off Vancouver Island.But the real source of the salmon's plight, she said, lies with habitat destruction in places such as Puget Sound.\"The people that do not want to gin up political will to deal with that problem just got a free pass,\" she said.In Canada, negotiator Gerry Kristianson, who sits on the Pacific Salmon Commission and represented sport-fishing interests, said he supported the deal partly because the US was willing to cut Alaskan fishing levels in return for the Canadian cuts.But, he said: \"It obviously imposes a significant amount of pain on the west coast of Vancouver Island.\"The pain could be eased by a $30m payment the US would make to Canada under the new arrangement.Meanwhile, a lead attorney for fish conservation groups questioned the deal's benefits. While it's good to reduce chinook fishing off Vancouver Island, it's not clear there's scientific evidence that a 30% reduction is the right one, said Svend Brandt-Erichsen.Brandt-Erichsen, a Seattle attorney, represents conservation groups that sued over the existing version of the Pacific Salmon Treaty. They charged that as many as 88% of the chinook caught off Vancouver Island's west coast came from US rivers.So far they have lost those suits, but several are on appeal.Still, the deal is enjoying support from government officials in Canada, Washington and even Alaska.\"I can assure you that people in Alaska are not thrilled with the way that it came out. But the fact that we acquiesced I think shows the way we are willing to act as partners in this shared resource,\" said Dave Bedford, of the Alaska's department of fish and game, who represented the state in the negotiations.That's a stark contrast to the past, when treaty talks triggered fiery rhetoric, protests and diplomatic sabre rattling between the US and Canada.At the heart of the problem are salmon that defy political boundaries, spawning in one country's rivers, then migrating into ocean controlled by another.Canadians in the past have complained that Alaskan fishermen catch too many fish bound for Canadian rivers, while US officials objected that Canadian fishermen haul in too many salmon bound for US waters.In the 1990s, the last time the treaty was renegotiated, tempers grew so hot that Canadian fishermen blockaded an Alaska ferry terminal for days, and Canadian authorities seized several US fishing boats in Canadian waters.Since then, however, pressure to deal with dwindling chinook runs has mounted. In 1999, Puget Sound chinook were listed under the endangered species act, joining Columbia River chinook that continue to struggle. Canadians also have faced problems with some salmon runs.That growing recognition of the common threat to salmon helped drive the negotiations, said Koenings.It was also helpful that the major sticking point from the last round - the divvying up of sockeye salmon - was left to a separate set of negotiations. The previous sockeye deal is set to expire in two years.", "tags": ["Fishing", "US news", "Canada", "Environment", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US and Canada reach tentative agreement on salmon fishing"},{"date": "2008-06-24T11:44:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A report by Transparency International (TI) criticised the UK for \"lagging\" behind other countries in enforcing the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development's 2007 Anti-Bribery Convention. But the UK was not the only country to come under fire.The report found that there was \"little or no enforcement\" of the convention by more than half of OECD governments (18 out of 34).While the UK was singled out for its decision to halt the investigation into BAE Systems, another of the largest exporters in the OECD, Japan, was also described as \"lagging\" in enforcement. The report said: \"There is no centralised national office or unit for foreign bribery enforcement in Japan.\"TI recommended that Japan \"enact an independent law specifically regulating the offence of foreign bribery\". It said the country should \"send a strong signal that they are seriously pursuing prosecutions\".The UK and Japan were two of three G7 countries \"showing a lack of sufficient commitment\". The third was Canada.TI said Canada had an \"inadequate definition of foreign bribery\". It recommended \"greater efforts within government agencies involved in foreign countries or with foreign trade initiatives to report up the line and ultimately to enforcement agencies about allegations of bribery\".Although Italy was included in the countries showing \"significant enforcement\" TI said \"the current situation [in Italy] is uncertain\".The full list of countries showing little or no enforcement was: Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Turkey and the United Kingdom.TI said the strongest performers in enforcement were the same as last year, namely France, Germany and the US, which are all among the largest exporters. The US was praised for allowing the greatest access to information and for the number of prosecutions and investigations it had pursued. \"In 2007, the US Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) launched a record number of investigations, continuing a six-year trend. At the same time, penalties and fines have also grown dramatically,\" the report said. In Germany there were more than 43 prosecutions and over 88 pending investigations, including more than 200 since 2001, according to TI. The report highlighted a fine of \u20ac201m (\u00a3159m) imposed on Siemens in October 2007 in connection with charges involving bribery in Nigeria, Russia and Libya. In France, companies reportedly under investigation include Halliburton, Total SA and Alstom.Argentina and Australia were the only two newcomers to the \"significant enforcement\" category.The full list of countries showing \"significant enforcement\" is: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States.", "tags": ["Arms trade", "The BAE files", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Anti-corruption: Canada, Japan and Ireland among those also under fire"},{"date": "2008-06-20T18:01:05Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Even on a bright, breezy summer's day, there is something uninviting about Savage Road. Its single lane track runs straight as an arrow before stopping at the water's edge on Westham Island, 15 miles from downtown Vancouver. At one end, a farm shop offers honey, fresh eggs and, incongruously, prawns. Nearby is a rod and gun club. Beyond the flattened delta landscape, mountains shimmer on the horizon. At the far end of Savage Road stands a boatyard. Hulking pieces of rusted machinery lie close to a concrete ramp leading to the water. It was here on Monday that the couple that owns the yard found something not entirely unexpected in the water: a severed human foot.\"We were just walking out in the morning, when we saw a shoe floating in the water, right there,\" the man, who preferred not to give his name, recounted two days later. \"We thought: Oh no, there's another one. Any time you see a shoe floating in the water, you kind of dread what you're going to find.\"\"We flipped it over with a stick and saw it was all yellow inside,\" said the man. \"You could see there was a foot in there. It was pretty nasty. And it stank.\"The man pointed across the water to a radio tower on another island, perhaps a mile away.\"That's where they found the one last week,\" he said.The two human feet encased in training shoes are merely the latest chapters in a whodunit that has the locals in this fishing and ferrying community buzzing. Five human feet have washed up on the island coastline around Vancouver since August last year, including two in the last four weeks. All but the one on Westham Island have been right feet; all but one appear to have been male and all have been wearing trainers - Reeboks, Nikes and Adidas. The first four were all size 12.The most recent find made front page news in Canada: \"The mystery of the feet\", was the Vancouver Sun's take on the story, while the normally staid National Post tried \"British Columbia's sixth foot of separation\", following it up with the quizzical, \"Why is it always feet?\" The Province, a somewhat racier local tabloid, took a more optimistic slant: \"Sixth foot raises hopes,\" it proclaimed.But the most recent foot turned out not to be human at all. A prankster had stuffed an animal paw into a trainer and planted it on the beach. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police were not amused.\"Who ever is responsible for this took the time to ensure that the remains were set up to closely resemble human remains,\" said inspector Brendan FitzPatrick. \"Many families with missing loved ones are closely watching and wondering if it is their loved one who has been found. The insensitivity shown to the families and the victims involved is unbelievable.\"One of the first on the scene at Campbell River was Kirsten Stevens, whose brother was one of five men who died when their seaplane crashed three years ago just minutes away from the site. Her brother's remains were the only ones found.\"We are so frustrated,\" she told the Globe and Mail. \"This is the same spit where the plane took off from. It's a constant reminder of the lack of closure.\"DNA profiles of the first three feet, found last year, do not match any missing-person cases, according to the coroner's office.While the evidence has been gathered, there are few clues to the origin of the five feet.\"The big picture is that there are body parts washing up all over the place all the time,\" said Curtis Ebbesmeyer, a retired oceanographer-turned-beachcomber who is writing a book about flotsam and jetsam to be published next year titled The Floating World.But this, he admits, is different. \"I've never come across a time when we've had five of one kind at one time. It's highly unusual.\"Ebbesmeyer got his start in the world of flotsam thanks, coincidentally, to Nike shoes. His interest in tracing the movements of ocean-born objects was piqued by the loss in 1990 of 80,000 Nike shoes when five containers rolled off a ship in heavy waters off Alaska. But shoes with feet in them are a different matter.\"The shoe is going to protect the foot pretty well,\" Ebbesmeyer said. \"Most shoes float, and sneakers tend to float sole up, so that would protect them from birds.\"Theories about the origins of the feet abound. Some suggest that they belong to victims of the 2004 Asian tsunami, or that they may be from the victims of maritime or air accidents. Others point to the large numbers of missing people in British Columbia. According to police there were 2,371 people listed as missing in the province at the end of May, with gang-related crime, drugs and homelessness all contributing to the problem. The exploits of Vancouver area pig farmer and convicted murderer Robert Pickton loom large. Pickton was convicted last year of the murder of six women, and according to the prosecution at his trial confessed to the murder of 43 others.The suggestion that there may be a criminal element connected with the appearance of so many feet is bolstered by the conclusion of Ebbesmeyer and other oceanographers that the feet have most probably been born down the Fraser River - which flows from the Rocky Mountains before reaching the Pacific Ocean at Vancouver - swelled by the spring snowmelt.\"This is such a highly improbable situation it begs the question of foul play,\" said Ebbesmeyer.The police are refusing to speculate.\"It is a unique situation but that doesn't mean there is a link between them all,\" said Delta police spokeswoman Sharlene Brooks. \"Our forensic investigation will help us identify them, then hopefully we can establish the circumstances of death and determine if this was accidental or a criminal act. We're treating it as a criminal investigation until we have reached that determination. That's the prudent thing to do. We'd do that regardless of whether it was a foot.\" Back at Westham Island, the man who found foot number five has few doubts about its origin.\"This is coming down from the river, no question about it,\" he said. \"There's someone doing this all right. Think about it, if they tied a chain around someone's ankle and threw them overboard, the foot would just pop off. That could explain it. Maybe they got a lot of bodies stored up in a container and they got washed out. We don't know. There's a lot of stuff goes on over there,\" he added, nodding toward the city.One person's misfortune, however, did bring him some reward.\"This is private property you're on,\" he said. \"We've had just about everything here the last couple of days, helicopters, boats, TV. We even took a photograph and sold it to the TV for $800. If they can afford to fly people around the world to look at this, there must be some money for a photograph.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mystery lingers as five human feet wash ashore off Vancouver in British Columbia, Canada"},{"date": "2008-06-16T15:15:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Is the mark of a good festival the feeling at the end that you wished you'd caught more bands? In the instance of North By Northeast, that meant Permanent Bastards, Whiteboy Slim, Calm Down It's Monday, Yukon Cigar and Shit La Merde, that last a nod to Canada's multilingualism. Not that there seemed to be a particular buzz about any of these at NXNE, but an intriguing name is as good as any come-on when faced with over 400 acts in the course of three nights.Could NXNE be the new South By Southwest? Every year what seems like the entire British music industry decamps to Austin, Texas, for SXSW and the search for the latest breakthrough bands. But given that Main Street on Saturday night could well be mistaken for Camden Town come chucking out time, what hope is there for anyone to discover something truly new? And for anyone wanting to demonstrate that they're ahead of the curve, what could be better than disappearing to NXNE in Toronto instead?In the end, it didn't prove quite as easy as that. In Austin, it's hard to escape the festival whereas in Toronto at the weekend, it was sometimes hard to find the action. Stumbling along Queen Street West on Friday night, there was a NXNE-participating bar or club every couple of hundred yards, but there weren't crowds spilling into the street or queues forming outside the hottest venues - and this despite the fact that a three-day wristband guaranteeing entry to every gig was a snip at $29. Plenty of Torontons to whom this correspondent spoke seemed unaware that there even was a music festival happening in the city. And that's partly, alas, because no-one could plausibly argue that the NXNE line-up represents the bleeding edge. Top-line speakers at the conference that complements the live action included Thomas Dolby, Hugh Cornwall from the Stranglers and Radio 2's Whispering Bob Harris. Perhaps the most famous act playing the festival was Evan Dando.It would help, if NXNE does want to emulate the pulling-power of its Texan inspiration, if a Canadian act like Arcade Fire could be roped in to feature.Set against that, there was the promise that the new Arcade Fire might be discovered. Certainly those happy clappy pop tarts (just joking) were the band most often cited as a reference point by others. The woman in the cinema queue who said that it was essential we see Hey Rosetta! on Saturday night told us that they were just like Win Butler and co. Well, they do come from St. John's, Newfoundland, they've got a fiddle and cello thing going on and the crowd packed into the Legendary Horseshoe Tavern on West Queen was keen. But of acts in that vein, I preferred David Martel and his band (the Friendships?) at the Hideout the night before; outside, the rain came down in sheets, while he captured something occasionally close to magical.Who else? At Reverb on the Friday, I was waiting to catch Southend's finest, These New Puritans, but caught a band called People In Planes first. Now, whether it was the Moosehead talking (beer, that is), or whether it's a second sign of a good festival... but while their brand of melodic rock wouldn't normally be my thing, they put on an euphoric show and left me wanting to track down their latest CD. And then of all places, it turns out they're from Wales.Nothing could, however top the over-the-top Semi-Precious Weapons. Friends in New York, where the band (could only) come from had warned me that they might have the new Darkness on their bands. Now that of course is a mixed blessing. But frontman Justin (see that comparison again?) finally had the crowd lapping him up, very almost literally. And then touchingly he stayed behind to sell some merchadise, claiming that one of the bands at NXNE get paid to play. Never mind, because plenty of Toronto's hot young things will now be showing off new 'I Can't Pay My Rent But I'm Fucking Gorgeous' bags.There was plenty more, too, some of it quickly forgotten, some of it lost to haphazard note-taking. Venues lured us in through the strength of their names, too. Bu alas, the Bovine Sex Club let us down. The Real McKenzies playing there on Friday night were billed as 'handsome, well-dressed young men who play Celti-punk with lots of bagpipes'. But it was worse than that because the first part of that tag could be investigated by the Trades Description bods.Otherwise, there was also a small film festival running by day. Do check out Tricia Todd's Agile, Mobile, Hostile if you get the chance - a documentary looking at a year in the life of rap forefather Andre Williams that is by turns harrowing and highly entertaining. Also, running concurrently with NXNE was the city's highbrow Luminato festival, staging gigs and art events, including an exhibition of recent paintings by Joni Mitchell called Green Flag Song. Now, she might be Canadian, and Canadians are the politest people on earth. So let's not say it sucked big time. Nitin Sawhney was also in town for Luminato, and played a live DJ set on Saturday night at Revival on College Street to a couple of thousand fans. By this stage, the Moosehead was really doing its thing, but I spoke to him after it, and I'm pretty sure he said he was only dimly aware of NXNE. So there's room for improvement, even if at the same time, Toronto proved a fine place to party.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Festivals", "SXSW"], "title": "Is NXNE the new SXSW?"},{"date": "2008-06-10T17:28:42Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Australia Two leading Australian scholars have been appointed to the prized annual chair of Australian studies at Harvard University for 2009. It is the first time since the chair was endowed in 1976 that more than one chair has been appointed.The University of Sydney's associate professor, Alison Bashford, and the University of Adelaide's Prof Nicholas Jose will simultaneously take up the role from September 2009 - Prof Bashford in Harvard's department of the history of science, and Prof Jose in Harvard's department of English.The visiting professorship was first established by a gift from the Australian government to Harvard in commemoration of America's bicentennial. Famous past post-holders have included Manning Clark, Gough Whitlam and Geoffrey Blainey.Australia Bond University has been collaborating with the Commonwealth secretariat since early 2007 to strengthen public sector capacities in the design and delivery of public-private partnerships. This month, with the Asian Development Bank, they brought together senior government officials from developing Pacific nations to discuss improved cost savings and efficiency in public service delivery through public-private partnerships. Last year officials from the Asian and southern African development regions took part in the programme.Canada The Canadian government has appointed Mount Allison University president and vice-chancellor Dr Robert Campbell to chair a strategic review of the Canada Post Corporation. Campbell has studied postal systems around the world and is currently completing a study on the Universal Post Union.Singapore Nanyang Technological University (NTU) has officially launched its Nanyang Environment and Water Research Institute (NEWRI) as part of a drive to make the state a global hub for the environment and water industry.The institute is an \"ecosystem\" of research groups, centres and institutes that provides a contiguous value chain from education and research through translation, development and application. It will provide a coordinated platform for NTU researchers and other Singaporean and international leaders to develop cutting edge technologies and applications, and to provide postgraduate training to help build a critical pool of world-class technical manpower and researchers for the industry.South Africa Derrick Swartz has been inaugurated as vice-chancellor of the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University in the Eastern Cape. In his inaugural speech he committed the university to fulfilling its obligation to play its part in the continuing transformation process as a multicultural institution.Zimbabwe Prof Lindela Rowland Ndlovu, vice-chancellor of the National University of Science and Technology (NUST) in Bulawayo, was awarded the 2007 South African Society of Animal Sciences gold medal for research in recognition of his research in animal sciences.", "tags": ["Commonwealth universities", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Commonwealth universities news in brief"},{"date": "2008-06-20T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "One of the most common causes of death in Fiji is drowning, so teaching kids to swim is a life-saver. On this project, volunteers invoke a passion for swimming in primary and secondary school kids, coaching in PE lessons and after-school clubs, and living in a dormitory in Lautoka city.0845 121 1996, madventurer.com. Two weeks from \u00a3795pp inc full board and transport (exc flights).Based in Ulaanbaatar, your journalism internship in print, radio or TV will give you experience in a media environment that has flourished since the introduction of democracy in 1990. You might be asked to write a column in the English section of a national paper, front a radio chat show and gain experience behind the camera, directing or presenting the news.01903 708300, projects-abroad.co.uk, from \u00a31,195 per month inc full board and insurance (exc flights).After a four-week Spanish course, you'll be ready for a stint at Cordoba zoo, working with jaguars, pumas and other exotic animals. Accommodation is with a local host family or a house for volunteers. 0800 881 8888, globalexperience.com. Accommodation, course and project costs \u00a3895 for six weeks, and \u00a395 per additional week (exc flights).Get serious about science on the edge of the Arctic in the Mackenzie Mountain Barrens in Canada's Northwest Territories, where the permafrost is being depleted by climate change. Vast stores of carbon dioxide and methane will be released if the peat there thaws. Helpers monitor the permafrost and organic carbon stores, sampling trees and shrubs on hikes, and stay in a wilderness lodge. 01865 318 838, earthwatch.org/europe, \u00a33,195pp for 11 days starting July 22 (exc flights). Help shape the futures of disadvantaged Kenyan children, many of whom have been orphaned by Aids/HIV, in the coastal city of Mombasa. An estimated 30,000 street children live there, and you'll be helping to teach them school subjects, sports and crafts, and help with the running of the centres. 0800 011 1156, i-to-i.com, \u00a3575 for one week, \u00a3125 for additional weeks, inc homestay accommodation, or upgrade to a hotel for \u00a3275 per week. Flights extra.", "tags": ["Five best ...", "Gap year travel", "Working holidays", "Travel", "Mongolia holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Kenya holidays", "Canada holidays", "Gap years", "Education"], "title": "Five best ... gap year projects"},{"date": "2008-06-10T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A former US national guardsman will learn next month whether he can remain in Canada, where he has sought refuge from military service in Iraq.If a deportation order against him is not lifted, Corey Glass will become the first US army deserter to be repatriated from Canada to the US. Once home, he could face anything from a dishonourable discharge to time in a military prison. The former soldier was initially ordered to leave the country by tomorrow, but his departure date was extended yesterday to July 10, after an appeal by his lawyer was approved. He said: \"I feel like things are maybe going to turn around for the best. People are working really hard on this.\"Glass is the most visible face of a movement that pits Canada's humanitarian tradition of accepting asylum seekers and refugees against the country's conservative government.He came to Canada in August 2006. He had joined the national guard in 2002, hoping to carry out humanitarian and disaster relief work, but was instead deployed to Iraq in 2005 to work as a military intelligence officer north of Baghdad.After telling his commanding officer that he couldn't continue fighting in a war he didn't believe in, Glass was sent home for two weeks. But instead of rejoining his unit, Glass deserted, arriving eight months later in Toronto at a centre for war resisters run by a 63-year-old who went to Canada from the US to escape the Vietnam war draft.Last week, Canada's House of Commons passed a non-binding resolution urging the government to allow deserters - or war resisters as many prefer to be called - to stay. The resolution was inspired by the plight of Glass and about 40 others who have applied for refugee status. There are thought to be 200 deserters from the US military living in Canada.But the government argues that Glass and the others did not exhaust legal alternatives in the US and have not made a case that they face persecution should they return home. It has also argued that those fleeing to Canada now are in a different situation to those who came during the Vietnam war. \"Those coming to Canada now volunteered for military service,\" said citizenship and immigration spokesperson Danielle Norris.But Glass argues that he was not aware he was volunteering to fight in a war. \"When I joined the national guard, they told me the only way I would be in combat was if there were troops occupying the US,\" he said. \"I signed up to ... do humanitarian work, filling sandbags if there was a hurricane ... I should have been in New Orleans, not Iraq.\"Opposition MP Olivia Chow, who introduced a motion calling on the government to allow Glass and others to stay, said: \"The government had to listen, even though they didn't want to in the beginning,\" she said. \"Canadian values haven't changed that much in terms of we are a peaceful country and we want to allow people that would be deported to jail to stay in Canada.\"But the citizenship and immigration minister, Diane Finlay, said Stephen Harper's administration would not be swayed by emotional pleas. \"The emotion in the House does not change the law in the country.\"", "tags": ["US news", "Canada", "Iraq", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US army deserter faces expulsion from Canada"},{"date": "2008-04-11T08:15:46Z", "country": "canada", "content": "On October 8 1973, the French director Fran\u00e7ois Truffaut sat down in his suite at the Beverly Hills Hotel and scribbled a note: \"Cher Monsieur ... What you are doing is unique in the world and unique in the history of film. I had tears in my eyes watching your films.\" The object of this knee-trembling tribute was Norman McLaren, a lanky, 59-year-old Scot with an outsized quiff and chalky fingers. McLaren was also, for a while, the second most famous animator in the world, after Walt Disney. Nowadays, though, McLaren is virtually unknown outside art-school studios, but a stage show that reaches Stirling this week should revitalise the reputation of one of the most original artists that modern Britain has produced.The show - called Norman - is presented by 4Dart, a company based in Montreal, where McLaren spent 43 years of his working life under the benign wing of the National Film Board of Canada. He produced 50 short films that won 75 awards (including an Oscar), and earned their creator 203 decorations. This is some achievement for the son of a Stirling interior decorator. \"At last, something new in the world of drawing,\" Picasso exclaimed after viewing two of McLaren's films. The chipper Scot barely returned the compliment. \"This stimulated me no end,\" he acknowledged to his parents in a 1946 letter preserved by his nephews, before adding, \"even tho' [Picasso] is an old man now and of a school that is out of date.\"McLaren, who became a Canadian in 1952, never quite cared which school he belonged to. Born two decades after the invention of cinema, he flung himself - after a false start in drawing and interior design at Glasgow School of Art - into all the possibilities offered by the new medium. He satirised arms traders (Hell Unltd, 1936), crafted exquisite slo-mo ballet sequences (Pas de Deux, 1968), devised 3D pictures, drew, painted and scratched on blank film to produce extraordinary, kilometre-long ribbons of surreal and abstract spectacle. He manipulated the films' soundstrip with pins and paintbrushes to generate an early form of electronic music (Mosaic, Lines Vertical and Lines Horizontal, all from the 1960s). He invented the travelling zoom that allowed viewers to sink further and further \"into\" the screen (C'Est l'Aviron, 1944), and lived to see Stanley Kubrick adopt it for the closing sequence of 2001: A Space Odyssey. He was at various times a communist, a pacifist, a minimalist, a comic and a romantic, and always a hard taskmaster: at 24 frames per second, McLaren once declared (only half-jokingly) that he must have sketched over 50bn images in his career.Despite 70 years of construction in Stirling, it was still possible last week to see a snow-capped Ben More and the western Grampians from the upstairs bedroom of McLaren's former sandstone home in Albert Place. \"I looked out windows and watched clouds roll across the hills,\" he told a Canadian interviewer, recalling his childhood. \"The play of light on hills continued to affect me very much.\" That memory led him to the brain- and hand-numbing practice of modulating his pastel backdrops with thousands of subtle chalk strokes.McLaren, who died in 1987, was proudest of Neighbours (1952), a pixelated anti-war parable that, remarkably, won an Academy award in 1953. His greatest gift to us, though, may be the music video. His short, brilliantly syncopated compositions of colour, form, movement and music (of Ravi Shankar, Oscar Peterson, Pete Seeger and others) prefigure much of what we see today.Several of McLaren's films can be seen on YouTube. Alternately, you can buy The Master's Collection, a box set of seven DVDs issued two years ago by the NFBC, which has also named its Quebec headquarters building after him. Stirling, so far, has been more restrained: there is a 90-word plaque at the town museum, and a McLaren art prize at his former high school.\u00b7 Norman is at the MacRobert Arts Centre, Stirling, April 17-19, and the Theatre Royal, Brighton, May 6-10", "tags": ["Film", "Culture"], "title": "The Walt Disney we lost to Canada"},{"date": "2008-05-23T14:56:27Z", "country": "canada", "content": "More Washington chinook would be coming home to spawn under proposed changes to a US-Canadian salmon treaty announced yesterday.The move, if approved by the two governments, could give a boost to the flagging fortunes of chinook runs in Puget Sound and the Columbia River, now protected under the endangered species act.But it will come at a price to the fishing industries in Canada and Alaska, which will have to forgo catching as many as 100,000 of the prized fish every year so they can reach their home rivers.Despite those cuts, described as painful by Alaskan and Canadian representatives, there appears to be broad governmental support for changes to a treaty that, in the past, has triggered bitter cross-border feuds.\"My hat goes off to our Canadian colleagues who saw this, as we did, as an opportunity to take a concerted effort forward on conservation,\" said Washington governor Christine Gregoire.The changes, hammered out over a year and a half by US and Canadian representatives on the Pacific Salmon Commission, would mean a 15% cut in chinook caught in southeast Alaska compared to what's allowed today, and a 30% cut off the west coast of Vancouver Island.That's expected to translate into more fish returning to Washington, because many of those chinook, particularly the ones off Vancouver Island, spawn in Puget Sound rivers and the Columbia River.\"With this agreement, we make a substantial down payment in our efforts to return Washington's weak, wild chinook-salmon populations back to sustainable levels,\" said Jeff Koenings, director of the state's department of fish and wildlife, and a lead US negotiator.The new terms under the treaty still must be reviewed by the two national governments, and would need their approval. Congress wouldn't need to ratify the changes, because they don't amend the actual treaty. But the deal hinges on millions in funding from Congress.The proposed changes won endorsements from Northwest tribes with fishing rights, and Washington commercial fishermen with a stake in the fate of chinook runs.Commercial fishermen here are coping with salmon fisheries that are closed off much of the Oregon and California coasts, and pared back in Washington.With fewer chinook caught to the north \"we might be able to maintain a skeleton fishery down here while the wild [chinook] stocks are recovering,\" said Doug Fricke, president of the Washington Trollers Association. Troll fishing, the most common technique for commercial chinook fishing, relies on long fishing lines with multiple hooks pulled behind a boat.But farther north, fishermen were much less enthusiastic.Dale Kelley, of the Alaska Trollers Association, said the cuts in Alaskan fishing were just a bargaining chip, traded so the Canadians would agree to less fishing off Vancouver Island.But the real source of the salmon's plight, she said, lies with habitat destruction in places such as Puget Sound.\"The people that do not want to gin up political will to deal with that problem just got a free pass,\" she said.In Canada, negotiator Gerry Kristianson, who sits on the Pacific Salmon Commission and represented sport-fishing interests, said he supported the deal partly because the US was willing to cut Alaskan fishing levels in return for the Canadian cuts.But, he said: \"It obviously imposes a significant amount of pain on the west coast of Vancouver Island.\"The pain could be eased by a $30m payment the US would make to Canada under the new arrangement.Meanwhile, a lead attorney for fish conservation groups questioned the deal's benefits. While it's good to reduce chinook fishing off Vancouver Island, it's not clear there's scientific evidence that a 30% reduction is the right one, said Svend Brandt-Erichsen.Brandt-Erichsen, a Seattle attorney, represents conservation groups that sued over the existing version of the Pacific Salmon Treaty. They charged that as many as 88% of the chinook caught off Vancouver Island's west coast came from US rivers.So far they have lost those suits, but several are on appeal.Still, the deal is enjoying support from government officials in Canada, Washington and even Alaska.\"I can assure you that people in Alaska are not thrilled with the way that it came out. But the fact that we acquiesced I think shows the way we are willing to act as partners in this shared resource,\" said Dave Bedford, of the Alaska's department of fish and game, who represented the state in the negotiations.That's a stark contrast to the past, when treaty talks triggered fiery rhetoric, protests and diplomatic sabre rattling between the US and Canada.At the heart of the problem are salmon that defy political boundaries, spawning in one country's rivers, then migrating into ocean controlled by another.Canadians in the past have complained that Alaskan fishermen catch too many fish bound for Canadian rivers, while US officials objected that Canadian fishermen haul in too many salmon bound for US waters.In the 1990s, the last time the treaty was renegotiated, tempers grew so hot that Canadian fishermen blockaded an Alaska ferry terminal for days, and Canadian authorities seized several US fishing boats in Canadian waters.Since then, however, pressure to deal with dwindling chinook runs has mounted. In 1999, Puget Sound chinook were listed under the endangered species act, joining Columbia River chinook that continue to struggle. Canadians also have faced problems with some salmon runs.That growing recognition of the common threat to salmon helped drive the negotiations, said Koenings.It was also helpful that the major sticking point from the last round - the divvying up of sockeye salmon - was left to a separate set of negotiations. The previous sockeye deal is set to expire in two years.", "tags": ["Fishing", "US news", "Canada", "Environment", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US and Canada reach tentative agreement on salmon fishing"},{"date": "2008-06-24T11:44:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A report by Transparency International (TI) criticised the UK for \"lagging\" behind other countries in enforcing the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development's 2007 Anti-Bribery Convention. But the UK was not the only country to come under fire.The report found that there was \"little or no enforcement\" of the convention by more than half of OECD governments (18 out of 34).While the UK was singled out for its decision to halt the investigation into BAE Systems, another of the largest exporters in the OECD, Japan, was also described as \"lagging\" in enforcement. The report said: \"There is no centralised national office or unit for foreign bribery enforcement in Japan.\"TI recommended that Japan \"enact an independent law specifically regulating the offence of foreign bribery\". It said the country should \"send a strong signal that they are seriously pursuing prosecutions\".The UK and Japan were two of three G7 countries \"showing a lack of sufficient commitment\". The third was Canada.TI said Canada had an \"inadequate definition of foreign bribery\". It recommended \"greater efforts within government agencies involved in foreign countries or with foreign trade initiatives to report up the line and ultimately to enforcement agencies about allegations of bribery\".Although Italy was included in the countries showing \"significant enforcement\" TI said \"the current situation [in Italy] is uncertain\".The full list of countries showing little or no enforcement was: Austria, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Chile, Czech Republic, Estonia, Greece, Ireland, Japan, Mexico, New Zealand, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, Slovenia, Turkey and the United Kingdom.TI said the strongest performers in enforcement were the same as last year, namely France, Germany and the US, which are all among the largest exporters. The US was praised for allowing the greatest access to information and for the number of prosecutions and investigations it had pursued. \"In 2007, the US Department of Justice and Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) launched a record number of investigations, continuing a six-year trend. At the same time, penalties and fines have also grown dramatically,\" the report said. In Germany there were more than 43 prosecutions and over 88 pending investigations, including more than 200 since 2001, according to TI. The report highlighted a fine of \u20ac201m (\u00a3159m) imposed on Siemens in October 2007 in connection with charges involving bribery in Nigeria, Russia and Libya. In France, companies reportedly under investigation include Halliburton, Total SA and Alstom.Argentina and Australia were the only two newcomers to the \"significant enforcement\" category.The full list of countries showing \"significant enforcement\" is: Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Korea, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States.", "tags": ["Arms trade", "The BAE files", "UK news", "World news"], "title": "Anti-corruption: Canada, Japan and Ireland among those also under fire"},{"date": "2008-06-20T18:01:05Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Even on a bright, breezy summer's day, there is something uninviting about Savage Road. Its single lane track runs straight as an arrow before stopping at the water's edge on Westham Island, 15 miles from downtown Vancouver. At one end, a farm shop offers honey, fresh eggs and, incongruously, prawns. Nearby is a rod and gun club. Beyond the flattened delta landscape, mountains shimmer on the horizon. At the far end of Savage Road stands a boatyard. Hulking pieces of rusted machinery lie close to a concrete ramp leading to the water. It was here on Monday that the couple that owns the yard found something not entirely unexpected in the water: a severed human foot.\"We were just walking out in the morning, when we saw a shoe floating in the water, right there,\" the man, who preferred not to give his name, recounted two days later. \"We thought: Oh no, there's another one. Any time you see a shoe floating in the water, you kind of dread what you're going to find.\"\"We flipped it over with a stick and saw it was all yellow inside,\" said the man. \"You could see there was a foot in there. It was pretty nasty. And it stank.\"The man pointed across the water to a radio tower on another island, perhaps a mile away.\"That's where they found the one last week,\" he said.The two human feet encased in training shoes are merely the latest chapters in a whodunit that has the locals in this fishing and ferrying community buzzing. Five human feet have washed up on the island coastline around Vancouver since August last year, including two in the last four weeks. All but the one on Westham Island have been right feet; all but one appear to have been male and all have been wearing trainers - Reeboks, Nikes and Adidas. The first four were all size 12.The most recent find made front page news in Canada: \"The mystery of the feet\", was the Vancouver Sun's take on the story, while the normally staid National Post tried \"British Columbia's sixth foot of separation\", following it up with the quizzical, \"Why is it always feet?\" The Province, a somewhat racier local tabloid, took a more optimistic slant: \"Sixth foot raises hopes,\" it proclaimed.But the most recent foot turned out not to be human at all. A prankster had stuffed an animal paw into a trainer and planted it on the beach. The Royal Canadian Mounted Police were not amused.\"Who ever is responsible for this took the time to ensure that the remains were set up to closely resemble human remains,\" said inspector Brendan FitzPatrick. \"Many families with missing loved ones are closely watching and wondering if it is their loved one who has been found. The insensitivity shown to the families and the victims involved is unbelievable.\"One of the first on the scene at Campbell River was Kirsten Stevens, whose brother was one of five men who died when their seaplane crashed three years ago just minutes away from the site. Her brother's remains were the only ones found.\"We are so frustrated,\" she told the Globe and Mail. \"This is the same spit where the plane took off from. It's a constant reminder of the lack of closure.\"DNA profiles of the first three feet, found last year, do not match any missing-person cases, according to the coroner's office.While the evidence has been gathered, there are few clues to the origin of the five feet.\"The big picture is that there are body parts washing up all over the place all the time,\" said Curtis Ebbesmeyer, a retired oceanographer-turned-beachcomber who is writing a book about flotsam and jetsam to be published next year titled The Floating World.But this, he admits, is different. \"I've never come across a time when we've had five of one kind at one time. It's highly unusual.\"Ebbesmeyer got his start in the world of flotsam thanks, coincidentally, to Nike shoes. His interest in tracing the movements of ocean-born objects was piqued by the loss in 1990 of 80,000 Nike shoes when five containers rolled off a ship in heavy waters off Alaska. But shoes with feet in them are a different matter.\"The shoe is going to protect the foot pretty well,\" Ebbesmeyer said. \"Most shoes float, and sneakers tend to float sole up, so that would protect them from birds.\"Theories about the origins of the feet abound. Some suggest that they belong to victims of the 2004 Asian tsunami, or that they may be from the victims of maritime or air accidents. Others point to the large numbers of missing people in British Columbia. According to police there were 2,371 people listed as missing in the province at the end of May, with gang-related crime, drugs and homelessness all contributing to the problem. The exploits of Vancouver area pig farmer and convicted murderer Robert Pickton loom large. Pickton was convicted last year of the murder of six women, and according to the prosecution at his trial confessed to the murder of 43 others.The suggestion that there may be a criminal element connected with the appearance of so many feet is bolstered by the conclusion of Ebbesmeyer and other oceanographers that the feet have most probably been born down the Fraser River - which flows from the Rocky Mountains before reaching the Pacific Ocean at Vancouver - swelled by the spring snowmelt.\"This is such a highly improbable situation it begs the question of foul play,\" said Ebbesmeyer.The police are refusing to speculate.\"It is a unique situation but that doesn't mean there is a link between them all,\" said Delta police spokeswoman Sharlene Brooks. \"Our forensic investigation will help us identify them, then hopefully we can establish the circumstances of death and determine if this was accidental or a criminal act. We're treating it as a criminal investigation until we have reached that determination. That's the prudent thing to do. We'd do that regardless of whether it was a foot.\" Back at Westham Island, the man who found foot number five has few doubts about its origin.\"This is coming down from the river, no question about it,\" he said. \"There's someone doing this all right. Think about it, if they tied a chain around someone's ankle and threw them overboard, the foot would just pop off. That could explain it. Maybe they got a lot of bodies stored up in a container and they got washed out. We don't know. There's a lot of stuff goes on over there,\" he added, nodding toward the city.One person's misfortune, however, did bring him some reward.\"This is private property you're on,\" he said. \"We've had just about everything here the last couple of days, helicopters, boats, TV. We even took a photograph and sold it to the TV for $800. If they can afford to fly people around the world to look at this, there must be some money for a photograph.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Mystery lingers as five human feet wash ashore off Vancouver in British Columbia, Canada"},{"date": "2008-06-16T15:15:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Is the mark of a good festival the feeling at the end that you wished you'd caught more bands? In the instance of North By Northeast, that meant Permanent Bastards, Whiteboy Slim, Calm Down It's Monday, Yukon Cigar and Shit La Merde, that last a nod to Canada's multilingualism. Not that there seemed to be a particular buzz about any of these at NXNE, but an intriguing name is as good as any come-on when faced with over 400 acts in the course of three nights.Could NXNE be the new South By Southwest? Every year what seems like the entire British music industry decamps to Austin, Texas, for SXSW and the search for the latest breakthrough bands. But given that Main Street on Saturday night could well be mistaken for Camden Town come chucking out time, what hope is there for anyone to discover something truly new? And for anyone wanting to demonstrate that they're ahead of the curve, what could be better than disappearing to NXNE in Toronto instead?In the end, it didn't prove quite as easy as that. In Austin, it's hard to escape the festival whereas in Toronto at the weekend, it was sometimes hard to find the action. Stumbling along Queen Street West on Friday night, there was a NXNE-participating bar or club every couple of hundred yards, but there weren't crowds spilling into the street or queues forming outside the hottest venues - and this despite the fact that a three-day wristband guaranteeing entry to every gig was a snip at $29. Plenty of Torontons to whom this correspondent spoke seemed unaware that there even was a music festival happening in the city. And that's partly, alas, because no-one could plausibly argue that the NXNE line-up represents the bleeding edge. Top-line speakers at the conference that complements the live action included Thomas Dolby, Hugh Cornwall from the Stranglers and Radio 2's Whispering Bob Harris. Perhaps the most famous act playing the festival was Evan Dando.It would help, if NXNE does want to emulate the pulling-power of its Texan inspiration, if a Canadian act like Arcade Fire could be roped in to feature.Set against that, there was the promise that the new Arcade Fire might be discovered. Certainly those happy clappy pop tarts (just joking) were the band most often cited as a reference point by others. The woman in the cinema queue who said that it was essential we see Hey Rosetta! on Saturday night told us that they were just like Win Butler and co. Well, they do come from St. John's, Newfoundland, they've got a fiddle and cello thing going on and the crowd packed into the Legendary Horseshoe Tavern on West Queen was keen. But of acts in that vein, I preferred David Martel and his band (the Friendships?) at the Hideout the night before; outside, the rain came down in sheets, while he captured something occasionally close to magical.Who else? At Reverb on the Friday, I was waiting to catch Southend's finest, These New Puritans, but caught a band called People In Planes first. Now, whether it was the Moosehead talking (beer, that is), or whether it's a second sign of a good festival... but while their brand of melodic rock wouldn't normally be my thing, they put on an euphoric show and left me wanting to track down their latest CD. And then of all places, it turns out they're from Wales.Nothing could, however top the over-the-top Semi-Precious Weapons. Friends in New York, where the band (could only) come from had warned me that they might have the new Darkness on their bands. Now that of course is a mixed blessing. But frontman Justin (see that comparison again?) finally had the crowd lapping him up, very almost literally. And then touchingly he stayed behind to sell some merchadise, claiming that one of the bands at NXNE get paid to play. Never mind, because plenty of Toronto's hot young things will now be showing off new 'I Can't Pay My Rent But I'm Fucking Gorgeous' bags.There was plenty more, too, some of it quickly forgotten, some of it lost to haphazard note-taking. Venues lured us in through the strength of their names, too. Bu alas, the Bovine Sex Club let us down. The Real McKenzies playing there on Friday night were billed as 'handsome, well-dressed young men who play Celti-punk with lots of bagpipes'. But it was worse than that because the first part of that tag could be investigated by the Trades Description bods.Otherwise, there was also a small film festival running by day. Do check out Tricia Todd's Agile, Mobile, Hostile if you get the chance - a documentary looking at a year in the life of rap forefather Andre Williams that is by turns harrowing and highly entertaining. Also, running concurrently with NXNE was the city's highbrow Luminato festival, staging gigs and art events, including an exhibition of recent paintings by Joni Mitchell called Green Flag Song. Now, she might be Canadian, and Canadians are the politest people on earth. So let's not say it sucked big time. Nitin Sawhney was also in town for Luminato, and played a live DJ set on Saturday night at Revival on College Street to a couple of thousand fans. By this stage, the Moosehead was really doing its thing, but I spoke to him after it, and I'm pretty sure he said he was only dimly aware of NXNE. So there's room for improvement, even if at the same time, Toronto proved a fine place to party.", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Festivals", "SXSW"], "title": "Is NXNE the new SXSW?"},{"date": "2008-06-10T17:28:42Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Australia Two leading Australian scholars have been appointed to the prized annual chair of Australian studies at Harvard University for 2009. It is the first time since the chair was endowed in 1976 that more than one chair has been appointed.The University of Sydney's associate professor, Alison Bashford, and the University of Adelaide's Prof Nicholas Jose will simultaneously take up the role from September 2009 - Prof Bashford in Harvard's department of the history of science, and Prof Jose in Harvard's department of English.The visiting professorship was first established by a gift from the Australian government to Harvard in commemoration of America's bicentennial. Famous past post-holders have included Manning Clark, Gough Whitlam and Geoffrey Blainey.Australia Bond University has been collaborating with the Commonwealth secretariat since early 2007 to strengthen public sector capacities in the design and delivery of public-private partnerships. This month, with the Asian Development Bank, they brought together senior government officials from developing Pacific nations to discuss improved cost savings and efficiency in public service delivery through public-private partnerships. Last year officials from the Asian and southern African development regions took part in the programme.Canada The Canadian government has appointed Mount Allison University president and vice-chancellor Dr Robert Campbell to chair a strategic review of the Canada Post Corporation. Campbell has studied postal systems around the world and is currently completing a study on the Universal Post Union.Singapore Nanyang Technological University (NTU) has officially launched its Nanyang Environment and Water Research Institute (NEWRI) as part of a drive to make the state a global hub for the environment and water industry.The institute is an \"ecosystem\" of research groups, centres and institutes that provides a contiguous value chain from education and research through translation, development and application. It will provide a coordinated platform for NTU researchers and other Singaporean and international leaders to develop cutting edge technologies and applications, and to provide postgraduate training to help build a critical pool of world-class technical manpower and researchers for the industry.South Africa Derrick Swartz has been inaugurated as vice-chancellor of the Nelson Mandela Metropolitan University in the Eastern Cape. In his inaugural speech he committed the university to fulfilling its obligation to play its part in the continuing transformation process as a multicultural institution.Zimbabwe Prof Lindela Rowland Ndlovu, vice-chancellor of the National University of Science and Technology (NUST) in Bulawayo, was awarded the 2007 South African Society of Animal Sciences gold medal for research in recognition of his research in animal sciences.", "tags": ["Commonwealth universities", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Commonwealth universities news in brief"},{"date": "2008-06-20T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "One of the most common causes of death in Fiji is drowning, so teaching kids to swim is a life-saver. On this project, volunteers invoke a passion for swimming in primary and secondary school kids, coaching in PE lessons and after-school clubs, and living in a dormitory in Lautoka city.0845 121 1996, madventurer.com. Two weeks from \u00a3795pp inc full board and transport (exc flights).Based in Ulaanbaatar, your journalism internship in print, radio or TV will give you experience in a media environment that has flourished since the introduction of democracy in 1990. You might be asked to write a column in the English section of a national paper, front a radio chat show and gain experience behind the camera, directing or presenting the news.01903 708300, projects-abroad.co.uk, from \u00a31,195 per month inc full board and insurance (exc flights).After a four-week Spanish course, you'll be ready for a stint at Cordoba zoo, working with jaguars, pumas and other exotic animals. Accommodation is with a local host family or a house for volunteers. 0800 881 8888, globalexperience.com. Accommodation, course and project costs \u00a3895 for six weeks, and \u00a395 per additional week (exc flights).Get serious about science on the edge of the Arctic in the Mackenzie Mountain Barrens in Canada's Northwest Territories, where the permafrost is being depleted by climate change. Vast stores of carbon dioxide and methane will be released if the peat there thaws. Helpers monitor the permafrost and organic carbon stores, sampling trees and shrubs on hikes, and stay in a wilderness lodge. 01865 318 838, earthwatch.org/europe, \u00a33,195pp for 11 days starting July 22 (exc flights). Help shape the futures of disadvantaged Kenyan children, many of whom have been orphaned by Aids/HIV, in the coastal city of Mombasa. An estimated 30,000 street children live there, and you'll be helping to teach them school subjects, sports and crafts, and help with the running of the centres. 0800 011 1156, i-to-i.com, \u00a3575 for one week, \u00a3125 for additional weeks, inc homestay accommodation, or upgrade to a hotel for \u00a3275 per week. Flights extra.", "tags": ["Five best ...", "Gap year travel", "Working holidays", "Travel", "Mongolia holidays", "Argentina holidays", "Kenya holidays", "Canada holidays", "Gap years", "Education"], "title": "Five best ... gap year projects"},{"date": "2008-05-20T06:00:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Are we on the same page? ... Novelist Lawrence HillIt isn't unusual for British or Canadian books to change titles when entering the American market. It happened to JK Rowling - Harry Potter has no \"philosopher's\" stone in the USA; and to Alice Munro, whose fabulous collection of short stories went from Who Do You Think You Are? in Canada to The Beggar Maid in the USA.But I didn't think it would happen to me. When my novel, The Book of Negroes, came out last year with HarperCollins Canada, I was assured by my American publisher that the original title would be fine by them. However, several months later, I got a nervous email from my editor in New York. She mentioned that the book cover would soon be going to the printer and that the title had to change. \"Negroes\" would not fly, or be allowed to fly, in American bookstore. At first, I was irritated, but gradually I've come to make my peace with the new title, Someone Knows My Name.Perhaps the best way to examine the issue is to examine the evolution of the word \"Negro\" in America. I descend (on my father's side) from African-Americans. My own father, who was born in 1923, fled the United States with my white mother the day after they married in 1953. As my mother is fond of saying, at the time even federal government cafeterias were segregated. It was no place for an interracial couple to live.My parents, who became pioneers of the human rights movement in Canada, used the word Negro as a term of respect and pride. My American relatives all used it to describe themselves. I found it in the literature I began to consume as a teenager: one of the most famous poems by Langston Hughes, for example, is The Negro Speaks of Rivers. When my own father was appointed head of the Ontario Human Rights Commission in 1973, the Toronto Globe and Mail's headline noted that a \"Negro\" had been appointed.The term was in vogue right into the 1970s. For a time, the word \"Negro\" took a back seat in popular language culture to newer terms, such as \"Afro-American\", \"African-Canadian\", \"people of colour\" (a term I have always disliked, for its pomposity) or just plain \"black.\"In the last 20 or so years in urban America, we have witnessed more changes in racial terminology. For one thing, and regrettably in my view, many hip-hop artists have re-appropriated the word \"nigger\", tried to tame it, and use it so vocally and frequently as to strip it of its hateful origins. We are all products of our generation.Given that I was born in 1957 and taught to ball my fists against anybody using that N-word, I can't quite get my head around using it these days in any kind of peaceful or respectful manner. Just as the very word \"nigger\" has risen in popular usage over the last decade or two, however, the word \"Negro\" has become viscerally rude. In urban America, to call someone a Negro is to ask to for trouble. It suggests that the designated person has no authenticity, no backbone, no individuality, and is nothing more than an Uncle Tom to the white man.I used The Book of Negroes as the title for my novel, in Canada, because it derives from a historical document of the same name kept by British naval officers at the tail end of the American Revolutionary War. It documents the 3,000 blacks who had served the King in the war and were fleeing Manhattan for Canada in 1783. Unless you were in The Book of Negroes, you couldn't escape to Canada. My character, an African woman named Aminata Diallo whose story is based on this history, has to get into the book before she gets out.In my country, few people have complained to me about the title, and nobody continues to do so after I explain its historical origins. I think it's partly because the word \"Negro\" resonates differently in Canada. If you use it in Toronto or Montreal, you are probably just indicating publicly that you are out of touch with how people speak these days. But if you use it in Brooklyn or Boston, you are asking to have your nose broken. When I began touring with the novel in some of the major US cities, literary African-Americans kept approaching me and telling me it was a good thing indeed that the title had changed, because they would never have touched the book with its Canadian title.I'd rather have the novel read under a different title than not read at all, so perhaps my editor in New York made the right call. After all, she lives in the country, and I don't. I just have one question. Now that the novel has won the Commonwealth writers' prize, if it finds a British publisher, what will the title be in the UK?", "tags": ["Awards and prizes", "Fiction", "Books", "Culture", "Written language", "Language"], "title": "Why I'm not allowed my book title"},{"date": "2008-08-01T15:35:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Noises off comes to you, this week, in the shape of a maple leaf. Canada has an impressive and thriving theatre blogs scene. Yet while South Park once famously sang \"Blame Canada\" it seems that in recent days Canadians, at least theatrical Canadians, have been intent on blaming each other.Praxis Theatre draws attention to the first example of these controversies - an argument over a promotional video for the SummerWorks theatre festival on the SummerWorks blog.Essentially, the film depicts a group of young female playwrights behaving as if they are slightly ditzy airheads. They are talking about how one of their number, Claudia, has \"really, like, been a model, like, of how to be a really beautiful, hot playwright\", and it ends with them all having a pillow fight. To this outsider's eye, it seems like amusing and cleverly pointed stuff - somewhat echoing this inspired video from The Onion.Yet the video has sparked a furious debate in the comments below the post. One response simply asks, \"what the f?\", and Laura M says that she finds the video \"really quite misogynistic\".Meanwhile, Tara Beagan, one of the playwrights featured, says: \"I think it's absurd that we are being called out as offensive or irresponsible in some way ... What are you seeing that I'm not? What's so awful? Is it that we're admitting, as women, to being both sexual AND intelligent, and that admission is somehow beyond our capacities as a society as yet? Or is it that we're making fun of how some struggle to pigeonhole a creative female if she is also someone who some people think of as attractive?\"But perhaps this degree of passion is no bad thing on either side, and as Mooney on Theatre says: \"People REALLY care about this. They are raging, some at the video, some at the other commenters, some likely at the world. Is it bad that this makes me laugh a little bit, or does it just mean that as a member of the theatre community I can appreciate our quirks?\"A far more serious controversy has broken out in relation to a show at the Winnipeg Fringe festival. The writer and performer Keir Cutler had a hit at the festival with his show Teaching As You Like It, which told the story of a teacher waiting to be arrested for seducing one of his teenage pupils. The show got very favourable reviews, but one audience member was not amused and reported Cutler to Child Find Manitoba - a child protection agency, claiming that the show \"could be used as a textbook for the luring and seduction of young girls\".The Next Stage blog has suggested that, \"In a way, such a vitriolic outburst in response to this kind of play is a huge compliment\". But as Cutler himself says in response: \"I just want to stress that while a vitriolic outburst by an audience member can be expected from time to time; where the letter-writer attacking my play crossed the line is in contacting a child protection agency.\"She never posted anything on the plethora of sites available for Winnipeg Fringe goers. She waited until I left Winnipeg, then started a secret smear campaign. This is totally unacceptable, and does not fall into the area of 'compliment.'\"And finally, as if all that wasn't enough, the Toronto-based actor Ali Momen is blogging about Simon Lee - one of the Judges on Canada's version of How Do you Solve a Problem Like Maria? After asking why he was missing from the final two episodes, he reveals that it was because Lee has just been charged with assault. Momen's response? \"Awesome!\"And there was me thinking that Canada was a gentler place than America.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Noises off: Oh, Canada ..."},{"date": "2008-08-01T15:35:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Noises off comes to you, this week, in the shape of a maple leaf. Canada has an impressive and thriving theatre blogs scene. Yet while South Park once famously sang \"Blame Canada\" it seems that in recent days Canadians, at least theatrical Canadians, have been intent on blaming each other.Praxis Theatre draws attention to the first example of these controversies - an argument over a promotional video for the SummerWorks theatre festival on the SummerWorks blog.Essentially, the film depicts a group of young female playwrights behaving as if they are slightly ditzy airheads. They are talking about how one of their number, Claudia, has \"really, like, been a model, like, of how to be a really beautiful, hot playwright\", and it ends with them all having a pillow fight. To this outsider's eye, it seems like amusing and cleverly pointed stuff - somewhat echoing this inspired video from The Onion.Yet the video has sparked a furious debate in the comments below the post. One response simply asks, \"what the f?\", and Laura M says that she finds the video \"really quite misogynistic\".Meanwhile, Tara Beagan, one of the playwrights featured, says: \"I think it's absurd that we are being called out as offensive or irresponsible in some way ... What are you seeing that I'm not? What's so awful? Is it that we're admitting, as women, to being both sexual AND intelligent, and that admission is somehow beyond our capacities as a society as yet? Or is it that we're making fun of how some struggle to pigeonhole a creative female if she is also someone who some people think of as attractive?\"But perhaps this degree of passion is no bad thing on either side, and as Mooney on Theatre says: \"People REALLY care about this. They are raging, some at the video, some at the other commenters, some likely at the world. Is it bad that this makes me laugh a little bit, or does it just mean that as a member of the theatre community I can appreciate our quirks?\"A far more serious controversy has broken out in relation to a show at the Winnipeg Fringe festival. The writer and performer Keir Cutler had a hit at the festival with his show Teaching As You Like It, which told the story of a teacher waiting to be arrested for seducing one of his teenage pupils. The show got very favourable reviews, but one audience member was not amused and reported Cutler to Child Find Manitoba - a child protection agency, claiming that the show \"could be used as a textbook for the luring and seduction of young girls\".The Next Stage blog has suggested that, \"In a way, such a vitriolic outburst in response to this kind of play is a huge compliment\". But as Cutler himself says in response: \"I just want to stress that while a vitriolic outburst by an audience member can be expected from time to time; where the letter-writer attacking my play crossed the line is in contacting a child protection agency.\"She never posted anything on the plethora of sites available for Winnipeg Fringe goers. She waited until I left Winnipeg, then started a secret smear campaign. This is totally unacceptable, and does not fall into the area of 'compliment.'\"And finally, as if all that wasn't enough, the Toronto-based actor Ali Momen is blogging about Simon Lee - one of the Judges on Canada's version of How Do you Solve a Problem Like Maria? After asking why he was missing from the final two episodes, he reveals that it was because Lee has just been charged with assault. Momen's response? \"Awesome!\"And there was me thinking that Canada was a gentler place than America.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Noises off: Oh, Canada ..."},{"date": "2008-07-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Mountains, snow, trees, and moose ... we all know what to expect from Canada, despite its vastness. But beaches? And yet, here we are. The temperature is in the high 20s, we've just come out of the water and we're building castles out of the fine, powdery sand. This is Wasaga Beach, less than two hours drive north of Toronto, but a million miles from our preconceptions. We've taken the easy 75-mile freeway drive with two children to escape the stifling heat of the city for a couple of days. Yes, heat. Temperatures in Toronto regularly reach 32C. But driving up Highway 400, past the city of Barrie, the roads get smaller, the malls disappear and we start to detect the lake breeze. In 1934, a tiny single-engine biplane took off from here, making the first flight from Canada to England, landing in Middlesex. The vast stretch, framed by the blue mountains in the far distance, would make a good runway: 14km of sand, hugging the shores of Georgian Bay, part of Lake Huron, the second-largest of the Great Lakes, so vast we can't see the other side or the end of the sand. This is the world's longest freshwater beach and tipped by some of the more enterprising locals to become to Toronto what the Hamptons are to New York. Wasaga Beach may be the fastest-growing town in Ontario, but that only seems in evidence at the top end, where Nancy Island (the site of the sinking of HMS Nancy in 1812) stands guard at the mouth of the Nottawasaga river. Beach One, as it is known, has shops, a giant Walmart and the famous boardwalk dating back to the 1920s, although many of the beachfront stores and shacks were destroyed in a fire last year. But we're staying in the middle of more relaxed Beach Three at Adrian's, a small family resort of clapboard cottages run by Gloria and Brett Shaw, who quit Toronto for the good life out here. The resort is a minute from the beach and dunes, and the silence is punctuated only by the sounds of birds and the waves lapping against the shore. The family resort is intimate, with seven simple self-catering cottages and two condos with air conditioning, dotted around a pleasant wooded area. There are gas-fired barbecues outside the cottages and a fire pit for chillier nights. As we arrive, they're clearing up the fireworks from the previous night's celebrations for Canada Day, but today it's quiet enough for squirrels and raccoons to venture out.Gloria is accommodating when we first make contact from the UK, confirming she can supply a travel cot (called a pack and play in North America) for our seven month old, Jake, at no extra charge. And on arrival there's also a high chair waiting for us. \"Well, we just had it in the house so I thought you could use it,\" says Gloria.The water is shallow a long way from the edge of the beach and there is no tide. The firm, fine sand is perfect for building sand castles - although we have problems dragging four-year-old Ella away from the sandpit at the cottage where she has already made friends with another four-year-old Dora the Explorer-type, named Abi. A few years ago, Wasaga was dominated by teens on spring break and summer holidays. But the local council is now encouraging family tourism, and it has quietened down in recent years. A local teenager working his summer job in a nearby convenience store says \"back in the day, the main drag was bumper to bumper and folks would hop out to buy stuff here while they were waiting.\" Now it's a lot quieter with Beach One the place to go for teens and students while Beaches Three to Six are more laid back, almost deserted in parts. At the smaller Beach Three, there is less choice of places to eat but there's a good Italian, the Little Marina, three minutes from the cabins. Nearby, at Mr Norm's Nephew, locals queue out of the door for the delicious homemade ice-cream and frozen yoghurt.After feeding the giraffes at the wildlife park at Elmvale 20 minutes down the road - which also has antiques shops and a weekly farmers' market - we take the tiny lakeside road heading up toward Tiny (which is, well, tiny), past abandoned beaches and wooden shore homes. Keep going and you soon reach Georgian Bay proper, with its 30,000 islands and 2,000km of shoreline. It's home to the world's largest freshwater island, Manitoulin Island, where an artistic community resides, continuing a tradition that started with the region's famous \"Group of Seven\" 1920s impressionists who were inspired by the rugged beauty of the place. We head further east into the Wasaga Beach provincial park. In winter this is a prime skiing location, as the 40m sand dunes get covered in perfect snow. For us, though, it's a chance to stroll along part of the 50km of hiking trails, accessed from the Wasaga Nordic Centre. It's one of the rarest ecosystems in Canada - the pine-oak savannah, an open forest of oak, pine and prairie plants such as butterfly weed, New Jersey tea, hoary puccoon and big and little bluestem.The whole area is immaculate, and on Wasaga, the beach is raked every day by wardens from the nearby national park who patrol to keep its blue flag status. Back on the beach, Ella and Abi have almost finished their castle, with twigs for a bridge and leaves for flags. As the sun goes down over the bay, it is the perfect holiday scene. Only the mountains in the distance remind us where we are.Getting thereZoom (flyzoom.com) flies to Toronto from several UK airports from \u00a3365.80 rtn inc tax.Where to stayAdrian's, 184 Dunkerron Ave, Wasaga Beach (001 705 429 2913, wasaga.com/adrians/) C$400 for two nights in a 2-bedroom cabin.Further informationcanadatravel.ca, ontariotravel.net. wasagabeach.com. Flight time London-Toronto: 7hrs 55mins. Time difference: -5hrs.", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Family holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Canada: family fun on Wasaga beach"},{"date": "2008-08-01T15:35:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Noises off comes to you, this week, in the shape of a maple leaf. Canada has an impressive and thriving theatre blogs scene. Yet while South Park once famously sang \"Blame Canada\" it seems that in recent days Canadians, at least theatrical Canadians, have been intent on blaming each other.Praxis Theatre draws attention to the first example of these controversies - an argument over a promotional video for the SummerWorks theatre festival on the SummerWorks blog.Essentially, the film depicts a group of young female playwrights behaving as if they are slightly ditzy airheads. They are talking about how one of their number, Claudia, has \"really, like, been a model, like, of how to be a really beautiful, hot playwright\", and it ends with them all having a pillow fight. To this outsider's eye, it seems like amusing and cleverly pointed stuff - somewhat echoing this inspired video from The Onion.Yet the video has sparked a furious debate in the comments below the post. One response simply asks, \"what the f?\", and Laura M says that she finds the video \"really quite misogynistic\".Meanwhile, Tara Beagan, one of the playwrights featured, says: \"I think it's absurd that we are being called out as offensive or irresponsible in some way ... What are you seeing that I'm not? What's so awful? Is it that we're admitting, as women, to being both sexual AND intelligent, and that admission is somehow beyond our capacities as a society as yet? Or is it that we're making fun of how some struggle to pigeonhole a creative female if she is also someone who some people think of as attractive?\"But perhaps this degree of passion is no bad thing on either side, and as Mooney on Theatre says: \"People REALLY care about this. They are raging, some at the video, some at the other commenters, some likely at the world. Is it bad that this makes me laugh a little bit, or does it just mean that as a member of the theatre community I can appreciate our quirks?\"A far more serious controversy has broken out in relation to a show at the Winnipeg Fringe festival. The writer and performer Keir Cutler had a hit at the festival with his show Teaching As You Like It, which told the story of a teacher waiting to be arrested for seducing one of his teenage pupils. The show got very favourable reviews, but one audience member was not amused and reported Cutler to Child Find Manitoba - a child protection agency, claiming that the show \"could be used as a textbook for the luring and seduction of young girls\".The Next Stage blog has suggested that, \"In a way, such a vitriolic outburst in response to this kind of play is a huge compliment\". But as Cutler himself says in response: \"I just want to stress that while a vitriolic outburst by an audience member can be expected from time to time; where the letter-writer attacking my play crossed the line is in contacting a child protection agency.\"She never posted anything on the plethora of sites available for Winnipeg Fringe goers. She waited until I left Winnipeg, then started a secret smear campaign. This is totally unacceptable, and does not fall into the area of 'compliment.'\"And finally, as if all that wasn't enough, the Toronto-based actor Ali Momen is blogging about Simon Lee - one of the Judges on Canada's version of How Do you Solve a Problem Like Maria? After asking why he was missing from the final two episodes, he reveals that it was because Lee has just been charged with assault. Momen's response? \"Awesome!\"And there was me thinking that Canada was a gentler place than America.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Noises off: Oh, Canada ..."},{"date": "2008-07-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Mountains, snow, trees, and moose ... we all know what to expect from Canada, despite its vastness. But beaches? And yet, here we are. The temperature is in the high 20s, we've just come out of the water and we're building castles out of the fine, powdery sand. This is Wasaga Beach, less than two hours drive north of Toronto, but a million miles from our preconceptions. We've taken the easy 75-mile freeway drive with two children to escape the stifling heat of the city for a couple of days. Yes, heat. Temperatures in Toronto regularly reach 32C. But driving up Highway 400, past the city of Barrie, the roads get smaller, the malls disappear and we start to detect the lake breeze. In 1934, a tiny single-engine biplane took off from here, making the first flight from Canada to England, landing in Middlesex. The vast stretch, framed by the blue mountains in the far distance, would make a good runway: 14km of sand, hugging the shores of Georgian Bay, part of Lake Huron, the second-largest of the Great Lakes, so vast we can't see the other side or the end of the sand. This is the world's longest freshwater beach and tipped by some of the more enterprising locals to become to Toronto what the Hamptons are to New York. Wasaga Beach may be the fastest-growing town in Ontario, but that only seems in evidence at the top end, where Nancy Island (the site of the sinking of HMS Nancy in 1812) stands guard at the mouth of the Nottawasaga river. Beach One, as it is known, has shops, a giant Walmart and the famous boardwalk dating back to the 1920s, although many of the beachfront stores and shacks were destroyed in a fire last year. But we're staying in the middle of more relaxed Beach Three at Adrian's, a small family resort of clapboard cottages run by Gloria and Brett Shaw, who quit Toronto for the good life out here. The resort is a minute from the beach and dunes, and the silence is punctuated only by the sounds of birds and the waves lapping against the shore. The family resort is intimate, with seven simple self-catering cottages and two condos with air conditioning, dotted around a pleasant wooded area. There are gas-fired barbecues outside the cottages and a fire pit for chillier nights. As we arrive, they're clearing up the fireworks from the previous night's celebrations for Canada Day, but today it's quiet enough for squirrels and raccoons to venture out.Gloria is accommodating when we first make contact from the UK, confirming she can supply a travel cot (called a pack and play in North America) for our seven month old, Jake, at no extra charge. And on arrival there's also a high chair waiting for us. \"Well, we just had it in the house so I thought you could use it,\" says Gloria.The water is shallow a long way from the edge of the beach and there is no tide. The firm, fine sand is perfect for building sand castles - although we have problems dragging four-year-old Ella away from the sandpit at the cottage where she has already made friends with another four-year-old Dora the Explorer-type, named Abi. A few years ago, Wasaga was dominated by teens on spring break and summer holidays. But the local council is now encouraging family tourism, and it has quietened down in recent years. A local teenager working his summer job in a nearby convenience store says \"back in the day, the main drag was bumper to bumper and folks would hop out to buy stuff here while they were waiting.\" Now it's a lot quieter with Beach One the place to go for teens and students while Beaches Three to Six are more laid back, almost deserted in parts. At the smaller Beach Three, there is less choice of places to eat but there's a good Italian, the Little Marina, three minutes from the cabins. Nearby, at Mr Norm's Nephew, locals queue out of the door for the delicious homemade ice-cream and frozen yoghurt.After feeding the giraffes at the wildlife park at Elmvale 20 minutes down the road - which also has antiques shops and a weekly farmers' market - we take the tiny lakeside road heading up toward Tiny (which is, well, tiny), past abandoned beaches and wooden shore homes. Keep going and you soon reach Georgian Bay proper, with its 30,000 islands and 2,000km of shoreline. It's home to the world's largest freshwater island, Manitoulin Island, where an artistic community resides, continuing a tradition that started with the region's famous \"Group of Seven\" 1920s impressionists who were inspired by the rugged beauty of the place. We head further east into the Wasaga Beach provincial park. In winter this is a prime skiing location, as the 40m sand dunes get covered in perfect snow. For us, though, it's a chance to stroll along part of the 50km of hiking trails, accessed from the Wasaga Nordic Centre. It's one of the rarest ecosystems in Canada - the pine-oak savannah, an open forest of oak, pine and prairie plants such as butterfly weed, New Jersey tea, hoary puccoon and big and little bluestem.The whole area is immaculate, and on Wasaga, the beach is raked every day by wardens from the nearby national park who patrol to keep its blue flag status. Back on the beach, Ella and Abi have almost finished their castle, with twigs for a bridge and leaves for flags. As the sun goes down over the bay, it is the perfect holiday scene. Only the mountains in the distance remind us where we are.Getting thereZoom (flyzoom.com) flies to Toronto from several UK airports from \u00a3365.80 rtn inc tax.Where to stayAdrian's, 184 Dunkerron Ave, Wasaga Beach (001 705 429 2913, wasaga.com/adrians/) C$400 for two nights in a 2-bedroom cabin.Further informationcanadatravel.ca, ontariotravel.net. wasagabeach.com. Flight time London-Toronto: 7hrs 55mins. Time difference: -5hrs.", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Family holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Canada: family fun on Wasaga beach"},{"date": "2008-09-03T09:36:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Major ice-shelf loss for CanadaSource: BBC NewsThe ice shelves in Canada's High Arctic have lost a colossal area this year, scientists report. The floating tongues of ice attached to Ellesmere island have seen almost a quarter of their cover break away. Climate change may cut plague cases in US, says studySource: ReutersRare outbreaks of plague in the United States seem to match climate shifts over the Pacific Ocean in a hint that global warming may make the region too hot and dry for the disease, scientists said on Wednesday.Oil bubbles point to eco disaster in paradiseSource: New ScientistSixty years on and the impacts of the second world war are still being felt. A sunken oil tanker, one of dozens on the bottom of Micronesia's Chuuk Lagoon, is releasing streams of purple diesel bubbles. On July 31, the resulting oil slick was 5km long.Birds 'behave like football hooligans'Source: Telegraph.co.ukBirds behave like football fans after seeing their side beaten by a rival team, researchers have found. They sing together in exactly the same way as football crowds chant to taunt the opposition.Italy next solar hot spot, Spain coolsSource: Environmental News NetworkItaly could be Europe's next big solar power market after Spain, which will slash generous subsidies later this month, a leading solar industy figure told Reuters on Tuesday.", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Greenwatch: Major ice-shelf loss for Canada"},{"date": "2008-08-01T15:35:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Noises off comes to you, this week, in the shape of a maple leaf. Canada has an impressive and thriving theatre blogs scene. Yet while South Park once famously sang \"Blame Canada\" it seems that in recent days Canadians, at least theatrical Canadians, have been intent on blaming each other.Praxis Theatre draws attention to the first example of these controversies - an argument over a promotional video for the SummerWorks theatre festival on the SummerWorks blog.Essentially, the film depicts a group of young female playwrights behaving as if they are slightly ditzy airheads. They are talking about how one of their number, Claudia, has \"really, like, been a model, like, of how to be a really beautiful, hot playwright\", and it ends with them all having a pillow fight. To this outsider's eye, it seems like amusing and cleverly pointed stuff - somewhat echoing this inspired video from The Onion.Yet the video has sparked a furious debate in the comments below the post. One response simply asks, \"what the f?\", and Laura M says that she finds the video \"really quite misogynistic\".Meanwhile, Tara Beagan, one of the playwrights featured, says: \"I think it's absurd that we are being called out as offensive or irresponsible in some way ... What are you seeing that I'm not? What's so awful? Is it that we're admitting, as women, to being both sexual AND intelligent, and that admission is somehow beyond our capacities as a society as yet? Or is it that we're making fun of how some struggle to pigeonhole a creative female if she is also someone who some people think of as attractive?\"But perhaps this degree of passion is no bad thing on either side, and as Mooney on Theatre says: \"People REALLY care about this. They are raging, some at the video, some at the other commenters, some likely at the world. Is it bad that this makes me laugh a little bit, or does it just mean that as a member of the theatre community I can appreciate our quirks?\"A far more serious controversy has broken out in relation to a show at the Winnipeg Fringe festival. The writer and performer Keir Cutler had a hit at the festival with his show Teaching As You Like It, which told the story of a teacher waiting to be arrested for seducing one of his teenage pupils. The show got very favourable reviews, but one audience member was not amused and reported Cutler to Child Find Manitoba - a child protection agency, claiming that the show \"could be used as a textbook for the luring and seduction of young girls\".The Next Stage blog has suggested that, \"In a way, such a vitriolic outburst in response to this kind of play is a huge compliment\". But as Cutler himself says in response: \"I just want to stress that while a vitriolic outburst by an audience member can be expected from time to time; where the letter-writer attacking my play crossed the line is in contacting a child protection agency.\"She never posted anything on the plethora of sites available for Winnipeg Fringe goers. She waited until I left Winnipeg, then started a secret smear campaign. This is totally unacceptable, and does not fall into the area of 'compliment.'\"And finally, as if all that wasn't enough, the Toronto-based actor Ali Momen is blogging about Simon Lee - one of the Judges on Canada's version of How Do you Solve a Problem Like Maria? After asking why he was missing from the final two episodes, he reveals that it was because Lee has just been charged with assault. Momen's response? \"Awesome!\"And there was me thinking that Canada was a gentler place than America.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Noises off: Oh, Canada ..."},{"date": "2008-07-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Mountains, snow, trees, and moose ... we all know what to expect from Canada, despite its vastness. But beaches? And yet, here we are. The temperature is in the high 20s, we've just come out of the water and we're building castles out of the fine, powdery sand. This is Wasaga Beach, less than two hours drive north of Toronto, but a million miles from our preconceptions. We've taken the easy 75-mile freeway drive with two children to escape the stifling heat of the city for a couple of days. Yes, heat. Temperatures in Toronto regularly reach 32C. But driving up Highway 400, past the city of Barrie, the roads get smaller, the malls disappear and we start to detect the lake breeze. In 1934, a tiny single-engine biplane took off from here, making the first flight from Canada to England, landing in Middlesex. The vast stretch, framed by the blue mountains in the far distance, would make a good runway: 14km of sand, hugging the shores of Georgian Bay, part of Lake Huron, the second-largest of the Great Lakes, so vast we can't see the other side or the end of the sand. This is the world's longest freshwater beach and tipped by some of the more enterprising locals to become to Toronto what the Hamptons are to New York. Wasaga Beach may be the fastest-growing town in Ontario, but that only seems in evidence at the top end, where Nancy Island (the site of the sinking of HMS Nancy in 1812) stands guard at the mouth of the Nottawasaga river. Beach One, as it is known, has shops, a giant Walmart and the famous boardwalk dating back to the 1920s, although many of the beachfront stores and shacks were destroyed in a fire last year. But we're staying in the middle of more relaxed Beach Three at Adrian's, a small family resort of clapboard cottages run by Gloria and Brett Shaw, who quit Toronto for the good life out here. The resort is a minute from the beach and dunes, and the silence is punctuated only by the sounds of birds and the waves lapping against the shore. The family resort is intimate, with seven simple self-catering cottages and two condos with air conditioning, dotted around a pleasant wooded area. There are gas-fired barbecues outside the cottages and a fire pit for chillier nights. As we arrive, they're clearing up the fireworks from the previous night's celebrations for Canada Day, but today it's quiet enough for squirrels and raccoons to venture out.Gloria is accommodating when we first make contact from the UK, confirming she can supply a travel cot (called a pack and play in North America) for our seven month old, Jake, at no extra charge. And on arrival there's also a high chair waiting for us. \"Well, we just had it in the house so I thought you could use it,\" says Gloria.The water is shallow a long way from the edge of the beach and there is no tide. The firm, fine sand is perfect for building sand castles - although we have problems dragging four-year-old Ella away from the sandpit at the cottage where she has already made friends with another four-year-old Dora the Explorer-type, named Abi. A few years ago, Wasaga was dominated by teens on spring break and summer holidays. But the local council is now encouraging family tourism, and it has quietened down in recent years. A local teenager working his summer job in a nearby convenience store says \"back in the day, the main drag was bumper to bumper and folks would hop out to buy stuff here while they were waiting.\" Now it's a lot quieter with Beach One the place to go for teens and students while Beaches Three to Six are more laid back, almost deserted in parts. At the smaller Beach Three, there is less choice of places to eat but there's a good Italian, the Little Marina, three minutes from the cabins. Nearby, at Mr Norm's Nephew, locals queue out of the door for the delicious homemade ice-cream and frozen yoghurt.After feeding the giraffes at the wildlife park at Elmvale 20 minutes down the road - which also has antiques shops and a weekly farmers' market - we take the tiny lakeside road heading up toward Tiny (which is, well, tiny), past abandoned beaches and wooden shore homes. Keep going and you soon reach Georgian Bay proper, with its 30,000 islands and 2,000km of shoreline. It's home to the world's largest freshwater island, Manitoulin Island, where an artistic community resides, continuing a tradition that started with the region's famous \"Group of Seven\" 1920s impressionists who were inspired by the rugged beauty of the place. We head further east into the Wasaga Beach provincial park. In winter this is a prime skiing location, as the 40m sand dunes get covered in perfect snow. For us, though, it's a chance to stroll along part of the 50km of hiking trails, accessed from the Wasaga Nordic Centre. It's one of the rarest ecosystems in Canada - the pine-oak savannah, an open forest of oak, pine and prairie plants such as butterfly weed, New Jersey tea, hoary puccoon and big and little bluestem.The whole area is immaculate, and on Wasaga, the beach is raked every day by wardens from the nearby national park who patrol to keep its blue flag status. Back on the beach, Ella and Abi have almost finished their castle, with twigs for a bridge and leaves for flags. As the sun goes down over the bay, it is the perfect holiday scene. Only the mountains in the distance remind us where we are.Getting thereZoom (flyzoom.com) flies to Toronto from several UK airports from \u00a3365.80 rtn inc tax.Where to stayAdrian's, 184 Dunkerron Ave, Wasaga Beach (001 705 429 2913, wasaga.com/adrians/) C$400 for two nights in a 2-bedroom cabin.Further informationcanadatravel.ca, ontariotravel.net. wasagabeach.com. Flight time London-Toronto: 7hrs 55mins. Time difference: -5hrs.", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Family holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Canada: family fun on Wasaga beach"},{"date": "2008-09-03T09:36:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Major ice-shelf loss for CanadaSource: BBC NewsThe ice shelves in Canada's High Arctic have lost a colossal area this year, scientists report. The floating tongues of ice attached to Ellesmere island have seen almost a quarter of their cover break away. Climate change may cut plague cases in US, says studySource: ReutersRare outbreaks of plague in the United States seem to match climate shifts over the Pacific Ocean in a hint that global warming may make the region too hot and dry for the disease, scientists said on Wednesday.Oil bubbles point to eco disaster in paradiseSource: New ScientistSixty years on and the impacts of the second world war are still being felt. A sunken oil tanker, one of dozens on the bottom of Micronesia's Chuuk Lagoon, is releasing streams of purple diesel bubbles. On July 31, the resulting oil slick was 5km long.Birds 'behave like football hooligans'Source: Telegraph.co.ukBirds behave like football fans after seeing their side beaten by a rival team, researchers have found. They sing together in exactly the same way as football crowds chant to taunt the opposition.Italy next solar hot spot, Spain coolsSource: Environmental News NetworkItaly could be Europe's next big solar power market after Spain, which will slash generous subsidies later this month, a leading solar industy figure told Reuters on Tuesday.", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Greenwatch: Major ice-shelf loss for Canada"},{"date": "2008-08-07T22:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Scouts travelling on a coach in Canada were tonight involved in a head-on crash with a lorry.Sixteen people were taken to hospital after the tour bus collided with the lorry in eastern Ontario shortly after 6pm.The group are from the north west of England, said Scout spokesman Simon Carter.None of the injuries are thought to be life-threatening, he added. The youngsters are believed to be aged between 14 and 18. Their leaders were also on the bus.Describing damage to the vehicles as \"excessive\", City of Kawartha Lakes Constable Mark Boileau told CTV Newsnet: \"It appears it's a head-on collision between the two vehicles.\"The police officer said collision investigators were examining the scene to find out what caused the crash.He said it was not yet known if weather was a factor.\"It was raining up here prior to the accident but that will be determined by the investigation,\" he added.The British High Commission in Ottawa said it was aware of the crash.\"We have been in touch with the local authorities,\" a spokeswoman said. \"We have dispatched consular staff to the scene.\"Carter, spokesman for the Scout Association, said the injured passengers are part of a group of 102 Scouts and leaders from west Lancashire who have been on an adventure-based trip to Canada for about a week.\"They were travelling back to Toronto in two coaches - they were about 150 miles away,\" he said.\"One of the coaches was involved in a crash with what appears to be an articulated lorry.\"Some young people sustained injuries. Fortunately none of them are life-threatening - they are cases of broken bones and shock.\"The emergency services were on the scene exceptionally quickly.\"We have a team of people in the UK speaking to parents and letting them know the majority of the group is OK.\"A spokeswoman at Ross Memorial hospital in Lindsay said 16 people were admitted to hospital.Kim Coulter, community relations co-ordinator at the hospital in Ottawa, said: \"The hospital has received 16 patients who, to the best of my knowledge, are all British.\"She said all the patients were being given X-rays and CT scans to determine the extent of their injuries but as far as she had been told none of their injuries are life-threatening.She added that the British Consulate in Ottawa had been given all the patients' details and that an international phone line was being set up so the injured could contact family.Scouts are aged between 14 and 18.Constable Boileau told Sky News one passenger, understood to be a teenage girl, suffered serious but not life-threatening injuries.\"We are just hoping they recover and everybody else will be OK,\" he said. \"It's going to be an investigation that takes some time.\"He said there were 36 people on board the coach.David Thornton, an officer with the scout movement in Lancashire, said the youngsters were from different scouting groups across the county.They had travelled to Canada on July 28 and had been to two camps in the country and were due to fly back to the UK on Monday.He was not able to give any further details.", "tags": ["UK news", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "British scouts hurt in Canada bus crash"},{"date": "2008-08-01T15:35:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Noises off comes to you, this week, in the shape of a maple leaf. Canada has an impressive and thriving theatre blogs scene. Yet while South Park once famously sang \"Blame Canada\" it seems that in recent days Canadians, at least theatrical Canadians, have been intent on blaming each other.Praxis Theatre draws attention to the first example of these controversies - an argument over a promotional video for the SummerWorks theatre festival on the SummerWorks blog.Essentially, the film depicts a group of young female playwrights behaving as if they are slightly ditzy airheads. They are talking about how one of their number, Claudia, has \"really, like, been a model, like, of how to be a really beautiful, hot playwright\", and it ends with them all having a pillow fight. To this outsider's eye, it seems like amusing and cleverly pointed stuff - somewhat echoing this inspired video from The Onion.Yet the video has sparked a furious debate in the comments below the post. One response simply asks, \"what the f?\", and Laura M says that she finds the video \"really quite misogynistic\".Meanwhile, Tara Beagan, one of the playwrights featured, says: \"I think it's absurd that we are being called out as offensive or irresponsible in some way ... What are you seeing that I'm not? What's so awful? Is it that we're admitting, as women, to being both sexual AND intelligent, and that admission is somehow beyond our capacities as a society as yet? Or is it that we're making fun of how some struggle to pigeonhole a creative female if she is also someone who some people think of as attractive?\"But perhaps this degree of passion is no bad thing on either side, and as Mooney on Theatre says: \"People REALLY care about this. They are raging, some at the video, some at the other commenters, some likely at the world. Is it bad that this makes me laugh a little bit, or does it just mean that as a member of the theatre community I can appreciate our quirks?\"A far more serious controversy has broken out in relation to a show at the Winnipeg Fringe festival. The writer and performer Keir Cutler had a hit at the festival with his show Teaching As You Like It, which told the story of a teacher waiting to be arrested for seducing one of his teenage pupils. The show got very favourable reviews, but one audience member was not amused and reported Cutler to Child Find Manitoba - a child protection agency, claiming that the show \"could be used as a textbook for the luring and seduction of young girls\".The Next Stage blog has suggested that, \"In a way, such a vitriolic outburst in response to this kind of play is a huge compliment\". But as Cutler himself says in response: \"I just want to stress that while a vitriolic outburst by an audience member can be expected from time to time; where the letter-writer attacking my play crossed the line is in contacting a child protection agency.\"She never posted anything on the plethora of sites available for Winnipeg Fringe goers. She waited until I left Winnipeg, then started a secret smear campaign. This is totally unacceptable, and does not fall into the area of 'compliment.'\"And finally, as if all that wasn't enough, the Toronto-based actor Ali Momen is blogging about Simon Lee - one of the Judges on Canada's version of How Do you Solve a Problem Like Maria? After asking why he was missing from the final two episodes, he reveals that it was because Lee has just been charged with assault. Momen's response? \"Awesome!\"And there was me thinking that Canada was a gentler place than America.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Noises off: Oh, Canada ..."},{"date": "2008-07-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Mountains, snow, trees, and moose ... we all know what to expect from Canada, despite its vastness. But beaches? And yet, here we are. The temperature is in the high 20s, we've just come out of the water and we're building castles out of the fine, powdery sand. This is Wasaga Beach, less than two hours drive north of Toronto, but a million miles from our preconceptions. We've taken the easy 75-mile freeway drive with two children to escape the stifling heat of the city for a couple of days. Yes, heat. Temperatures in Toronto regularly reach 32C. But driving up Highway 400, past the city of Barrie, the roads get smaller, the malls disappear and we start to detect the lake breeze. In 1934, a tiny single-engine biplane took off from here, making the first flight from Canada to England, landing in Middlesex. The vast stretch, framed by the blue mountains in the far distance, would make a good runway: 14km of sand, hugging the shores of Georgian Bay, part of Lake Huron, the second-largest of the Great Lakes, so vast we can't see the other side or the end of the sand. This is the world's longest freshwater beach and tipped by some of the more enterprising locals to become to Toronto what the Hamptons are to New York. Wasaga Beach may be the fastest-growing town in Ontario, but that only seems in evidence at the top end, where Nancy Island (the site of the sinking of HMS Nancy in 1812) stands guard at the mouth of the Nottawasaga river. Beach One, as it is known, has shops, a giant Walmart and the famous boardwalk dating back to the 1920s, although many of the beachfront stores and shacks were destroyed in a fire last year. But we're staying in the middle of more relaxed Beach Three at Adrian's, a small family resort of clapboard cottages run by Gloria and Brett Shaw, who quit Toronto for the good life out here. The resort is a minute from the beach and dunes, and the silence is punctuated only by the sounds of birds and the waves lapping against the shore. The family resort is intimate, with seven simple self-catering cottages and two condos with air conditioning, dotted around a pleasant wooded area. There are gas-fired barbecues outside the cottages and a fire pit for chillier nights. As we arrive, they're clearing up the fireworks from the previous night's celebrations for Canada Day, but today it's quiet enough for squirrels and raccoons to venture out.Gloria is accommodating when we first make contact from the UK, confirming she can supply a travel cot (called a pack and play in North America) for our seven month old, Jake, at no extra charge. And on arrival there's also a high chair waiting for us. \"Well, we just had it in the house so I thought you could use it,\" says Gloria.The water is shallow a long way from the edge of the beach and there is no tide. The firm, fine sand is perfect for building sand castles - although we have problems dragging four-year-old Ella away from the sandpit at the cottage where she has already made friends with another four-year-old Dora the Explorer-type, named Abi. A few years ago, Wasaga was dominated by teens on spring break and summer holidays. But the local council is now encouraging family tourism, and it has quietened down in recent years. A local teenager working his summer job in a nearby convenience store says \"back in the day, the main drag was bumper to bumper and folks would hop out to buy stuff here while they were waiting.\" Now it's a lot quieter with Beach One the place to go for teens and students while Beaches Three to Six are more laid back, almost deserted in parts. At the smaller Beach Three, there is less choice of places to eat but there's a good Italian, the Little Marina, three minutes from the cabins. Nearby, at Mr Norm's Nephew, locals queue out of the door for the delicious homemade ice-cream and frozen yoghurt.After feeding the giraffes at the wildlife park at Elmvale 20 minutes down the road - which also has antiques shops and a weekly farmers' market - we take the tiny lakeside road heading up toward Tiny (which is, well, tiny), past abandoned beaches and wooden shore homes. Keep going and you soon reach Georgian Bay proper, with its 30,000 islands and 2,000km of shoreline. It's home to the world's largest freshwater island, Manitoulin Island, where an artistic community resides, continuing a tradition that started with the region's famous \"Group of Seven\" 1920s impressionists who were inspired by the rugged beauty of the place. We head further east into the Wasaga Beach provincial park. In winter this is a prime skiing location, as the 40m sand dunes get covered in perfect snow. For us, though, it's a chance to stroll along part of the 50km of hiking trails, accessed from the Wasaga Nordic Centre. It's one of the rarest ecosystems in Canada - the pine-oak savannah, an open forest of oak, pine and prairie plants such as butterfly weed, New Jersey tea, hoary puccoon and big and little bluestem.The whole area is immaculate, and on Wasaga, the beach is raked every day by wardens from the nearby national park who patrol to keep its blue flag status. Back on the beach, Ella and Abi have almost finished their castle, with twigs for a bridge and leaves for flags. As the sun goes down over the bay, it is the perfect holiday scene. Only the mountains in the distance remind us where we are.Getting thereZoom (flyzoom.com) flies to Toronto from several UK airports from \u00a3365.80 rtn inc tax.Where to stayAdrian's, 184 Dunkerron Ave, Wasaga Beach (001 705 429 2913, wasaga.com/adrians/) C$400 for two nights in a 2-bedroom cabin.Further informationcanadatravel.ca, ontariotravel.net. wasagabeach.com. Flight time London-Toronto: 7hrs 55mins. Time difference: -5hrs.", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Family holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Canada: family fun on Wasaga beach"},{"date": "2008-09-03T09:36:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Major ice-shelf loss for CanadaSource: BBC NewsThe ice shelves in Canada's High Arctic have lost a colossal area this year, scientists report. The floating tongues of ice attached to Ellesmere island have seen almost a quarter of their cover break away. Climate change may cut plague cases in US, says studySource: ReutersRare outbreaks of plague in the United States seem to match climate shifts over the Pacific Ocean in a hint that global warming may make the region too hot and dry for the disease, scientists said on Wednesday.Oil bubbles point to eco disaster in paradiseSource: New ScientistSixty years on and the impacts of the second world war are still being felt. A sunken oil tanker, one of dozens on the bottom of Micronesia's Chuuk Lagoon, is releasing streams of purple diesel bubbles. On July 31, the resulting oil slick was 5km long.Birds 'behave like football hooligans'Source: Telegraph.co.ukBirds behave like football fans after seeing their side beaten by a rival team, researchers have found. They sing together in exactly the same way as football crowds chant to taunt the opposition.Italy next solar hot spot, Spain coolsSource: Environmental News NetworkItaly could be Europe's next big solar power market after Spain, which will slash generous subsidies later this month, a leading solar industy figure told Reuters on Tuesday.", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Greenwatch: Major ice-shelf loss for Canada"},{"date": "2008-08-07T22:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Scouts travelling on a coach in Canada were tonight involved in a head-on crash with a lorry.Sixteen people were taken to hospital after the tour bus collided with the lorry in eastern Ontario shortly after 6pm.The group are from the north west of England, said Scout spokesman Simon Carter.None of the injuries are thought to be life-threatening, he added. The youngsters are believed to be aged between 14 and 18. Their leaders were also on the bus.Describing damage to the vehicles as \"excessive\", City of Kawartha Lakes Constable Mark Boileau told CTV Newsnet: \"It appears it's a head-on collision between the two vehicles.\"The police officer said collision investigators were examining the scene to find out what caused the crash.He said it was not yet known if weather was a factor.\"It was raining up here prior to the accident but that will be determined by the investigation,\" he added.The British High Commission in Ottawa said it was aware of the crash.\"We have been in touch with the local authorities,\" a spokeswoman said. \"We have dispatched consular staff to the scene.\"Carter, spokesman for the Scout Association, said the injured passengers are part of a group of 102 Scouts and leaders from west Lancashire who have been on an adventure-based trip to Canada for about a week.\"They were travelling back to Toronto in two coaches - they were about 150 miles away,\" he said.\"One of the coaches was involved in a crash with what appears to be an articulated lorry.\"Some young people sustained injuries. Fortunately none of them are life-threatening - they are cases of broken bones and shock.\"The emergency services were on the scene exceptionally quickly.\"We have a team of people in the UK speaking to parents and letting them know the majority of the group is OK.\"A spokeswoman at Ross Memorial hospital in Lindsay said 16 people were admitted to hospital.Kim Coulter, community relations co-ordinator at the hospital in Ottawa, said: \"The hospital has received 16 patients who, to the best of my knowledge, are all British.\"She said all the patients were being given X-rays and CT scans to determine the extent of their injuries but as far as she had been told none of their injuries are life-threatening.She added that the British Consulate in Ottawa had been given all the patients' details and that an international phone line was being set up so the injured could contact family.Scouts are aged between 14 and 18.Constable Boileau told Sky News one passenger, understood to be a teenage girl, suffered serious but not life-threatening injuries.\"We are just hoping they recover and everybody else will be OK,\" he said. \"It's going to be an investigation that takes some time.\"He said there were 36 people on board the coach.David Thornton, an officer with the scout movement in Lancashire, said the youngsters were from different scouting groups across the county.They had travelled to Canada on July 28 and had been to two camps in the country and were due to fly back to the UK on Monday.He was not able to give any further details.", "tags": ["UK news", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "British scouts hurt in Canada bus crash"},{"date": "2008-07-01T12:04:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is putting skilled British workers on a fast track for immigration visas to exploit the UK's soaring cost of living, the Daily Mail reports today.\"(Canadian) officials believe superior public services and the ability to weather economic turmoil will lure Britons fed up with fuel and food prices and with the state of schools and hospitals,\" the paper says.The Alberta employment minister, Hector Goudreau, currently in Britain, believes you could sell a small flat in London and buy a large detached house with garden in Canada for the same amount.The Mail describes it as one of the \"most audacious recruitments raids since Australia poached a million Britons\", and is not amused. The paper has commissioned the former Telegraph New York correspondent Philip Delves Broughton to put Britons off leaving for the world's second-largest country. \"Canada is the big, earnest, empty restaurant which can't understand why the scrappier joint next door is hopping. People just do not want to go ... the climate makes Britain's look positively Mediterranean ... In the dramatic arts, Canada's greatest recent contribution is the incomprehensible, semi-nude contortion act of Cirque du Soleil. And as for its newspapers, they are lifeless and hobbled by the provincialism which divides the country.\"But not all British expats in Canada are so nonplussed, as the Guardian's Helen Pidd found out when she covered this story three months ago.\"Even the criminals are friendly, Russ Harper, 41, an ex-military man who served in the North Yorkshire force for eight years, said. \"They hardly ever even run away, and often when you stop them, they admit there are warrants out for their arrest. They say 'yes sir' and 'no sir', even when you're arresting them.\"Canada is not without its darker side - the rendition of Maher Arar, for example - but the country is regularly ranked in the top five places to live in the world. Alberta's immigration website doesn't have to try too hard to depict a province of beautiful open spaces and carefree children flying kites. The landscape is stunning. And, most important of all, the weather doesn't look too bad today, either.", "tags": ["World news", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "A Daily Mail guide to Canada"},{"date": "2008-08-01T15:35:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Noises off comes to you, this week, in the shape of a maple leaf. Canada has an impressive and thriving theatre blogs scene. Yet while South Park once famously sang \"Blame Canada\" it seems that in recent days Canadians, at least theatrical Canadians, have been intent on blaming each other.Praxis Theatre draws attention to the first example of these controversies - an argument over a promotional video for the SummerWorks theatre festival on the SummerWorks blog.Essentially, the film depicts a group of young female playwrights behaving as if they are slightly ditzy airheads. They are talking about how one of their number, Claudia, has \"really, like, been a model, like, of how to be a really beautiful, hot playwright\", and it ends with them all having a pillow fight. To this outsider's eye, it seems like amusing and cleverly pointed stuff - somewhat echoing this inspired video from The Onion.Yet the video has sparked a furious debate in the comments below the post. One response simply asks, \"what the f?\", and Laura M says that she finds the video \"really quite misogynistic\".Meanwhile, Tara Beagan, one of the playwrights featured, says: \"I think it's absurd that we are being called out as offensive or irresponsible in some way ... What are you seeing that I'm not? What's so awful? Is it that we're admitting, as women, to being both sexual AND intelligent, and that admission is somehow beyond our capacities as a society as yet? Or is it that we're making fun of how some struggle to pigeonhole a creative female if she is also someone who some people think of as attractive?\"But perhaps this degree of passion is no bad thing on either side, and as Mooney on Theatre says: \"People REALLY care about this. They are raging, some at the video, some at the other commenters, some likely at the world. Is it bad that this makes me laugh a little bit, or does it just mean that as a member of the theatre community I can appreciate our quirks?\"A far more serious controversy has broken out in relation to a show at the Winnipeg Fringe festival. The writer and performer Keir Cutler had a hit at the festival with his show Teaching As You Like It, which told the story of a teacher waiting to be arrested for seducing one of his teenage pupils. The show got very favourable reviews, but one audience member was not amused and reported Cutler to Child Find Manitoba - a child protection agency, claiming that the show \"could be used as a textbook for the luring and seduction of young girls\".The Next Stage blog has suggested that, \"In a way, such a vitriolic outburst in response to this kind of play is a huge compliment\". But as Cutler himself says in response: \"I just want to stress that while a vitriolic outburst by an audience member can be expected from time to time; where the letter-writer attacking my play crossed the line is in contacting a child protection agency.\"She never posted anything on the plethora of sites available for Winnipeg Fringe goers. She waited until I left Winnipeg, then started a secret smear campaign. This is totally unacceptable, and does not fall into the area of 'compliment.'\"And finally, as if all that wasn't enough, the Toronto-based actor Ali Momen is blogging about Simon Lee - one of the Judges on Canada's version of How Do you Solve a Problem Like Maria? After asking why he was missing from the final two episodes, he reveals that it was because Lee has just been charged with assault. Momen's response? \"Awesome!\"And there was me thinking that Canada was a gentler place than America.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Noises off: Oh, Canada ..."},{"date": "2008-07-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Mountains, snow, trees, and moose ... we all know what to expect from Canada, despite its vastness. But beaches? And yet, here we are. The temperature is in the high 20s, we've just come out of the water and we're building castles out of the fine, powdery sand. This is Wasaga Beach, less than two hours drive north of Toronto, but a million miles from our preconceptions. We've taken the easy 75-mile freeway drive with two children to escape the stifling heat of the city for a couple of days. Yes, heat. Temperatures in Toronto regularly reach 32C. But driving up Highway 400, past the city of Barrie, the roads get smaller, the malls disappear and we start to detect the lake breeze. In 1934, a tiny single-engine biplane took off from here, making the first flight from Canada to England, landing in Middlesex. The vast stretch, framed by the blue mountains in the far distance, would make a good runway: 14km of sand, hugging the shores of Georgian Bay, part of Lake Huron, the second-largest of the Great Lakes, so vast we can't see the other side or the end of the sand. This is the world's longest freshwater beach and tipped by some of the more enterprising locals to become to Toronto what the Hamptons are to New York. Wasaga Beach may be the fastest-growing town in Ontario, but that only seems in evidence at the top end, where Nancy Island (the site of the sinking of HMS Nancy in 1812) stands guard at the mouth of the Nottawasaga river. Beach One, as it is known, has shops, a giant Walmart and the famous boardwalk dating back to the 1920s, although many of the beachfront stores and shacks were destroyed in a fire last year. But we're staying in the middle of more relaxed Beach Three at Adrian's, a small family resort of clapboard cottages run by Gloria and Brett Shaw, who quit Toronto for the good life out here. The resort is a minute from the beach and dunes, and the silence is punctuated only by the sounds of birds and the waves lapping against the shore. The family resort is intimate, with seven simple self-catering cottages and two condos with air conditioning, dotted around a pleasant wooded area. There are gas-fired barbecues outside the cottages and a fire pit for chillier nights. As we arrive, they're clearing up the fireworks from the previous night's celebrations for Canada Day, but today it's quiet enough for squirrels and raccoons to venture out.Gloria is accommodating when we first make contact from the UK, confirming she can supply a travel cot (called a pack and play in North America) for our seven month old, Jake, at no extra charge. And on arrival there's also a high chair waiting for us. \"Well, we just had it in the house so I thought you could use it,\" says Gloria.The water is shallow a long way from the edge of the beach and there is no tide. The firm, fine sand is perfect for building sand castles - although we have problems dragging four-year-old Ella away from the sandpit at the cottage where she has already made friends with another four-year-old Dora the Explorer-type, named Abi. A few years ago, Wasaga was dominated by teens on spring break and summer holidays. But the local council is now encouraging family tourism, and it has quietened down in recent years. A local teenager working his summer job in a nearby convenience store says \"back in the day, the main drag was bumper to bumper and folks would hop out to buy stuff here while they were waiting.\" Now it's a lot quieter with Beach One the place to go for teens and students while Beaches Three to Six are more laid back, almost deserted in parts. At the smaller Beach Three, there is less choice of places to eat but there's a good Italian, the Little Marina, three minutes from the cabins. Nearby, at Mr Norm's Nephew, locals queue out of the door for the delicious homemade ice-cream and frozen yoghurt.After feeding the giraffes at the wildlife park at Elmvale 20 minutes down the road - which also has antiques shops and a weekly farmers' market - we take the tiny lakeside road heading up toward Tiny (which is, well, tiny), past abandoned beaches and wooden shore homes. Keep going and you soon reach Georgian Bay proper, with its 30,000 islands and 2,000km of shoreline. It's home to the world's largest freshwater island, Manitoulin Island, where an artistic community resides, continuing a tradition that started with the region's famous \"Group of Seven\" 1920s impressionists who were inspired by the rugged beauty of the place. We head further east into the Wasaga Beach provincial park. In winter this is a prime skiing location, as the 40m sand dunes get covered in perfect snow. For us, though, it's a chance to stroll along part of the 50km of hiking trails, accessed from the Wasaga Nordic Centre. It's one of the rarest ecosystems in Canada - the pine-oak savannah, an open forest of oak, pine and prairie plants such as butterfly weed, New Jersey tea, hoary puccoon and big and little bluestem.The whole area is immaculate, and on Wasaga, the beach is raked every day by wardens from the nearby national park who patrol to keep its blue flag status. Back on the beach, Ella and Abi have almost finished their castle, with twigs for a bridge and leaves for flags. As the sun goes down over the bay, it is the perfect holiday scene. Only the mountains in the distance remind us where we are.Getting thereZoom (flyzoom.com) flies to Toronto from several UK airports from \u00a3365.80 rtn inc tax.Where to stayAdrian's, 184 Dunkerron Ave, Wasaga Beach (001 705 429 2913, wasaga.com/adrians/) C$400 for two nights in a 2-bedroom cabin.Further informationcanadatravel.ca, ontariotravel.net. wasagabeach.com. Flight time London-Toronto: 7hrs 55mins. Time difference: -5hrs.", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Family holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Canada: family fun on Wasaga beach"},{"date": "2008-09-03T09:36:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Major ice-shelf loss for CanadaSource: BBC NewsThe ice shelves in Canada's High Arctic have lost a colossal area this year, scientists report. The floating tongues of ice attached to Ellesmere island have seen almost a quarter of their cover break away. Climate change may cut plague cases in US, says studySource: ReutersRare outbreaks of plague in the United States seem to match climate shifts over the Pacific Ocean in a hint that global warming may make the region too hot and dry for the disease, scientists said on Wednesday.Oil bubbles point to eco disaster in paradiseSource: New ScientistSixty years on and the impacts of the second world war are still being felt. A sunken oil tanker, one of dozens on the bottom of Micronesia's Chuuk Lagoon, is releasing streams of purple diesel bubbles. On July 31, the resulting oil slick was 5km long.Birds 'behave like football hooligans'Source: Telegraph.co.ukBirds behave like football fans after seeing their side beaten by a rival team, researchers have found. They sing together in exactly the same way as football crowds chant to taunt the opposition.Italy next solar hot spot, Spain coolsSource: Environmental News NetworkItaly could be Europe's next big solar power market after Spain, which will slash generous subsidies later this month, a leading solar industy figure told Reuters on Tuesday.", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Greenwatch: Major ice-shelf loss for Canada"},{"date": "2008-08-07T22:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Scouts travelling on a coach in Canada were tonight involved in a head-on crash with a lorry.Sixteen people were taken to hospital after the tour bus collided with the lorry in eastern Ontario shortly after 6pm.The group are from the north west of England, said Scout spokesman Simon Carter.None of the injuries are thought to be life-threatening, he added. The youngsters are believed to be aged between 14 and 18. Their leaders were also on the bus.Describing damage to the vehicles as \"excessive\", City of Kawartha Lakes Constable Mark Boileau told CTV Newsnet: \"It appears it's a head-on collision between the two vehicles.\"The police officer said collision investigators were examining the scene to find out what caused the crash.He said it was not yet known if weather was a factor.\"It was raining up here prior to the accident but that will be determined by the investigation,\" he added.The British High Commission in Ottawa said it was aware of the crash.\"We have been in touch with the local authorities,\" a spokeswoman said. \"We have dispatched consular staff to the scene.\"Carter, spokesman for the Scout Association, said the injured passengers are part of a group of 102 Scouts and leaders from west Lancashire who have been on an adventure-based trip to Canada for about a week.\"They were travelling back to Toronto in two coaches - they were about 150 miles away,\" he said.\"One of the coaches was involved in a crash with what appears to be an articulated lorry.\"Some young people sustained injuries. Fortunately none of them are life-threatening - they are cases of broken bones and shock.\"The emergency services were on the scene exceptionally quickly.\"We have a team of people in the UK speaking to parents and letting them know the majority of the group is OK.\"A spokeswoman at Ross Memorial hospital in Lindsay said 16 people were admitted to hospital.Kim Coulter, community relations co-ordinator at the hospital in Ottawa, said: \"The hospital has received 16 patients who, to the best of my knowledge, are all British.\"She said all the patients were being given X-rays and CT scans to determine the extent of their injuries but as far as she had been told none of their injuries are life-threatening.She added that the British Consulate in Ottawa had been given all the patients' details and that an international phone line was being set up so the injured could contact family.Scouts are aged between 14 and 18.Constable Boileau told Sky News one passenger, understood to be a teenage girl, suffered serious but not life-threatening injuries.\"We are just hoping they recover and everybody else will be OK,\" he said. \"It's going to be an investigation that takes some time.\"He said there were 36 people on board the coach.David Thornton, an officer with the scout movement in Lancashire, said the youngsters were from different scouting groups across the county.They had travelled to Canada on July 28 and had been to two camps in the country and were due to fly back to the UK on Monday.He was not able to give any further details.", "tags": ["UK news", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "British scouts hurt in Canada bus crash"},{"date": "2008-07-01T12:04:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is putting skilled British workers on a fast track for immigration visas to exploit the UK's soaring cost of living, the Daily Mail reports today.\"(Canadian) officials believe superior public services and the ability to weather economic turmoil will lure Britons fed up with fuel and food prices and with the state of schools and hospitals,\" the paper says.The Alberta employment minister, Hector Goudreau, currently in Britain, believes you could sell a small flat in London and buy a large detached house with garden in Canada for the same amount.The Mail describes it as one of the \"most audacious recruitments raids since Australia poached a million Britons\", and is not amused. The paper has commissioned the former Telegraph New York correspondent Philip Delves Broughton to put Britons off leaving for the world's second-largest country. \"Canada is the big, earnest, empty restaurant which can't understand why the scrappier joint next door is hopping. People just do not want to go ... the climate makes Britain's look positively Mediterranean ... In the dramatic arts, Canada's greatest recent contribution is the incomprehensible, semi-nude contortion act of Cirque du Soleil. And as for its newspapers, they are lifeless and hobbled by the provincialism which divides the country.\"But not all British expats in Canada are so nonplussed, as the Guardian's Helen Pidd found out when she covered this story three months ago.\"Even the criminals are friendly, Russ Harper, 41, an ex-military man who served in the North Yorkshire force for eight years, said. \"They hardly ever even run away, and often when you stop them, they admit there are warrants out for their arrest. They say 'yes sir' and 'no sir', even when you're arresting them.\"Canada is not without its darker side - the rendition of Maher Arar, for example - but the country is regularly ranked in the top five places to live in the world. Alberta's immigration website doesn't have to try too hard to depict a province of beautiful open spaces and carefree children flying kites. The landscape is stunning. And, most important of all, the weather doesn't look too bad today, either.", "tags": ["World news", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "A Daily Mail guide to Canada"},{"date": "2008-08-12T19:34:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "As the battle for control of the Arctic's energy resources heats up, the US is partnering with its territorial rival Canada for a cruise to map areas of the oil-rich continental shelf.In addition to the Canadian cruise next month, the US state department is slated to launch a preliminary voyage tomorrow that will use echo-sounder technology to produce a 3D map of the Chukchi Cap, located about 600 miles north of Alaska.The two cruises by the US coast guard cutter ship Healy mark the fourth year of America's efforts to claim a share of the expansive oil reserves in the Arctic. One-fifth of the world's available and untapped fuel is located in the far north, the US government estimates.Data collected from the Healy's cruises will be publicly released and \"provide greater scientific insight into relatively unexplored regions of the ocean,\" the state department said this week.The voyages also could mark a new era of cooperation between the US and Canada, which are vying with Russia and Denmark to control parts of the Arctic seafloor. Russia's planting of a flag on the North Pole last year marked an escalation of the underwater land race.The Healy's findings could further enflame the politically charged debate over drilling in protected areas of the Arctic and the US coasts, depending on the data uncovered by the cruise.But the US-Canada cruise is primarily an alliance to aid both countries' scientific goals. Canada brings a seismic mapping system to the table hat uses sea sediments to measure the seafloor, while the Healy brings superior ice-breaking power to the venture.Even if the US can make a case for ownership of Arctic land beyond 200 miles off the Alaskan coast, ratification of the UN law of the sea treaty is likely necessary to formalise a claim. The US is the only nation hunting for Arctic resources that has yet to approve the treaty.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Energy", "Environment", "Oil"], "title": "US partners with Canada to map oil-rich continental shelf"},{"date": "2008-08-01T15:35:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Noises off comes to you, this week, in the shape of a maple leaf. Canada has an impressive and thriving theatre blogs scene. Yet while South Park once famously sang \"Blame Canada\" it seems that in recent days Canadians, at least theatrical Canadians, have been intent on blaming each other.Praxis Theatre draws attention to the first example of these controversies - an argument over a promotional video for the SummerWorks theatre festival on the SummerWorks blog.Essentially, the film depicts a group of young female playwrights behaving as if they are slightly ditzy airheads. They are talking about how one of their number, Claudia, has \"really, like, been a model, like, of how to be a really beautiful, hot playwright\", and it ends with them all having a pillow fight. To this outsider's eye, it seems like amusing and cleverly pointed stuff - somewhat echoing this inspired video from The Onion.Yet the video has sparked a furious debate in the comments below the post. One response simply asks, \"what the f?\", and Laura M says that she finds the video \"really quite misogynistic\".Meanwhile, Tara Beagan, one of the playwrights featured, says: \"I think it's absurd that we are being called out as offensive or irresponsible in some way ... What are you seeing that I'm not? What's so awful? Is it that we're admitting, as women, to being both sexual AND intelligent, and that admission is somehow beyond our capacities as a society as yet? Or is it that we're making fun of how some struggle to pigeonhole a creative female if she is also someone who some people think of as attractive?\"But perhaps this degree of passion is no bad thing on either side, and as Mooney on Theatre says: \"People REALLY care about this. They are raging, some at the video, some at the other commenters, some likely at the world. Is it bad that this makes me laugh a little bit, or does it just mean that as a member of the theatre community I can appreciate our quirks?\"A far more serious controversy has broken out in relation to a show at the Winnipeg Fringe festival. The writer and performer Keir Cutler had a hit at the festival with his show Teaching As You Like It, which told the story of a teacher waiting to be arrested for seducing one of his teenage pupils. The show got very favourable reviews, but one audience member was not amused and reported Cutler to Child Find Manitoba - a child protection agency, claiming that the show \"could be used as a textbook for the luring and seduction of young girls\".The Next Stage blog has suggested that, \"In a way, such a vitriolic outburst in response to this kind of play is a huge compliment\". But as Cutler himself says in response: \"I just want to stress that while a vitriolic outburst by an audience member can be expected from time to time; where the letter-writer attacking my play crossed the line is in contacting a child protection agency.\"She never posted anything on the plethora of sites available for Winnipeg Fringe goers. She waited until I left Winnipeg, then started a secret smear campaign. This is totally unacceptable, and does not fall into the area of 'compliment.'\"And finally, as if all that wasn't enough, the Toronto-based actor Ali Momen is blogging about Simon Lee - one of the Judges on Canada's version of How Do you Solve a Problem Like Maria? After asking why he was missing from the final two episodes, he reveals that it was because Lee has just been charged with assault. Momen's response? \"Awesome!\"And there was me thinking that Canada was a gentler place than America.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Noises off: Oh, Canada ..."},{"date": "2008-07-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Mountains, snow, trees, and moose ... we all know what to expect from Canada, despite its vastness. But beaches? And yet, here we are. The temperature is in the high 20s, we've just come out of the water and we're building castles out of the fine, powdery sand. This is Wasaga Beach, less than two hours drive north of Toronto, but a million miles from our preconceptions. We've taken the easy 75-mile freeway drive with two children to escape the stifling heat of the city for a couple of days. Yes, heat. Temperatures in Toronto regularly reach 32C. But driving up Highway 400, past the city of Barrie, the roads get smaller, the malls disappear and we start to detect the lake breeze. In 1934, a tiny single-engine biplane took off from here, making the first flight from Canada to England, landing in Middlesex. The vast stretch, framed by the blue mountains in the far distance, would make a good runway: 14km of sand, hugging the shores of Georgian Bay, part of Lake Huron, the second-largest of the Great Lakes, so vast we can't see the other side or the end of the sand. This is the world's longest freshwater beach and tipped by some of the more enterprising locals to become to Toronto what the Hamptons are to New York. Wasaga Beach may be the fastest-growing town in Ontario, but that only seems in evidence at the top end, where Nancy Island (the site of the sinking of HMS Nancy in 1812) stands guard at the mouth of the Nottawasaga river. Beach One, as it is known, has shops, a giant Walmart and the famous boardwalk dating back to the 1920s, although many of the beachfront stores and shacks were destroyed in a fire last year. But we're staying in the middle of more relaxed Beach Three at Adrian's, a small family resort of clapboard cottages run by Gloria and Brett Shaw, who quit Toronto for the good life out here. The resort is a minute from the beach and dunes, and the silence is punctuated only by the sounds of birds and the waves lapping against the shore. The family resort is intimate, with seven simple self-catering cottages and two condos with air conditioning, dotted around a pleasant wooded area. There are gas-fired barbecues outside the cottages and a fire pit for chillier nights. As we arrive, they're clearing up the fireworks from the previous night's celebrations for Canada Day, but today it's quiet enough for squirrels and raccoons to venture out.Gloria is accommodating when we first make contact from the UK, confirming she can supply a travel cot (called a pack and play in North America) for our seven month old, Jake, at no extra charge. And on arrival there's also a high chair waiting for us. \"Well, we just had it in the house so I thought you could use it,\" says Gloria.The water is shallow a long way from the edge of the beach and there is no tide. The firm, fine sand is perfect for building sand castles - although we have problems dragging four-year-old Ella away from the sandpit at the cottage where she has already made friends with another four-year-old Dora the Explorer-type, named Abi. A few years ago, Wasaga was dominated by teens on spring break and summer holidays. But the local council is now encouraging family tourism, and it has quietened down in recent years. A local teenager working his summer job in a nearby convenience store says \"back in the day, the main drag was bumper to bumper and folks would hop out to buy stuff here while they were waiting.\" Now it's a lot quieter with Beach One the place to go for teens and students while Beaches Three to Six are more laid back, almost deserted in parts. At the smaller Beach Three, there is less choice of places to eat but there's a good Italian, the Little Marina, three minutes from the cabins. Nearby, at Mr Norm's Nephew, locals queue out of the door for the delicious homemade ice-cream and frozen yoghurt.After feeding the giraffes at the wildlife park at Elmvale 20 minutes down the road - which also has antiques shops and a weekly farmers' market - we take the tiny lakeside road heading up toward Tiny (which is, well, tiny), past abandoned beaches and wooden shore homes. Keep going and you soon reach Georgian Bay proper, with its 30,000 islands and 2,000km of shoreline. It's home to the world's largest freshwater island, Manitoulin Island, where an artistic community resides, continuing a tradition that started with the region's famous \"Group of Seven\" 1920s impressionists who were inspired by the rugged beauty of the place. We head further east into the Wasaga Beach provincial park. In winter this is a prime skiing location, as the 40m sand dunes get covered in perfect snow. For us, though, it's a chance to stroll along part of the 50km of hiking trails, accessed from the Wasaga Nordic Centre. It's one of the rarest ecosystems in Canada - the pine-oak savannah, an open forest of oak, pine and prairie plants such as butterfly weed, New Jersey tea, hoary puccoon and big and little bluestem.The whole area is immaculate, and on Wasaga, the beach is raked every day by wardens from the nearby national park who patrol to keep its blue flag status. Back on the beach, Ella and Abi have almost finished their castle, with twigs for a bridge and leaves for flags. As the sun goes down over the bay, it is the perfect holiday scene. Only the mountains in the distance remind us where we are.Getting thereZoom (flyzoom.com) flies to Toronto from several UK airports from \u00a3365.80 rtn inc tax.Where to stayAdrian's, 184 Dunkerron Ave, Wasaga Beach (001 705 429 2913, wasaga.com/adrians/) C$400 for two nights in a 2-bedroom cabin.Further informationcanadatravel.ca, ontariotravel.net. wasagabeach.com. Flight time London-Toronto: 7hrs 55mins. Time difference: -5hrs.", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Family holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Canada: family fun on Wasaga beach"},{"date": "2008-09-03T09:36:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Major ice-shelf loss for CanadaSource: BBC NewsThe ice shelves in Canada's High Arctic have lost a colossal area this year, scientists report. The floating tongues of ice attached to Ellesmere island have seen almost a quarter of their cover break away. Climate change may cut plague cases in US, says studySource: ReutersRare outbreaks of plague in the United States seem to match climate shifts over the Pacific Ocean in a hint that global warming may make the region too hot and dry for the disease, scientists said on Wednesday.Oil bubbles point to eco disaster in paradiseSource: New ScientistSixty years on and the impacts of the second world war are still being felt. A sunken oil tanker, one of dozens on the bottom of Micronesia's Chuuk Lagoon, is releasing streams of purple diesel bubbles. On July 31, the resulting oil slick was 5km long.Birds 'behave like football hooligans'Source: Telegraph.co.ukBirds behave like football fans after seeing their side beaten by a rival team, researchers have found. They sing together in exactly the same way as football crowds chant to taunt the opposition.Italy next solar hot spot, Spain coolsSource: Environmental News NetworkItaly could be Europe's next big solar power market after Spain, which will slash generous subsidies later this month, a leading solar industy figure told Reuters on Tuesday.", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Greenwatch: Major ice-shelf loss for Canada"},{"date": "2008-08-07T22:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Scouts travelling on a coach in Canada were tonight involved in a head-on crash with a lorry.Sixteen people were taken to hospital after the tour bus collided with the lorry in eastern Ontario shortly after 6pm.The group are from the north west of England, said Scout spokesman Simon Carter.None of the injuries are thought to be life-threatening, he added. The youngsters are believed to be aged between 14 and 18. Their leaders were also on the bus.Describing damage to the vehicles as \"excessive\", City of Kawartha Lakes Constable Mark Boileau told CTV Newsnet: \"It appears it's a head-on collision between the two vehicles.\"The police officer said collision investigators were examining the scene to find out what caused the crash.He said it was not yet known if weather was a factor.\"It was raining up here prior to the accident but that will be determined by the investigation,\" he added.The British High Commission in Ottawa said it was aware of the crash.\"We have been in touch with the local authorities,\" a spokeswoman said. \"We have dispatched consular staff to the scene.\"Carter, spokesman for the Scout Association, said the injured passengers are part of a group of 102 Scouts and leaders from west Lancashire who have been on an adventure-based trip to Canada for about a week.\"They were travelling back to Toronto in two coaches - they were about 150 miles away,\" he said.\"One of the coaches was involved in a crash with what appears to be an articulated lorry.\"Some young people sustained injuries. Fortunately none of them are life-threatening - they are cases of broken bones and shock.\"The emergency services were on the scene exceptionally quickly.\"We have a team of people in the UK speaking to parents and letting them know the majority of the group is OK.\"A spokeswoman at Ross Memorial hospital in Lindsay said 16 people were admitted to hospital.Kim Coulter, community relations co-ordinator at the hospital in Ottawa, said: \"The hospital has received 16 patients who, to the best of my knowledge, are all British.\"She said all the patients were being given X-rays and CT scans to determine the extent of their injuries but as far as she had been told none of their injuries are life-threatening.She added that the British Consulate in Ottawa had been given all the patients' details and that an international phone line was being set up so the injured could contact family.Scouts are aged between 14 and 18.Constable Boileau told Sky News one passenger, understood to be a teenage girl, suffered serious but not life-threatening injuries.\"We are just hoping they recover and everybody else will be OK,\" he said. \"It's going to be an investigation that takes some time.\"He said there were 36 people on board the coach.David Thornton, an officer with the scout movement in Lancashire, said the youngsters were from different scouting groups across the county.They had travelled to Canada on July 28 and had been to two camps in the country and were due to fly back to the UK on Monday.He was not able to give any further details.", "tags": ["UK news", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "British scouts hurt in Canada bus crash"},{"date": "2008-07-01T12:04:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is putting skilled British workers on a fast track for immigration visas to exploit the UK's soaring cost of living, the Daily Mail reports today.\"(Canadian) officials believe superior public services and the ability to weather economic turmoil will lure Britons fed up with fuel and food prices and with the state of schools and hospitals,\" the paper says.The Alberta employment minister, Hector Goudreau, currently in Britain, believes you could sell a small flat in London and buy a large detached house with garden in Canada for the same amount.The Mail describes it as one of the \"most audacious recruitments raids since Australia poached a million Britons\", and is not amused. The paper has commissioned the former Telegraph New York correspondent Philip Delves Broughton to put Britons off leaving for the world's second-largest country. \"Canada is the big, earnest, empty restaurant which can't understand why the scrappier joint next door is hopping. People just do not want to go ... the climate makes Britain's look positively Mediterranean ... In the dramatic arts, Canada's greatest recent contribution is the incomprehensible, semi-nude contortion act of Cirque du Soleil. And as for its newspapers, they are lifeless and hobbled by the provincialism which divides the country.\"But not all British expats in Canada are so nonplussed, as the Guardian's Helen Pidd found out when she covered this story three months ago.\"Even the criminals are friendly, Russ Harper, 41, an ex-military man who served in the North Yorkshire force for eight years, said. \"They hardly ever even run away, and often when you stop them, they admit there are warrants out for their arrest. They say 'yes sir' and 'no sir', even when you're arresting them.\"Canada is not without its darker side - the rendition of Maher Arar, for example - but the country is regularly ranked in the top five places to live in the world. Alberta's immigration website doesn't have to try too hard to depict a province of beautiful open spaces and carefree children flying kites. The landscape is stunning. And, most important of all, the weather doesn't look too bad today, either.", "tags": ["World news", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "A Daily Mail guide to Canada"},{"date": "2008-08-12T19:34:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "As the battle for control of the Arctic's energy resources heats up, the US is partnering with its territorial rival Canada for a cruise to map areas of the oil-rich continental shelf.In addition to the Canadian cruise next month, the US state department is slated to launch a preliminary voyage tomorrow that will use echo-sounder technology to produce a 3D map of the Chukchi Cap, located about 600 miles north of Alaska.The two cruises by the US coast guard cutter ship Healy mark the fourth year of America's efforts to claim a share of the expansive oil reserves in the Arctic. One-fifth of the world's available and untapped fuel is located in the far north, the US government estimates.Data collected from the Healy's cruises will be publicly released and \"provide greater scientific insight into relatively unexplored regions of the ocean,\" the state department said this week.The voyages also could mark a new era of cooperation between the US and Canada, which are vying with Russia and Denmark to control parts of the Arctic seafloor. Russia's planting of a flag on the North Pole last year marked an escalation of the underwater land race.The Healy's findings could further enflame the politically charged debate over drilling in protected areas of the Arctic and the US coasts, depending on the data uncovered by the cruise.But the US-Canada cruise is primarily an alliance to aid both countries' scientific goals. Canada brings a seismic mapping system to the table hat uses sea sediments to measure the seafloor, while the Healy brings superior ice-breaking power to the venture.Even if the US can make a case for ownership of Arctic land beyond 200 miles off the Alaskan coast, ratification of the UN law of the sea treaty is likely necessary to formalise a claim. The US is the only nation hunting for Arctic resources that has yet to approve the treaty.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Energy", "Environment", "Oil"], "title": "US partners with Canada to map oil-rich continental shelf"},{"date": "2008-07-31T17:17:46Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A man aboard a Greyhound bus in Canada stabbed a fellow passenger, police said today, and a witness said the victim was decapitated.The Royal Canadian Mounted Police said in a statement that a man was arrested for the homicide which occurred late last night aboard the bus, which was en route from Edmonton, Alberta, to Winnipeg, Manitoba.Authorities declined to name the attacker or victim, and provided no other details about the attack.But passenger Garnet Caton said the victim was stabbed 40 or 50 times by the man sitting next to him. The passenger then severed the man's head with a large knife.Caton said other passengers raced from the bus, and that he and the driver held the door shut from the outside while awaiting police.He said the attacker calmly came to the front of the bus to show off the head.Public Safety Minister Stockwell Day called it a \"horrific\" incident, but did not discuss details of the attack, saying he did not want to jeopardise the investigation.\"We want to make sure that the process is followed as aggressively as possible, a full legal process, and the perpetrator is definitely dealt with the full force of the law,\" he said.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Bus attack in Canada leaves victim decapitated, says witness"},{"date": "2008-08-01T15:35:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Noises off comes to you, this week, in the shape of a maple leaf. Canada has an impressive and thriving theatre blogs scene. Yet while South Park once famously sang \"Blame Canada\" it seems that in recent days Canadians, at least theatrical Canadians, have been intent on blaming each other.Praxis Theatre draws attention to the first example of these controversies - an argument over a promotional video for the SummerWorks theatre festival on the SummerWorks blog.Essentially, the film depicts a group of young female playwrights behaving as if they are slightly ditzy airheads. They are talking about how one of their number, Claudia, has \"really, like, been a model, like, of how to be a really beautiful, hot playwright\", and it ends with them all having a pillow fight. To this outsider's eye, it seems like amusing and cleverly pointed stuff - somewhat echoing this inspired video from The Onion.Yet the video has sparked a furious debate in the comments below the post. One response simply asks, \"what the f?\", and Laura M says that she finds the video \"really quite misogynistic\".Meanwhile, Tara Beagan, one of the playwrights featured, says: \"I think it's absurd that we are being called out as offensive or irresponsible in some way ... What are you seeing that I'm not? What's so awful? Is it that we're admitting, as women, to being both sexual AND intelligent, and that admission is somehow beyond our capacities as a society as yet? Or is it that we're making fun of how some struggle to pigeonhole a creative female if she is also someone who some people think of as attractive?\"But perhaps this degree of passion is no bad thing on either side, and as Mooney on Theatre says: \"People REALLY care about this. They are raging, some at the video, some at the other commenters, some likely at the world. Is it bad that this makes me laugh a little bit, or does it just mean that as a member of the theatre community I can appreciate our quirks?\"A far more serious controversy has broken out in relation to a show at the Winnipeg Fringe festival. The writer and performer Keir Cutler had a hit at the festival with his show Teaching As You Like It, which told the story of a teacher waiting to be arrested for seducing one of his teenage pupils. The show got very favourable reviews, but one audience member was not amused and reported Cutler to Child Find Manitoba - a child protection agency, claiming that the show \"could be used as a textbook for the luring and seduction of young girls\".The Next Stage blog has suggested that, \"In a way, such a vitriolic outburst in response to this kind of play is a huge compliment\". But as Cutler himself says in response: \"I just want to stress that while a vitriolic outburst by an audience member can be expected from time to time; where the letter-writer attacking my play crossed the line is in contacting a child protection agency.\"She never posted anything on the plethora of sites available for Winnipeg Fringe goers. She waited until I left Winnipeg, then started a secret smear campaign. This is totally unacceptable, and does not fall into the area of 'compliment.'\"And finally, as if all that wasn't enough, the Toronto-based actor Ali Momen is blogging about Simon Lee - one of the Judges on Canada's version of How Do you Solve a Problem Like Maria? After asking why he was missing from the final two episodes, he reveals that it was because Lee has just been charged with assault. Momen's response? \"Awesome!\"And there was me thinking that Canada was a gentler place than America.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Noises off: Oh, Canada ..."},{"date": "2008-07-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Mountains, snow, trees, and moose ... we all know what to expect from Canada, despite its vastness. But beaches? And yet, here we are. The temperature is in the high 20s, we've just come out of the water and we're building castles out of the fine, powdery sand. This is Wasaga Beach, less than two hours drive north of Toronto, but a million miles from our preconceptions. We've taken the easy 75-mile freeway drive with two children to escape the stifling heat of the city for a couple of days. Yes, heat. Temperatures in Toronto regularly reach 32C. But driving up Highway 400, past the city of Barrie, the roads get smaller, the malls disappear and we start to detect the lake breeze. In 1934, a tiny single-engine biplane took off from here, making the first flight from Canada to England, landing in Middlesex. The vast stretch, framed by the blue mountains in the far distance, would make a good runway: 14km of sand, hugging the shores of Georgian Bay, part of Lake Huron, the second-largest of the Great Lakes, so vast we can't see the other side or the end of the sand. This is the world's longest freshwater beach and tipped by some of the more enterprising locals to become to Toronto what the Hamptons are to New York. Wasaga Beach may be the fastest-growing town in Ontario, but that only seems in evidence at the top end, where Nancy Island (the site of the sinking of HMS Nancy in 1812) stands guard at the mouth of the Nottawasaga river. Beach One, as it is known, has shops, a giant Walmart and the famous boardwalk dating back to the 1920s, although many of the beachfront stores and shacks were destroyed in a fire last year. But we're staying in the middle of more relaxed Beach Three at Adrian's, a small family resort of clapboard cottages run by Gloria and Brett Shaw, who quit Toronto for the good life out here. The resort is a minute from the beach and dunes, and the silence is punctuated only by the sounds of birds and the waves lapping against the shore. The family resort is intimate, with seven simple self-catering cottages and two condos with air conditioning, dotted around a pleasant wooded area. There are gas-fired barbecues outside the cottages and a fire pit for chillier nights. As we arrive, they're clearing up the fireworks from the previous night's celebrations for Canada Day, but today it's quiet enough for squirrels and raccoons to venture out.Gloria is accommodating when we first make contact from the UK, confirming she can supply a travel cot (called a pack and play in North America) for our seven month old, Jake, at no extra charge. And on arrival there's also a high chair waiting for us. \"Well, we just had it in the house so I thought you could use it,\" says Gloria.The water is shallow a long way from the edge of the beach and there is no tide. The firm, fine sand is perfect for building sand castles - although we have problems dragging four-year-old Ella away from the sandpit at the cottage where she has already made friends with another four-year-old Dora the Explorer-type, named Abi. A few years ago, Wasaga was dominated by teens on spring break and summer holidays. But the local council is now encouraging family tourism, and it has quietened down in recent years. A local teenager working his summer job in a nearby convenience store says \"back in the day, the main drag was bumper to bumper and folks would hop out to buy stuff here while they were waiting.\" Now it's a lot quieter with Beach One the place to go for teens and students while Beaches Three to Six are more laid back, almost deserted in parts. At the smaller Beach Three, there is less choice of places to eat but there's a good Italian, the Little Marina, three minutes from the cabins. Nearby, at Mr Norm's Nephew, locals queue out of the door for the delicious homemade ice-cream and frozen yoghurt.After feeding the giraffes at the wildlife park at Elmvale 20 minutes down the road - which also has antiques shops and a weekly farmers' market - we take the tiny lakeside road heading up toward Tiny (which is, well, tiny), past abandoned beaches and wooden shore homes. Keep going and you soon reach Georgian Bay proper, with its 30,000 islands and 2,000km of shoreline. It's home to the world's largest freshwater island, Manitoulin Island, where an artistic community resides, continuing a tradition that started with the region's famous \"Group of Seven\" 1920s impressionists who were inspired by the rugged beauty of the place. We head further east into the Wasaga Beach provincial park. In winter this is a prime skiing location, as the 40m sand dunes get covered in perfect snow. For us, though, it's a chance to stroll along part of the 50km of hiking trails, accessed from the Wasaga Nordic Centre. It's one of the rarest ecosystems in Canada - the pine-oak savannah, an open forest of oak, pine and prairie plants such as butterfly weed, New Jersey tea, hoary puccoon and big and little bluestem.The whole area is immaculate, and on Wasaga, the beach is raked every day by wardens from the nearby national park who patrol to keep its blue flag status. Back on the beach, Ella and Abi have almost finished their castle, with twigs for a bridge and leaves for flags. As the sun goes down over the bay, it is the perfect holiday scene. Only the mountains in the distance remind us where we are.Getting thereZoom (flyzoom.com) flies to Toronto from several UK airports from \u00a3365.80 rtn inc tax.Where to stayAdrian's, 184 Dunkerron Ave, Wasaga Beach (001 705 429 2913, wasaga.com/adrians/) C$400 for two nights in a 2-bedroom cabin.Further informationcanadatravel.ca, ontariotravel.net. wasagabeach.com. Flight time London-Toronto: 7hrs 55mins. Time difference: -5hrs.", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Family holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Canada: family fun on Wasaga beach"},{"date": "2008-09-03T09:36:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Major ice-shelf loss for CanadaSource: BBC NewsThe ice shelves in Canada's High Arctic have lost a colossal area this year, scientists report. The floating tongues of ice attached to Ellesmere island have seen almost a quarter of their cover break away. Climate change may cut plague cases in US, says studySource: ReutersRare outbreaks of plague in the United States seem to match climate shifts over the Pacific Ocean in a hint that global warming may make the region too hot and dry for the disease, scientists said on Wednesday.Oil bubbles point to eco disaster in paradiseSource: New ScientistSixty years on and the impacts of the second world war are still being felt. A sunken oil tanker, one of dozens on the bottom of Micronesia's Chuuk Lagoon, is releasing streams of purple diesel bubbles. On July 31, the resulting oil slick was 5km long.Birds 'behave like football hooligans'Source: Telegraph.co.ukBirds behave like football fans after seeing their side beaten by a rival team, researchers have found. They sing together in exactly the same way as football crowds chant to taunt the opposition.Italy next solar hot spot, Spain coolsSource: Environmental News NetworkItaly could be Europe's next big solar power market after Spain, which will slash generous subsidies later this month, a leading solar industy figure told Reuters on Tuesday.", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Greenwatch: Major ice-shelf loss for Canada"},{"date": "2008-08-07T22:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Scouts travelling on a coach in Canada were tonight involved in a head-on crash with a lorry.Sixteen people were taken to hospital after the tour bus collided with the lorry in eastern Ontario shortly after 6pm.The group are from the north west of England, said Scout spokesman Simon Carter.None of the injuries are thought to be life-threatening, he added. The youngsters are believed to be aged between 14 and 18. Their leaders were also on the bus.Describing damage to the vehicles as \"excessive\", City of Kawartha Lakes Constable Mark Boileau told CTV Newsnet: \"It appears it's a head-on collision between the two vehicles.\"The police officer said collision investigators were examining the scene to find out what caused the crash.He said it was not yet known if weather was a factor.\"It was raining up here prior to the accident but that will be determined by the investigation,\" he added.The British High Commission in Ottawa said it was aware of the crash.\"We have been in touch with the local authorities,\" a spokeswoman said. \"We have dispatched consular staff to the scene.\"Carter, spokesman for the Scout Association, said the injured passengers are part of a group of 102 Scouts and leaders from west Lancashire who have been on an adventure-based trip to Canada for about a week.\"They were travelling back to Toronto in two coaches - they were about 150 miles away,\" he said.\"One of the coaches was involved in a crash with what appears to be an articulated lorry.\"Some young people sustained injuries. Fortunately none of them are life-threatening - they are cases of broken bones and shock.\"The emergency services were on the scene exceptionally quickly.\"We have a team of people in the UK speaking to parents and letting them know the majority of the group is OK.\"A spokeswoman at Ross Memorial hospital in Lindsay said 16 people were admitted to hospital.Kim Coulter, community relations co-ordinator at the hospital in Ottawa, said: \"The hospital has received 16 patients who, to the best of my knowledge, are all British.\"She said all the patients were being given X-rays and CT scans to determine the extent of their injuries but as far as she had been told none of their injuries are life-threatening.She added that the British Consulate in Ottawa had been given all the patients' details and that an international phone line was being set up so the injured could contact family.Scouts are aged between 14 and 18.Constable Boileau told Sky News one passenger, understood to be a teenage girl, suffered serious but not life-threatening injuries.\"We are just hoping they recover and everybody else will be OK,\" he said. \"It's going to be an investigation that takes some time.\"He said there were 36 people on board the coach.David Thornton, an officer with the scout movement in Lancashire, said the youngsters were from different scouting groups across the county.They had travelled to Canada on July 28 and had been to two camps in the country and were due to fly back to the UK on Monday.He was not able to give any further details.", "tags": ["UK news", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "British scouts hurt in Canada bus crash"},{"date": "2008-07-01T12:04:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is putting skilled British workers on a fast track for immigration visas to exploit the UK's soaring cost of living, the Daily Mail reports today.\"(Canadian) officials believe superior public services and the ability to weather economic turmoil will lure Britons fed up with fuel and food prices and with the state of schools and hospitals,\" the paper says.The Alberta employment minister, Hector Goudreau, currently in Britain, believes you could sell a small flat in London and buy a large detached house with garden in Canada for the same amount.The Mail describes it as one of the \"most audacious recruitments raids since Australia poached a million Britons\", and is not amused. The paper has commissioned the former Telegraph New York correspondent Philip Delves Broughton to put Britons off leaving for the world's second-largest country. \"Canada is the big, earnest, empty restaurant which can't understand why the scrappier joint next door is hopping. People just do not want to go ... the climate makes Britain's look positively Mediterranean ... In the dramatic arts, Canada's greatest recent contribution is the incomprehensible, semi-nude contortion act of Cirque du Soleil. And as for its newspapers, they are lifeless and hobbled by the provincialism which divides the country.\"But not all British expats in Canada are so nonplussed, as the Guardian's Helen Pidd found out when she covered this story three months ago.\"Even the criminals are friendly, Russ Harper, 41, an ex-military man who served in the North Yorkshire force for eight years, said. \"They hardly ever even run away, and often when you stop them, they admit there are warrants out for their arrest. They say 'yes sir' and 'no sir', even when you're arresting them.\"Canada is not without its darker side - the rendition of Maher Arar, for example - but the country is regularly ranked in the top five places to live in the world. Alberta's immigration website doesn't have to try too hard to depict a province of beautiful open spaces and carefree children flying kites. The landscape is stunning. And, most important of all, the weather doesn't look too bad today, either.", "tags": ["World news", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "A Daily Mail guide to Canada"},{"date": "2008-08-12T19:34:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "As the battle for control of the Arctic's energy resources heats up, the US is partnering with its territorial rival Canada for a cruise to map areas of the oil-rich continental shelf.In addition to the Canadian cruise next month, the US state department is slated to launch a preliminary voyage tomorrow that will use echo-sounder technology to produce a 3D map of the Chukchi Cap, located about 600 miles north of Alaska.The two cruises by the US coast guard cutter ship Healy mark the fourth year of America's efforts to claim a share of the expansive oil reserves in the Arctic. One-fifth of the world's available and untapped fuel is located in the far north, the US government estimates.Data collected from the Healy's cruises will be publicly released and \"provide greater scientific insight into relatively unexplored regions of the ocean,\" the state department said this week.The voyages also could mark a new era of cooperation between the US and Canada, which are vying with Russia and Denmark to control parts of the Arctic seafloor. Russia's planting of a flag on the North Pole last year marked an escalation of the underwater land race.The Healy's findings could further enflame the politically charged debate over drilling in protected areas of the Arctic and the US coasts, depending on the data uncovered by the cruise.But the US-Canada cruise is primarily an alliance to aid both countries' scientific goals. Canada brings a seismic mapping system to the table hat uses sea sediments to measure the seafloor, while the Healy brings superior ice-breaking power to the venture.Even if the US can make a case for ownership of Arctic land beyond 200 miles off the Alaskan coast, ratification of the UN law of the sea treaty is likely necessary to formalise a claim. The US is the only nation hunting for Arctic resources that has yet to approve the treaty.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Energy", "Environment", "Oil"], "title": "US partners with Canada to map oil-rich continental shelf"},{"date": "2008-07-31T17:17:46Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A man aboard a Greyhound bus in Canada stabbed a fellow passenger, police said today, and a witness said the victim was decapitated.The Royal Canadian Mounted Police said in a statement that a man was arrested for the homicide which occurred late last night aboard the bus, which was en route from Edmonton, Alberta, to Winnipeg, Manitoba.Authorities declined to name the attacker or victim, and provided no other details about the attack.But passenger Garnet Caton said the victim was stabbed 40 or 50 times by the man sitting next to him. The passenger then severed the man's head with a large knife.Caton said other passengers raced from the bus, and that he and the driver held the door shut from the outside while awaiting police.He said the attacker calmly came to the front of the bus to show off the head.Public Safety Minister Stockwell Day called it a \"horrific\" incident, but did not discuss details of the attack, saying he did not want to jeopardise the investigation.\"We want to make sure that the process is followed as aggressively as possible, a full legal process, and the perpetrator is definitely dealt with the full force of the law,\" he said.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Bus attack in Canada leaves victim decapitated, says witness"},{"date": "2008-07-17T11:07:57Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government was today under fire for refusing to seek the repatriation of a teenage national held at Guant\u00e1namo Bay, who was shown desperately pleading for his country's help in recently released footage.Liberal politicians and human rights groups criticised Canada's conservative prime minister, Stephen Harper, for the lack of action saying it undermined attempts to eradicate the use of child soldiers.Toronto-born Omar Khadr's US military lawyer called on Harper to \"stand up and act like a prime minister of Canada\" and demand the teenager's return.Footage of Khadr's Guant\u00e1namo interrogation was released this week by his lawyers, in the hope it would spur the government into bringing him into the Canadian justice system.However, a spokesman for Harper said scenes of Khadr sobbing for his mother as he was interrogated by Canadian officials in 2003, would not sway the government's position.\"These videos were in possession of the previous government when they decided to pursue the judicial process for Mr Khadr to have his day in court in Guant\u00e1namo,\" Harper's chief spokesman, Kory Teneycke, said.\"The information is not new. We can't ignore the serious charges Mr Khadr is facing. The proper forum for determining his guilt or innocence is a judicial process not a political process. We're not affected by what's on the cover of newspapers.\"Khadr's military lawyer, Lieutenant Commander Bill Kuebler, along with his criticism of Harper, said yesterday that the military tribunals at Guant\u00e1namo \"aren't designed to be fair\" and designed \"to produce convictions\".He said anyone who watched Khadr whimpering for his mother and still believed he had vowed to die fighting with a bunch of hardened al-Qaida terrorists is \"crazy\".\"The tape shows Omar Khadr not as a hardened terrorist but as a frightened boy.\"\"It just shows how unreliable anything that they extracted from this kid is would be at trial.\"Khadr, who was shown in the video aged 16 and questioned after severe sleep deprivation, will have to remain at Guant\u00e1namo until he is prosecuted for war crimes in front of a special US military tribunal, later this year.The liberal Canadian senator and ex-general Romeo Dallaire told Canada Television's (CTV) Newsnet programme that Khadr is a child solider and should be treated and given the same rehabilitation that Canada devotes to other child soldiers around the world.\"We're getting stabbed in the back,\" Dallaire told the cable channel. \"We have worked for years to assist other nations in eradicating the use of children in conflict. But our own country doesn't even want to recognise that our own citizen (is a child soldier). No matter what his politics are, it's totally irrelevant. \"He's a child soldier that was abused and he's a child soldier that needs to be brought back into a formal process we signed up for.\" Khadr, the son of an alleged al-Qaida financier, is accused of throwing a grenade that killed a US Special Forces soldier during a 2002 firefight in Afghanistan in which he was badly wounded. He was captured when he was 15 and could face life in prison if convictedAmnesty International has described him as the first person to face trial anywhere in the world for war crimes allegedly committed when he was a juvenile.The seven hours of grainy footage, recorded over four days of questioning by Canadian intelligence agents in 2003, shows Khadr breaking down in tears. He is seen pleading for medical help for chest and back wounds that he said had not healed six months after his capture. He also described the torture and abuse he suffered at the hand of US officials.Khadr denied killing Army Sergteant 1st Class Christopher Speer, of Albuquerque, New Mexico, during the 2002 battle in Afghanistan.The footage was the first to publicly show interrogations inside the US military prison complex.", "tags": ["Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "Canada", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "Canada ignores calls for Guant\u00e1namo youth to come home"},{"date": "2008-08-01T15:35:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Noises off comes to you, this week, in the shape of a maple leaf. Canada has an impressive and thriving theatre blogs scene. Yet while South Park once famously sang \"Blame Canada\" it seems that in recent days Canadians, at least theatrical Canadians, have been intent on blaming each other.Praxis Theatre draws attention to the first example of these controversies - an argument over a promotional video for the SummerWorks theatre festival on the SummerWorks blog.Essentially, the film depicts a group of young female playwrights behaving as if they are slightly ditzy airheads. They are talking about how one of their number, Claudia, has \"really, like, been a model, like, of how to be a really beautiful, hot playwright\", and it ends with them all having a pillow fight. To this outsider's eye, it seems like amusing and cleverly pointed stuff - somewhat echoing this inspired video from The Onion.Yet the video has sparked a furious debate in the comments below the post. One response simply asks, \"what the f?\", and Laura M says that she finds the video \"really quite misogynistic\".Meanwhile, Tara Beagan, one of the playwrights featured, says: \"I think it's absurd that we are being called out as offensive or irresponsible in some way ... What are you seeing that I'm not? What's so awful? Is it that we're admitting, as women, to being both sexual AND intelligent, and that admission is somehow beyond our capacities as a society as yet? Or is it that we're making fun of how some struggle to pigeonhole a creative female if she is also someone who some people think of as attractive?\"But perhaps this degree of passion is no bad thing on either side, and as Mooney on Theatre says: \"People REALLY care about this. They are raging, some at the video, some at the other commenters, some likely at the world. Is it bad that this makes me laugh a little bit, or does it just mean that as a member of the theatre community I can appreciate our quirks?\"A far more serious controversy has broken out in relation to a show at the Winnipeg Fringe festival. The writer and performer Keir Cutler had a hit at the festival with his show Teaching As You Like It, which told the story of a teacher waiting to be arrested for seducing one of his teenage pupils. The show got very favourable reviews, but one audience member was not amused and reported Cutler to Child Find Manitoba - a child protection agency, claiming that the show \"could be used as a textbook for the luring and seduction of young girls\".The Next Stage blog has suggested that, \"In a way, such a vitriolic outburst in response to this kind of play is a huge compliment\". But as Cutler himself says in response: \"I just want to stress that while a vitriolic outburst by an audience member can be expected from time to time; where the letter-writer attacking my play crossed the line is in contacting a child protection agency.\"She never posted anything on the plethora of sites available for Winnipeg Fringe goers. She waited until I left Winnipeg, then started a secret smear campaign. This is totally unacceptable, and does not fall into the area of 'compliment.'\"And finally, as if all that wasn't enough, the Toronto-based actor Ali Momen is blogging about Simon Lee - one of the Judges on Canada's version of How Do you Solve a Problem Like Maria? After asking why he was missing from the final two episodes, he reveals that it was because Lee has just been charged with assault. Momen's response? \"Awesome!\"And there was me thinking that Canada was a gentler place than America.", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "Culture"], "title": "Noises off: Oh, Canada ..."},{"date": "2008-07-25T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Mountains, snow, trees, and moose ... we all know what to expect from Canada, despite its vastness. But beaches? And yet, here we are. The temperature is in the high 20s, we've just come out of the water and we're building castles out of the fine, powdery sand. This is Wasaga Beach, less than two hours drive north of Toronto, but a million miles from our preconceptions. We've taken the easy 75-mile freeway drive with two children to escape the stifling heat of the city for a couple of days. Yes, heat. Temperatures in Toronto regularly reach 32C. But driving up Highway 400, past the city of Barrie, the roads get smaller, the malls disappear and we start to detect the lake breeze. In 1934, a tiny single-engine biplane took off from here, making the first flight from Canada to England, landing in Middlesex. The vast stretch, framed by the blue mountains in the far distance, would make a good runway: 14km of sand, hugging the shores of Georgian Bay, part of Lake Huron, the second-largest of the Great Lakes, so vast we can't see the other side or the end of the sand. This is the world's longest freshwater beach and tipped by some of the more enterprising locals to become to Toronto what the Hamptons are to New York. Wasaga Beach may be the fastest-growing town in Ontario, but that only seems in evidence at the top end, where Nancy Island (the site of the sinking of HMS Nancy in 1812) stands guard at the mouth of the Nottawasaga river. Beach One, as it is known, has shops, a giant Walmart and the famous boardwalk dating back to the 1920s, although many of the beachfront stores and shacks were destroyed in a fire last year. But we're staying in the middle of more relaxed Beach Three at Adrian's, a small family resort of clapboard cottages run by Gloria and Brett Shaw, who quit Toronto for the good life out here. The resort is a minute from the beach and dunes, and the silence is punctuated only by the sounds of birds and the waves lapping against the shore. The family resort is intimate, with seven simple self-catering cottages and two condos with air conditioning, dotted around a pleasant wooded area. There are gas-fired barbecues outside the cottages and a fire pit for chillier nights. As we arrive, they're clearing up the fireworks from the previous night's celebrations for Canada Day, but today it's quiet enough for squirrels and raccoons to venture out.Gloria is accommodating when we first make contact from the UK, confirming she can supply a travel cot (called a pack and play in North America) for our seven month old, Jake, at no extra charge. And on arrival there's also a high chair waiting for us. \"Well, we just had it in the house so I thought you could use it,\" says Gloria.The water is shallow a long way from the edge of the beach and there is no tide. The firm, fine sand is perfect for building sand castles - although we have problems dragging four-year-old Ella away from the sandpit at the cottage where she has already made friends with another four-year-old Dora the Explorer-type, named Abi. A few years ago, Wasaga was dominated by teens on spring break and summer holidays. But the local council is now encouraging family tourism, and it has quietened down in recent years. A local teenager working his summer job in a nearby convenience store says \"back in the day, the main drag was bumper to bumper and folks would hop out to buy stuff here while they were waiting.\" Now it's a lot quieter with Beach One the place to go for teens and students while Beaches Three to Six are more laid back, almost deserted in parts. At the smaller Beach Three, there is less choice of places to eat but there's a good Italian, the Little Marina, three minutes from the cabins. Nearby, at Mr Norm's Nephew, locals queue out of the door for the delicious homemade ice-cream and frozen yoghurt.After feeding the giraffes at the wildlife park at Elmvale 20 minutes down the road - which also has antiques shops and a weekly farmers' market - we take the tiny lakeside road heading up toward Tiny (which is, well, tiny), past abandoned beaches and wooden shore homes. Keep going and you soon reach Georgian Bay proper, with its 30,000 islands and 2,000km of shoreline. It's home to the world's largest freshwater island, Manitoulin Island, where an artistic community resides, continuing a tradition that started with the region's famous \"Group of Seven\" 1920s impressionists who were inspired by the rugged beauty of the place. We head further east into the Wasaga Beach provincial park. In winter this is a prime skiing location, as the 40m sand dunes get covered in perfect snow. For us, though, it's a chance to stroll along part of the 50km of hiking trails, accessed from the Wasaga Nordic Centre. It's one of the rarest ecosystems in Canada - the pine-oak savannah, an open forest of oak, pine and prairie plants such as butterfly weed, New Jersey tea, hoary puccoon and big and little bluestem.The whole area is immaculate, and on Wasaga, the beach is raked every day by wardens from the nearby national park who patrol to keep its blue flag status. Back on the beach, Ella and Abi have almost finished their castle, with twigs for a bridge and leaves for flags. As the sun goes down over the bay, it is the perfect holiday scene. Only the mountains in the distance remind us where we are.Getting thereZoom (flyzoom.com) flies to Toronto from several UK airports from \u00a3365.80 rtn inc tax.Where to stayAdrian's, 184 Dunkerron Ave, Wasaga Beach (001 705 429 2913, wasaga.com/adrians/) C$400 for two nights in a 2-bedroom cabin.Further informationcanadatravel.ca, ontariotravel.net. wasagabeach.com. Flight time London-Toronto: 7hrs 55mins. Time difference: -5hrs.", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Family holidays", "Beach holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Canada: family fun on Wasaga beach"},{"date": "2008-09-03T09:36:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Major ice-shelf loss for CanadaSource: BBC NewsThe ice shelves in Canada's High Arctic have lost a colossal area this year, scientists report. The floating tongues of ice attached to Ellesmere island have seen almost a quarter of their cover break away. Climate change may cut plague cases in US, says studySource: ReutersRare outbreaks of plague in the United States seem to match climate shifts over the Pacific Ocean in a hint that global warming may make the region too hot and dry for the disease, scientists said on Wednesday.Oil bubbles point to eco disaster in paradiseSource: New ScientistSixty years on and the impacts of the second world war are still being felt. A sunken oil tanker, one of dozens on the bottom of Micronesia's Chuuk Lagoon, is releasing streams of purple diesel bubbles. On July 31, the resulting oil slick was 5km long.Birds 'behave like football hooligans'Source: Telegraph.co.ukBirds behave like football fans after seeing their side beaten by a rival team, researchers have found. They sing together in exactly the same way as football crowds chant to taunt the opposition.Italy next solar hot spot, Spain coolsSource: Environmental News NetworkItaly could be Europe's next big solar power market after Spain, which will slash generous subsidies later this month, a leading solar industy figure told Reuters on Tuesday.", "tags": ["Environment"], "title": "Greenwatch: Major ice-shelf loss for Canada"},{"date": "2008-08-07T22:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Scouts travelling on a coach in Canada were tonight involved in a head-on crash with a lorry.Sixteen people were taken to hospital after the tour bus collided with the lorry in eastern Ontario shortly after 6pm.The group are from the north west of England, said Scout spokesman Simon Carter.None of the injuries are thought to be life-threatening, he added. The youngsters are believed to be aged between 14 and 18. Their leaders were also on the bus.Describing damage to the vehicles as \"excessive\", City of Kawartha Lakes Constable Mark Boileau told CTV Newsnet: \"It appears it's a head-on collision between the two vehicles.\"The police officer said collision investigators were examining the scene to find out what caused the crash.He said it was not yet known if weather was a factor.\"It was raining up here prior to the accident but that will be determined by the investigation,\" he added.The British High Commission in Ottawa said it was aware of the crash.\"We have been in touch with the local authorities,\" a spokeswoman said. \"We have dispatched consular staff to the scene.\"Carter, spokesman for the Scout Association, said the injured passengers are part of a group of 102 Scouts and leaders from west Lancashire who have been on an adventure-based trip to Canada for about a week.\"They were travelling back to Toronto in two coaches - they were about 150 miles away,\" he said.\"One of the coaches was involved in a crash with what appears to be an articulated lorry.\"Some young people sustained injuries. Fortunately none of them are life-threatening - they are cases of broken bones and shock.\"The emergency services were on the scene exceptionally quickly.\"We have a team of people in the UK speaking to parents and letting them know the majority of the group is OK.\"A spokeswoman at Ross Memorial hospital in Lindsay said 16 people were admitted to hospital.Kim Coulter, community relations co-ordinator at the hospital in Ottawa, said: \"The hospital has received 16 patients who, to the best of my knowledge, are all British.\"She said all the patients were being given X-rays and CT scans to determine the extent of their injuries but as far as she had been told none of their injuries are life-threatening.She added that the British Consulate in Ottawa had been given all the patients' details and that an international phone line was being set up so the injured could contact family.Scouts are aged between 14 and 18.Constable Boileau told Sky News one passenger, understood to be a teenage girl, suffered serious but not life-threatening injuries.\"We are just hoping they recover and everybody else will be OK,\" he said. \"It's going to be an investigation that takes some time.\"He said there were 36 people on board the coach.David Thornton, an officer with the scout movement in Lancashire, said the youngsters were from different scouting groups across the county.They had travelled to Canada on July 28 and had been to two camps in the country and were due to fly back to the UK on Monday.He was not able to give any further details.", "tags": ["UK news", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "British scouts hurt in Canada bus crash"},{"date": "2008-07-01T12:04:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is putting skilled British workers on a fast track for immigration visas to exploit the UK's soaring cost of living, the Daily Mail reports today.\"(Canadian) officials believe superior public services and the ability to weather economic turmoil will lure Britons fed up with fuel and food prices and with the state of schools and hospitals,\" the paper says.The Alberta employment minister, Hector Goudreau, currently in Britain, believes you could sell a small flat in London and buy a large detached house with garden in Canada for the same amount.The Mail describes it as one of the \"most audacious recruitments raids since Australia poached a million Britons\", and is not amused. The paper has commissioned the former Telegraph New York correspondent Philip Delves Broughton to put Britons off leaving for the world's second-largest country. \"Canada is the big, earnest, empty restaurant which can't understand why the scrappier joint next door is hopping. People just do not want to go ... the climate makes Britain's look positively Mediterranean ... In the dramatic arts, Canada's greatest recent contribution is the incomprehensible, semi-nude contortion act of Cirque du Soleil. And as for its newspapers, they are lifeless and hobbled by the provincialism which divides the country.\"But not all British expats in Canada are so nonplussed, as the Guardian's Helen Pidd found out when she covered this story three months ago.\"Even the criminals are friendly, Russ Harper, 41, an ex-military man who served in the North Yorkshire force for eight years, said. \"They hardly ever even run away, and often when you stop them, they admit there are warrants out for their arrest. They say 'yes sir' and 'no sir', even when you're arresting them.\"Canada is not without its darker side - the rendition of Maher Arar, for example - but the country is regularly ranked in the top five places to live in the world. Alberta's immigration website doesn't have to try too hard to depict a province of beautiful open spaces and carefree children flying kites. The landscape is stunning. And, most important of all, the weather doesn't look too bad today, either.", "tags": ["World news", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "A Daily Mail guide to Canada"},{"date": "2008-08-12T19:34:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "As the battle for control of the Arctic's energy resources heats up, the US is partnering with its territorial rival Canada for a cruise to map areas of the oil-rich continental shelf.In addition to the Canadian cruise next month, the US state department is slated to launch a preliminary voyage tomorrow that will use echo-sounder technology to produce a 3D map of the Chukchi Cap, located about 600 miles north of Alaska.The two cruises by the US coast guard cutter ship Healy mark the fourth year of America's efforts to claim a share of the expansive oil reserves in the Arctic. One-fifth of the world's available and untapped fuel is located in the far north, the US government estimates.Data collected from the Healy's cruises will be publicly released and \"provide greater scientific insight into relatively unexplored regions of the ocean,\" the state department said this week.The voyages also could mark a new era of cooperation between the US and Canada, which are vying with Russia and Denmark to control parts of the Arctic seafloor. Russia's planting of a flag on the North Pole last year marked an escalation of the underwater land race.The Healy's findings could further enflame the politically charged debate over drilling in protected areas of the Arctic and the US coasts, depending on the data uncovered by the cruise.But the US-Canada cruise is primarily an alliance to aid both countries' scientific goals. Canada brings a seismic mapping system to the table hat uses sea sediments to measure the seafloor, while the Healy brings superior ice-breaking power to the venture.Even if the US can make a case for ownership of Arctic land beyond 200 miles off the Alaskan coast, ratification of the UN law of the sea treaty is likely necessary to formalise a claim. The US is the only nation hunting for Arctic resources that has yet to approve the treaty.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Energy", "Environment", "Oil"], "title": "US partners with Canada to map oil-rich continental shelf"},{"date": "2008-07-31T17:17:46Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A man aboard a Greyhound bus in Canada stabbed a fellow passenger, police said today, and a witness said the victim was decapitated.The Royal Canadian Mounted Police said in a statement that a man was arrested for the homicide which occurred late last night aboard the bus, which was en route from Edmonton, Alberta, to Winnipeg, Manitoba.Authorities declined to name the attacker or victim, and provided no other details about the attack.But passenger Garnet Caton said the victim was stabbed 40 or 50 times by the man sitting next to him. The passenger then severed the man's head with a large knife.Caton said other passengers raced from the bus, and that he and the driver held the door shut from the outside while awaiting police.He said the attacker calmly came to the front of the bus to show off the head.Public Safety Minister Stockwell Day called it a \"horrific\" incident, but did not discuss details of the attack, saying he did not want to jeopardise the investigation.\"We want to make sure that the process is followed as aggressively as possible, a full legal process, and the perpetrator is definitely dealt with the full force of the law,\" he said.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Bus attack in Canada leaves victim decapitated, says witness"},{"date": "2008-07-17T11:07:57Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government was today under fire for refusing to seek the repatriation of a teenage national held at Guant\u00e1namo Bay, who was shown desperately pleading for his country's help in recently released footage.Liberal politicians and human rights groups criticised Canada's conservative prime minister, Stephen Harper, for the lack of action saying it undermined attempts to eradicate the use of child soldiers.Toronto-born Omar Khadr's US military lawyer called on Harper to \"stand up and act like a prime minister of Canada\" and demand the teenager's return.Footage of Khadr's Guant\u00e1namo interrogation was released this week by his lawyers, in the hope it would spur the government into bringing him into the Canadian justice system.However, a spokesman for Harper said scenes of Khadr sobbing for his mother as he was interrogated by Canadian officials in 2003, would not sway the government's position.\"These videos were in possession of the previous government when they decided to pursue the judicial process for Mr Khadr to have his day in court in Guant\u00e1namo,\" Harper's chief spokesman, Kory Teneycke, said.\"The information is not new. We can't ignore the serious charges Mr Khadr is facing. The proper forum for determining his guilt or innocence is a judicial process not a political process. We're not affected by what's on the cover of newspapers.\"Khadr's military lawyer, Lieutenant Commander Bill Kuebler, along with his criticism of Harper, said yesterday that the military tribunals at Guant\u00e1namo \"aren't designed to be fair\" and designed \"to produce convictions\".He said anyone who watched Khadr whimpering for his mother and still believed he had vowed to die fighting with a bunch of hardened al-Qaida terrorists is \"crazy\".\"The tape shows Omar Khadr not as a hardened terrorist but as a frightened boy.\"\"It just shows how unreliable anything that they extracted from this kid is would be at trial.\"Khadr, who was shown in the video aged 16 and questioned after severe sleep deprivation, will have to remain at Guant\u00e1namo until he is prosecuted for war crimes in front of a special US military tribunal, later this year.The liberal Canadian senator and ex-general Romeo Dallaire told Canada Television's (CTV) Newsnet programme that Khadr is a child solider and should be treated and given the same rehabilitation that Canada devotes to other child soldiers around the world.\"We're getting stabbed in the back,\" Dallaire told the cable channel. \"We have worked for years to assist other nations in eradicating the use of children in conflict. But our own country doesn't even want to recognise that our own citizen (is a child soldier). No matter what his politics are, it's totally irrelevant. \"He's a child soldier that was abused and he's a child soldier that needs to be brought back into a formal process we signed up for.\" Khadr, the son of an alleged al-Qaida financier, is accused of throwing a grenade that killed a US Special Forces soldier during a 2002 firefight in Afghanistan in which he was badly wounded. He was captured when he was 15 and could face life in prison if convictedAmnesty International has described him as the first person to face trial anywhere in the world for war crimes allegedly committed when he was a juvenile.The seven hours of grainy footage, recorded over four days of questioning by Canadian intelligence agents in 2003, shows Khadr breaking down in tears. He is seen pleading for medical help for chest and back wounds that he said had not healed six months after his capture. He also described the torture and abuse he suffered at the hand of US officials.Khadr denied killing Army Sergteant 1st Class Christopher Speer, of Albuquerque, New Mexico, during the 2002 battle in Afghanistan.The footage was the first to publicly show interrogations inside the US military prison complex.", "tags": ["Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "Canada", "US news", "World news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "Canada ignores calls for Guant\u00e1namo youth to come home"},{"date": "2008-07-02T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Pissed-off workers of Britain, Alberta wants YOU.I beg your pardon? Alberta. It's a western province of Canada. The Rockies? Edmonton? Calgary, had the Olympics in 1988? A variety of scenic spots named after various homely minor Royals of the Victorian era?I know what will ring British bells. The tar sands. Alberta has oil, sadly mixed up with tar deep below the ground and extracting it will destroy water and land for generations to come, but never mind. Oil is the most-wanted fluid on earth next to water. Alberta has it, billions of dollars are rolling in and Alberta wants you to have a share because there aren't enough Canadians to get the muck out of the earth.The province's minister of employment and immigration, an amiable farmer named Hector Goudreau, has been prowling the UK trying to lure what he sees as under-respected, underpaid, over-mortgaged Brits to come to sunny Alberta. The Mail on Sunday called his trip \"one of the most audacious raids since Australia poached a million Britons \u2013 known as the \u00a310 Poms after the fare they paid \u2013 in the 1950s and 1960s.\" It really thinks Brits wish to trade one country's high prices and dire schools and hospitals for another's.But the Mail has it wrong, no surprises there, because it takes Goudreau at his word. Alberta wants skilled immigrants. If you can pick your way through the management jargon favoured by the province's government-is-a-business websites, they mean doctors, teachers, nurses and oilfield techies who already have a firm job offer. Interestingly, as of today, only nurses are listed in the \"skilled immigrants wanted\" section.Alberta welcomed 14,000 foreigners in 2000, 20,000 in 2006 and claims it wants 50,000 this year, but it is by no means clear what they would do. The official provincial website only has 100 job postings at the moment, a lot of them for hotel maids and short-order cooks. This means the temporary workers plan, which is desperate by definition.Marina Lewycka just wrote a novel, Two Caravans, about the miseries of foreign strawberry pickers in Dover. Change strawberries to black goop and you have a recipe for suffering. The Alberta boom means huge prices for crap housing (so no change there, Londoners) and you'll have an intense earning experience accompanied by the Canadian winter, loneliness without your family, a taste of alcoholism, and a flight back home when the tar runs out.I'm not sure if Britons are interested in Canadian motives, but our country is going through weird changes. The pro-immigrant federal Liberal party was voted out in favour of the profoundly anti-immigrant Conservatives. They and the provincial Alberta government compete to see who can be more rightwing. So I have doubts about the fast-track skilled immigrants program, which is intrinsically whim-based and a good way to conceal racist immigration rules.I just received a sad email from an American immigrant who says moving to newly conservative Canada is like seeing a cool band from your youth. But when you get to the reunion concert, it's only the drummer and the bass player from the original band.I'm sure Hector Goudreau means well. He was deputy mayor of Falher, population 1,109, the \"honey capital of Canada\". It has a giant bee on a stick. I suspect this was his first international trip, beyond that trip to Montana to buy seeds. A John Prescott without the sophistication and success with the ladies, he's in Britain because he thinks it's packed with white cockneys longing to clean Calgary's chimneys, guv.If the NHS really feels its resentful junior doctors are going to be raided by colonials with oil, it should know that Canada has plenty of foreign-trained doctors who cannot get accreditation here and who are driving taxis with an understandable sense of grievance. I suspect they would move to Alberta with pleasure, being first in line and all. So it's not all blue skies. Have your job offer framed and ready when you arrive at the border.", "tags": ["Canada", "Immigration and asylum", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Heather Mallick: Come to Canada! But only if you've got a job"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:10:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Foreigners talking loudly about moving to Canada should \"President McCain-Palin\" or \"Prime Minister Cameron\" come to pass, take heed. My beloved country has just held a pointless election, a real doughnut, and made a fool of itself, courtesy of its prime minister.Oh God, I am so embarrassed.I'm taking the Canadian flag off my luggage tag and telling everyone I'm from Iceland. Now there's a shy puss of a country that screws up with elan.Is there some way I can blame George W Bush for Canada's humiliation? You betcha, as Sarah Palin would say. Our prime minister, Stephen Harper, a strange man with an awkward gait, an absence of social skills, and the dress sense of that guy at the back of the hardware store who sorts nails for a living, is alone in this world in that he still adores Bush. Just as the US is about to turf the man who brought them a disastrous war, Alp-sized deficits and an economic collapse that would give Herbert Hoover pause, Harper this week tried to turn his minority government into a majority one that would transform Canada into Bushworld, eight years after it was fashionable.He failed. And he failed with stasis, which is worse. There are three wings to Canadian political life. Harper, the Conservative PM, is a rightwing extremist, although he doesn't suck up like Cameron. He is an anti-choice, pro-prison, poverty-ignoring, food-safety-privatising, arts-ridiculing, Afghanistan war-loving, cowboy hat-wearing guy. The Liberals, the nation's natural rulers, are in the middle of the road like an expiring woodchuck. They are sensible people without passion; they own just the one house; they're New Labour without the ratlike cunning, without the Cherie, shall we say. The New Democratic party is old Labour.Harper began passing laws making Canada more like the States. His most complimentary adjective was \"CEO-like\". He wants life sentences for 14-year-old murderers, of whom we have maybe three in a nation of 33 million citizens. He wants to build more prisons, ban safe-injection sites for heroin addicts, privatise universal healthcare, make the foetus not just a person, but someone who can dress for success \u2013 you know the drill.And then he passed a law saying election dates had to be fixed, just like in the States. Weird, Canadians thought, but the governor-general can handle that.Suddenly last month, he thought he was sufficiently buff to win an election big-time, so he broke his own new law to call one. A week later, the world economic system collapsed. Canadians worry. We are still hewers of wood and drawers of water, but the spruce pine beetle is destroying our forests. And the Americans want our water to fill the fountains of Las Vegas. They have drones, we don't: they'll have our water.So if we're going down, if we're going to lose our jobs and move back in with our parents and spend a slate-grey winter watching Canadian Idol, we'd really rather not have a prime minister who, when confronted with his own small child at his school, reaches down and shakes the child's hand. We'd like a human being in charge. Hey, maybe someone who gets all emotional about mothers fretting at kitchen tables and such, like the Democrats have. Where's our Obama? Oh quit dreaming, Canadians. So we voted. As in the movie Groundhog Day, where the post-election morning was the same as the last one, with the result being another minority government born of a quiet desperation that won't be soothed until the Liberals get a new leader, not a sweet smart guy like St\u00e9phane Dion, but someone with claws like Michael Ignatieff, a Canadian you Brits took to your bosom some years ago.Thanks for sending him back. It's getting hot here, our trees are sawdust and our ice is melting. Canada needs a smart decisive cynic. Anything to haul that crushed woodchuck off the road.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "George Bush", "Americas"], "title": "Heather Mallick: Canada has just re-elected a PM who wants to recreate Bushworld"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:10:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Foreigners talking loudly about moving to Canada should \"President McCain-Palin\" or \"Prime Minister Cameron\" come to pass, take heed. My beloved country has just held a pointless election, a real doughnut, and made a fool of itself, courtesy of its prime minister.Oh God, I am so embarrassed.I'm taking the Canadian flag off my luggage tag and telling everyone I'm from Iceland. Now there's a shy puss of a country that screws up with elan.Is there some way I can blame George W Bush for Canada's humiliation? You betcha, as Sarah Palin would say. Our prime minister, Stephen Harper, a strange man with an awkward gait, an absence of social skills, and the dress sense of that guy at the back of the hardware store who sorts nails for a living, is alone in this world in that he still adores Bush. Just as the US is about to turf the man who brought them a disastrous war, Alp-sized deficits and an economic collapse that would give Herbert Hoover pause, Harper this week tried to turn his minority government into a majority one that would transform Canada into Bushworld, eight years after it was fashionable.He failed. And he failed with stasis, which is worse. There are three wings to Canadian political life. Harper, the Conservative PM, is a rightwing extremist, although he doesn't suck up like Cameron. He is an anti-choice, pro-prison, poverty-ignoring, food-safety-privatising, arts-ridiculing, Afghanistan war-loving, cowboy hat-wearing guy. The Liberals, the nation's natural rulers, are in the middle of the road like an expiring woodchuck. They are sensible people without passion; they own just the one house; they're New Labour without the ratlike cunning, without the Cherie, shall we say. The New Democratic party is old Labour.Harper began passing laws making Canada more like the States. His most complimentary adjective was \"CEO-like\". He wants life sentences for 14-year-old murderers, of whom we have maybe three in a nation of 33 million citizens. He wants to build more prisons, ban safe-injection sites for heroin addicts, privatise universal healthcare, make the foetus not just a person, but someone who can dress for success \u2013 you know the drill.And then he passed a law saying election dates had to be fixed, just like in the States. Weird, Canadians thought, but the governor-general can handle that.Suddenly last month, he thought he was sufficiently buff to win an election big-time, so he broke his own new law to call one. A week later, the world economic system collapsed. Canadians worry. We are still hewers of wood and drawers of water, but the spruce pine beetle is destroying our forests. And the Americans want our water to fill the fountains of Las Vegas. They have drones, we don't: they'll have our water.So if we're going down, if we're going to lose our jobs and move back in with our parents and spend a slate-grey winter watching Canadian Idol, we'd really rather not have a prime minister who, when confronted with his own small child at his school, reaches down and shakes the child's hand. We'd like a human being in charge. Hey, maybe someone who gets all emotional about mothers fretting at kitchen tables and such, like the Democrats have. Where's our Obama? Oh quit dreaming, Canadians. So we voted. As in the movie Groundhog Day, where the post-election morning was the same as the last one, with the result being another minority government born of a quiet desperation that won't be soothed until the Liberals get a new leader, not a sweet smart guy like St\u00e9phane Dion, but someone with claws like Michael Ignatieff, a Canadian you Brits took to your bosom some years ago.Thanks for sending him back. It's getting hot here, our trees are sawdust and our ice is melting. Canada needs a smart decisive cynic. Anything to haul that crushed woodchuck off the road.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "George Bush", "Americas"], "title": "Heather Mallick: Canada has just re-elected a PM who wants to recreate Bushworld"},{"date": "2008-12-04T22:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The political situation in Canada \u2013 coup, crisis, call it what you want \u2013 continues to take new and dramatic turns. On Thursday morning, as expected, Prime Minister Stephen Harper, seeking to avoid a confidence motion - which he would lose, given that his Conservative government only has a minority of the seats in the House of Commons - met with governor general Micha\u00eblle Jean to ask her to prorogue, or end, the current session of Parliament. Instead of calling for another election or turning to the Liberal-New Democratic coalition (which, with support from the Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois, holds the majority in Canada's House of Commons), Jean granted his request.What this means is that there won't be another confidence motion until parliament resumes sitting late in January - seven weeks from now - at the earliest. The government may then lose a confidence vote on the Throne Speech, which will begin the next parliamentary session, or on the budget, but, in the meantime, both sides will campaign aggressively to woo public opinion \u2013 the Conservatives even more so given the fact that they have more money than the other parties. In other words, we're about to be sucked into an election campaign but without the election.The key for the Conservatives will be to convince Canadians that they are in fact serious about dealing with the economic and financial crisis (and that they therefore ought to remain in power). Their reality-denying economic plan contained nothing in the way of stimulation and a lot in the way of right-wing causes (a ban on public sector strikes, anti-pay equity), including an effort to destroy the opposition parties by eliminating public subsidies, but we can be sure that what they come up with next will be generous in its vote-winning ways. To preserves themselves in power, they will promise the world.As well, the Conservatives will seek to break apart the coalition, or at least to undermine support for it by arguing, as they have been already, that it only has a majority of seats in the House with the support of the separatist Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois, a party that, according to Harper yesterday, does not work for the interests of Canada as a whole (even though BQ MPs were democratically elected and, whatever their views on sovereignty, represent Canadians and their interests in the House \u2013 they, as much as other MPs, have a mandate, and their votes count just as much).The key for the Liberals and the New Democrats, as well as for the BQ (which has signed on to support their coalition into 2010), will be to remain united and determined through what promises to be a bitter and contentious campaign for public support over the next month and a half or so. It would look bad for them to split apart or back down now. But there is good reason to have little confidence in Liberal leader St\u00e9phane Dion's ability to keep them united and determined. He pales in comparison to Harper, a vastly more able and talented politician. As Dion has proved yet again this week, he is simply unable to get his message across effectively. If the recent election campaign is any guide \u2013 and there is hardly any doubt the Conservatives will resurrect their campaign playbook, with attacks on the untrustworthy Dion in juxtaposition to the supposed model of stability that is Harper \u2013 Dion and the Liberals will be overwhelmed, dividing into rival camps ahead of the party's leadership convention next spring, and the coalition will fracture.The governor general's decision may or may not have been cowardly, but it was certainly a poor one \u2013 one that disrespects parliamentary democracy, disregards the will of a majority of MPs, and puts government on hold at this time of economic and financial crisis. Either Jean should have dissolved Parliament and called an election, or she should have given the coalition the opportunity to govern. Instead, in granting Harper's request, she has given the Conservatives exactly what they want, including a decisive advantage in the campaign to come. Basically, she has saved Harper's sorry bacon, evidently putting his interests before the interests of the country.It is a sad, sad day for Canada.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "US news", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Michael Stickings: A poor decision lets Canada's governing party off the hook"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:10:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Foreigners talking loudly about moving to Canada should \"President McCain-Palin\" or \"Prime Minister Cameron\" come to pass, take heed. My beloved country has just held a pointless election, a real doughnut, and made a fool of itself, courtesy of its prime minister.Oh God, I am so embarrassed.I'm taking the Canadian flag off my luggage tag and telling everyone I'm from Iceland. Now there's a shy puss of a country that screws up with elan.Is there some way I can blame George W Bush for Canada's humiliation? You betcha, as Sarah Palin would say. Our prime minister, Stephen Harper, a strange man with an awkward gait, an absence of social skills, and the dress sense of that guy at the back of the hardware store who sorts nails for a living, is alone in this world in that he still adores Bush. Just as the US is about to turf the man who brought them a disastrous war, Alp-sized deficits and an economic collapse that would give Herbert Hoover pause, Harper this week tried to turn his minority government into a majority one that would transform Canada into Bushworld, eight years after it was fashionable.He failed. And he failed with stasis, which is worse. There are three wings to Canadian political life. Harper, the Conservative PM, is a rightwing extremist, although he doesn't suck up like Cameron. He is an anti-choice, pro-prison, poverty-ignoring, food-safety-privatising, arts-ridiculing, Afghanistan war-loving, cowboy hat-wearing guy. The Liberals, the nation's natural rulers, are in the middle of the road like an expiring woodchuck. They are sensible people without passion; they own just the one house; they're New Labour without the ratlike cunning, without the Cherie, shall we say. The New Democratic party is old Labour.Harper began passing laws making Canada more like the States. His most complimentary adjective was \"CEO-like\". He wants life sentences for 14-year-old murderers, of whom we have maybe three in a nation of 33 million citizens. He wants to build more prisons, ban safe-injection sites for heroin addicts, privatise universal healthcare, make the foetus not just a person, but someone who can dress for success \u2013 you know the drill.And then he passed a law saying election dates had to be fixed, just like in the States. Weird, Canadians thought, but the governor-general can handle that.Suddenly last month, he thought he was sufficiently buff to win an election big-time, so he broke his own new law to call one. A week later, the world economic system collapsed. Canadians worry. We are still hewers of wood and drawers of water, but the spruce pine beetle is destroying our forests. And the Americans want our water to fill the fountains of Las Vegas. They have drones, we don't: they'll have our water.So if we're going down, if we're going to lose our jobs and move back in with our parents and spend a slate-grey winter watching Canadian Idol, we'd really rather not have a prime minister who, when confronted with his own small child at his school, reaches down and shakes the child's hand. We'd like a human being in charge. Hey, maybe someone who gets all emotional about mothers fretting at kitchen tables and such, like the Democrats have. Where's our Obama? Oh quit dreaming, Canadians. So we voted. As in the movie Groundhog Day, where the post-election morning was the same as the last one, with the result being another minority government born of a quiet desperation that won't be soothed until the Liberals get a new leader, not a sweet smart guy like St\u00e9phane Dion, but someone with claws like Michael Ignatieff, a Canadian you Brits took to your bosom some years ago.Thanks for sending him back. It's getting hot here, our trees are sawdust and our ice is melting. Canada needs a smart decisive cynic. Anything to haul that crushed woodchuck off the road.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "George Bush", "Americas"], "title": "Heather Mallick: Canada has just re-elected a PM who wants to recreate Bushworld"},{"date": "2008-12-04T22:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The political situation in Canada \u2013 coup, crisis, call it what you want \u2013 continues to take new and dramatic turns. On Thursday morning, as expected, Prime Minister Stephen Harper, seeking to avoid a confidence motion - which he would lose, given that his Conservative government only has a minority of the seats in the House of Commons - met with governor general Micha\u00eblle Jean to ask her to prorogue, or end, the current session of Parliament. Instead of calling for another election or turning to the Liberal-New Democratic coalition (which, with support from the Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois, holds the majority in Canada's House of Commons), Jean granted his request.What this means is that there won't be another confidence motion until parliament resumes sitting late in January - seven weeks from now - at the earliest. The government may then lose a confidence vote on the Throne Speech, which will begin the next parliamentary session, or on the budget, but, in the meantime, both sides will campaign aggressively to woo public opinion \u2013 the Conservatives even more so given the fact that they have more money than the other parties. In other words, we're about to be sucked into an election campaign but without the election.The key for the Conservatives will be to convince Canadians that they are in fact serious about dealing with the economic and financial crisis (and that they therefore ought to remain in power). Their reality-denying economic plan contained nothing in the way of stimulation and a lot in the way of right-wing causes (a ban on public sector strikes, anti-pay equity), including an effort to destroy the opposition parties by eliminating public subsidies, but we can be sure that what they come up with next will be generous in its vote-winning ways. To preserves themselves in power, they will promise the world.As well, the Conservatives will seek to break apart the coalition, or at least to undermine support for it by arguing, as they have been already, that it only has a majority of seats in the House with the support of the separatist Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois, a party that, according to Harper yesterday, does not work for the interests of Canada as a whole (even though BQ MPs were democratically elected and, whatever their views on sovereignty, represent Canadians and their interests in the House \u2013 they, as much as other MPs, have a mandate, and their votes count just as much).The key for the Liberals and the New Democrats, as well as for the BQ (which has signed on to support their coalition into 2010), will be to remain united and determined through what promises to be a bitter and contentious campaign for public support over the next month and a half or so. It would look bad for them to split apart or back down now. But there is good reason to have little confidence in Liberal leader St\u00e9phane Dion's ability to keep them united and determined. He pales in comparison to Harper, a vastly more able and talented politician. As Dion has proved yet again this week, he is simply unable to get his message across effectively. If the recent election campaign is any guide \u2013 and there is hardly any doubt the Conservatives will resurrect their campaign playbook, with attacks on the untrustworthy Dion in juxtaposition to the supposed model of stability that is Harper \u2013 Dion and the Liberals will be overwhelmed, dividing into rival camps ahead of the party's leadership convention next spring, and the coalition will fracture.The governor general's decision may or may not have been cowardly, but it was certainly a poor one \u2013 one that disrespects parliamentary democracy, disregards the will of a majority of MPs, and puts government on hold at this time of economic and financial crisis. Either Jean should have dissolved Parliament and called an election, or she should have given the coalition the opportunity to govern. Instead, in granting Harper's request, she has given the Conservatives exactly what they want, including a decisive advantage in the campaign to come. Basically, she has saved Harper's sorry bacon, evidently putting his interests before the interests of the country.It is a sad, sad day for Canada.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "US news", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Michael Stickings: A poor decision lets Canada's governing party off the hook"},{"date": "2008-12-05T19:38:37Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's prime minister had a narrow escape from being the first leader of a major industrialised country to lose his job because of the economic crisis.Stephen Harper, who leads a conservative minority government, took the extraordinary step of seeking the suspension of parliament until next January to head off a confidence vote he was bound to lose. The country's governor general granted his request on Thursday.Harper is now under immense pressure to show he can deliver economic relief when parliament resumes on January 26.He has said his \"first order of business\" will be a new budget that he hopes will satisfy the Liberal and New Democratic Party opponents who wanted to vote him out.But it could be a struggle for Harper to come up with an economic plan that will satisfy his political opposition or Canadian voters. New figures today showed Canada suffering its worst month of job losses since 1982, raising the unemployment rate to 6.3%. Ontario, the country's largest province and its manufacturing base, was especially hard hit.Meanwhile, the Canadian-based arm of Chrysler has said it is seeking a $1.5bn government bail-out to keep it from shutting operations.After producing an economic plan last week that contained no stimulus measures but that would defund Canada's political parties, news reports today said the conservative leader is looking to aid the auto industry as part of a broader rescue plan.Other measures that could satisfy the opposition include more infrastructure spending on transit and waterworks; money for housing construction and retrofitting; aid for manufacturers and forestry companies; and eased employment-insurance restrictions.The political damage to Harper may not be lasting. An opinion poll conducted for the national broadcaster CBC before Canada's political drama came to a head, today showed Harper on 44% support, a rise on the 37% he won in the elections last October.The prime minister was also more trusted on the economy than his main opponent, the Liberal leader St\u00e9phane Dion.Another poll for The Globe and Mail newspaper also showed a majority of Canadians wanted Harper to stay on, but 55% felt the country was on the wrong track.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Stephen Harper under pressure to deliver economic relief to Canada"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:10:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Foreigners talking loudly about moving to Canada should \"President McCain-Palin\" or \"Prime Minister Cameron\" come to pass, take heed. My beloved country has just held a pointless election, a real doughnut, and made a fool of itself, courtesy of its prime minister.Oh God, I am so embarrassed.I'm taking the Canadian flag off my luggage tag and telling everyone I'm from Iceland. Now there's a shy puss of a country that screws up with elan.Is there some way I can blame George W Bush for Canada's humiliation? You betcha, as Sarah Palin would say. Our prime minister, Stephen Harper, a strange man with an awkward gait, an absence of social skills, and the dress sense of that guy at the back of the hardware store who sorts nails for a living, is alone in this world in that he still adores Bush. Just as the US is about to turf the man who brought them a disastrous war, Alp-sized deficits and an economic collapse that would give Herbert Hoover pause, Harper this week tried to turn his minority government into a majority one that would transform Canada into Bushworld, eight years after it was fashionable.He failed. And he failed with stasis, which is worse. There are three wings to Canadian political life. Harper, the Conservative PM, is a rightwing extremist, although he doesn't suck up like Cameron. He is an anti-choice, pro-prison, poverty-ignoring, food-safety-privatising, arts-ridiculing, Afghanistan war-loving, cowboy hat-wearing guy. The Liberals, the nation's natural rulers, are in the middle of the road like an expiring woodchuck. They are sensible people without passion; they own just the one house; they're New Labour without the ratlike cunning, without the Cherie, shall we say. The New Democratic party is old Labour.Harper began passing laws making Canada more like the States. His most complimentary adjective was \"CEO-like\". He wants life sentences for 14-year-old murderers, of whom we have maybe three in a nation of 33 million citizens. He wants to build more prisons, ban safe-injection sites for heroin addicts, privatise universal healthcare, make the foetus not just a person, but someone who can dress for success \u2013 you know the drill.And then he passed a law saying election dates had to be fixed, just like in the States. Weird, Canadians thought, but the governor-general can handle that.Suddenly last month, he thought he was sufficiently buff to win an election big-time, so he broke his own new law to call one. A week later, the world economic system collapsed. Canadians worry. We are still hewers of wood and drawers of water, but the spruce pine beetle is destroying our forests. And the Americans want our water to fill the fountains of Las Vegas. They have drones, we don't: they'll have our water.So if we're going down, if we're going to lose our jobs and move back in with our parents and spend a slate-grey winter watching Canadian Idol, we'd really rather not have a prime minister who, when confronted with his own small child at his school, reaches down and shakes the child's hand. We'd like a human being in charge. Hey, maybe someone who gets all emotional about mothers fretting at kitchen tables and such, like the Democrats have. Where's our Obama? Oh quit dreaming, Canadians. So we voted. As in the movie Groundhog Day, where the post-election morning was the same as the last one, with the result being another minority government born of a quiet desperation that won't be soothed until the Liberals get a new leader, not a sweet smart guy like St\u00e9phane Dion, but someone with claws like Michael Ignatieff, a Canadian you Brits took to your bosom some years ago.Thanks for sending him back. It's getting hot here, our trees are sawdust and our ice is melting. Canada needs a smart decisive cynic. Anything to haul that crushed woodchuck off the road.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "George Bush", "Americas"], "title": "Heather Mallick: Canada has just re-elected a PM who wants to recreate Bushworld"},{"date": "2008-12-04T22:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The political situation in Canada \u2013 coup, crisis, call it what you want \u2013 continues to take new and dramatic turns. On Thursday morning, as expected, Prime Minister Stephen Harper, seeking to avoid a confidence motion - which he would lose, given that his Conservative government only has a minority of the seats in the House of Commons - met with governor general Micha\u00eblle Jean to ask her to prorogue, or end, the current session of Parliament. Instead of calling for another election or turning to the Liberal-New Democratic coalition (which, with support from the Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois, holds the majority in Canada's House of Commons), Jean granted his request.What this means is that there won't be another confidence motion until parliament resumes sitting late in January - seven weeks from now - at the earliest. The government may then lose a confidence vote on the Throne Speech, which will begin the next parliamentary session, or on the budget, but, in the meantime, both sides will campaign aggressively to woo public opinion \u2013 the Conservatives even more so given the fact that they have more money than the other parties. In other words, we're about to be sucked into an election campaign but without the election.The key for the Conservatives will be to convince Canadians that they are in fact serious about dealing with the economic and financial crisis (and that they therefore ought to remain in power). Their reality-denying economic plan contained nothing in the way of stimulation and a lot in the way of right-wing causes (a ban on public sector strikes, anti-pay equity), including an effort to destroy the opposition parties by eliminating public subsidies, but we can be sure that what they come up with next will be generous in its vote-winning ways. To preserves themselves in power, they will promise the world.As well, the Conservatives will seek to break apart the coalition, or at least to undermine support for it by arguing, as they have been already, that it only has a majority of seats in the House with the support of the separatist Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois, a party that, according to Harper yesterday, does not work for the interests of Canada as a whole (even though BQ MPs were democratically elected and, whatever their views on sovereignty, represent Canadians and their interests in the House \u2013 they, as much as other MPs, have a mandate, and their votes count just as much).The key for the Liberals and the New Democrats, as well as for the BQ (which has signed on to support their coalition into 2010), will be to remain united and determined through what promises to be a bitter and contentious campaign for public support over the next month and a half or so. It would look bad for them to split apart or back down now. But there is good reason to have little confidence in Liberal leader St\u00e9phane Dion's ability to keep them united and determined. He pales in comparison to Harper, a vastly more able and talented politician. As Dion has proved yet again this week, he is simply unable to get his message across effectively. If the recent election campaign is any guide \u2013 and there is hardly any doubt the Conservatives will resurrect their campaign playbook, with attacks on the untrustworthy Dion in juxtaposition to the supposed model of stability that is Harper \u2013 Dion and the Liberals will be overwhelmed, dividing into rival camps ahead of the party's leadership convention next spring, and the coalition will fracture.The governor general's decision may or may not have been cowardly, but it was certainly a poor one \u2013 one that disrespects parliamentary democracy, disregards the will of a majority of MPs, and puts government on hold at this time of economic and financial crisis. Either Jean should have dissolved Parliament and called an election, or she should have given the coalition the opportunity to govern. Instead, in granting Harper's request, she has given the Conservatives exactly what they want, including a decisive advantage in the campaign to come. Basically, she has saved Harper's sorry bacon, evidently putting his interests before the interests of the country.It is a sad, sad day for Canada.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "US news", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Michael Stickings: A poor decision lets Canada's governing party off the hook"},{"date": "2008-12-05T19:38:37Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's prime minister had a narrow escape from being the first leader of a major industrialised country to lose his job because of the economic crisis.Stephen Harper, who leads a conservative minority government, took the extraordinary step of seeking the suspension of parliament until next January to head off a confidence vote he was bound to lose. The country's governor general granted his request on Thursday.Harper is now under immense pressure to show he can deliver economic relief when parliament resumes on January 26.He has said his \"first order of business\" will be a new budget that he hopes will satisfy the Liberal and New Democratic Party opponents who wanted to vote him out.But it could be a struggle for Harper to come up with an economic plan that will satisfy his political opposition or Canadian voters. New figures today showed Canada suffering its worst month of job losses since 1982, raising the unemployment rate to 6.3%. Ontario, the country's largest province and its manufacturing base, was especially hard hit.Meanwhile, the Canadian-based arm of Chrysler has said it is seeking a $1.5bn government bail-out to keep it from shutting operations.After producing an economic plan last week that contained no stimulus measures but that would defund Canada's political parties, news reports today said the conservative leader is looking to aid the auto industry as part of a broader rescue plan.Other measures that could satisfy the opposition include more infrastructure spending on transit and waterworks; money for housing construction and retrofitting; aid for manufacturers and forestry companies; and eased employment-insurance restrictions.The political damage to Harper may not be lasting. An opinion poll conducted for the national broadcaster CBC before Canada's political drama came to a head, today showed Harper on 44% support, a rise on the 37% he won in the elections last October.The prime minister was also more trusted on the economy than his main opponent, the Liberal leader St\u00e9phane Dion.Another poll for The Globe and Mail newspaper also showed a majority of Canadians wanted Harper to stay on, but 55% felt the country was on the wrong track.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Stephen Harper under pressure to deliver economic relief to Canada"},{"date": "2008-12-04T18:09:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government won a reprieve today when the governor general agreed to suspend parliament until late January, putting off a no-confidence vote that the prime minister was expected to lose.In a controversial decision, Micha\u00eblle Jean agreed to the suspension request from the prime minister, Stephen Harper, who is trying to cling to power less than two months after winning re-election.Jean, the representative of the Queen as Canada's head of state, holds a mostly ceremonial position as governor general, but she has the power to accept or reject any request from Harper to suspend parliament. Before today's meeting between Harper and Jean, the opposition said a suspension of parliament would only delay what they saw as Harper's inevitable defeat. In a televised address yesterday, Harper condemned the opposition plan to gain power through a no-confidence vote as undemocratic and vowed to use \"every legal means\" to stop the attempt to unseat his minority Conservative government.A Canadian government has never been thrown out by a no-confidence vote to be replaced without an election. Harper will now work on a budget that includes a stimulus package amid criticism from the opposition liberal leader, Stephane Dion, that the government has no plan to respond to the shocks from the global economic slowdown.Three opposition parties have banded together in an attempt to unseat the government. The coalition, which has promised to fast-track billions in dollars in spending as the country heads into recession, has the backing of Canada's beleaguered car and forestry sectors.Canadians are split on whom to support. According to an Angus Reid poll for Canadian TV, 64% do not support Dion becoming prime minister in a coalition government, but 53% oppose the Conservatives' current economic policy. Some 57% are concerned about the separatist Bloc Quebecois's role in the coalition. Analysts say Canada's political paralysis is unprecedented. A Canadian governor general has never refused a request by the prime minister to temporarily suspend parliament, but such a move had never before been requested to delay a no-confidence vote when it was clear the government lacked the confidence of a majority of MPs.\"There is no precedent whatsoever in Canada and probably in the Commonwealth,\" said Ned Franks, a constitutional scholar and political scientist. \"We are in uncharted territory.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Canada suspends parliament in reprieve for under-fire PM"},{"date": "2008-10-16T16:10:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Foreigners talking loudly about moving to Canada should \"President McCain-Palin\" or \"Prime Minister Cameron\" come to pass, take heed. My beloved country has just held a pointless election, a real doughnut, and made a fool of itself, courtesy of its prime minister.Oh God, I am so embarrassed.I'm taking the Canadian flag off my luggage tag and telling everyone I'm from Iceland. Now there's a shy puss of a country that screws up with elan.Is there some way I can blame George W Bush for Canada's humiliation? You betcha, as Sarah Palin would say. Our prime minister, Stephen Harper, a strange man with an awkward gait, an absence of social skills, and the dress sense of that guy at the back of the hardware store who sorts nails for a living, is alone in this world in that he still adores Bush. Just as the US is about to turf the man who brought them a disastrous war, Alp-sized deficits and an economic collapse that would give Herbert Hoover pause, Harper this week tried to turn his minority government into a majority one that would transform Canada into Bushworld, eight years after it was fashionable.He failed. And he failed with stasis, which is worse. There are three wings to Canadian political life. Harper, the Conservative PM, is a rightwing extremist, although he doesn't suck up like Cameron. He is an anti-choice, pro-prison, poverty-ignoring, food-safety-privatising, arts-ridiculing, Afghanistan war-loving, cowboy hat-wearing guy. The Liberals, the nation's natural rulers, are in the middle of the road like an expiring woodchuck. They are sensible people without passion; they own just the one house; they're New Labour without the ratlike cunning, without the Cherie, shall we say. The New Democratic party is old Labour.Harper began passing laws making Canada more like the States. His most complimentary adjective was \"CEO-like\". He wants life sentences for 14-year-old murderers, of whom we have maybe three in a nation of 33 million citizens. He wants to build more prisons, ban safe-injection sites for heroin addicts, privatise universal healthcare, make the foetus not just a person, but someone who can dress for success \u2013 you know the drill.And then he passed a law saying election dates had to be fixed, just like in the States. Weird, Canadians thought, but the governor-general can handle that.Suddenly last month, he thought he was sufficiently buff to win an election big-time, so he broke his own new law to call one. A week later, the world economic system collapsed. Canadians worry. We are still hewers of wood and drawers of water, but the spruce pine beetle is destroying our forests. And the Americans want our water to fill the fountains of Las Vegas. They have drones, we don't: they'll have our water.So if we're going down, if we're going to lose our jobs and move back in with our parents and spend a slate-grey winter watching Canadian Idol, we'd really rather not have a prime minister who, when confronted with his own small child at his school, reaches down and shakes the child's hand. We'd like a human being in charge. Hey, maybe someone who gets all emotional about mothers fretting at kitchen tables and such, like the Democrats have. Where's our Obama? Oh quit dreaming, Canadians. So we voted. As in the movie Groundhog Day, where the post-election morning was the same as the last one, with the result being another minority government born of a quiet desperation that won't be soothed until the Liberals get a new leader, not a sweet smart guy like St\u00e9phane Dion, but someone with claws like Michael Ignatieff, a Canadian you Brits took to your bosom some years ago.Thanks for sending him back. It's getting hot here, our trees are sawdust and our ice is melting. Canada needs a smart decisive cynic. Anything to haul that crushed woodchuck off the road.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "George Bush", "Americas"], "title": "Heather Mallick: Canada has just re-elected a PM who wants to recreate Bushworld"},{"date": "2008-12-04T22:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The political situation in Canada \u2013 coup, crisis, call it what you want \u2013 continues to take new and dramatic turns. On Thursday morning, as expected, Prime Minister Stephen Harper, seeking to avoid a confidence motion - which he would lose, given that his Conservative government only has a minority of the seats in the House of Commons - met with governor general Micha\u00eblle Jean to ask her to prorogue, or end, the current session of Parliament. Instead of calling for another election or turning to the Liberal-New Democratic coalition (which, with support from the Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois, holds the majority in Canada's House of Commons), Jean granted his request.What this means is that there won't be another confidence motion until parliament resumes sitting late in January - seven weeks from now - at the earliest. The government may then lose a confidence vote on the Throne Speech, which will begin the next parliamentary session, or on the budget, but, in the meantime, both sides will campaign aggressively to woo public opinion \u2013 the Conservatives even more so given the fact that they have more money than the other parties. In other words, we're about to be sucked into an election campaign but without the election.The key for the Conservatives will be to convince Canadians that they are in fact serious about dealing with the economic and financial crisis (and that they therefore ought to remain in power). Their reality-denying economic plan contained nothing in the way of stimulation and a lot in the way of right-wing causes (a ban on public sector strikes, anti-pay equity), including an effort to destroy the opposition parties by eliminating public subsidies, but we can be sure that what they come up with next will be generous in its vote-winning ways. To preserves themselves in power, they will promise the world.As well, the Conservatives will seek to break apart the coalition, or at least to undermine support for it by arguing, as they have been already, that it only has a majority of seats in the House with the support of the separatist Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois, a party that, according to Harper yesterday, does not work for the interests of Canada as a whole (even though BQ MPs were democratically elected and, whatever their views on sovereignty, represent Canadians and their interests in the House \u2013 they, as much as other MPs, have a mandate, and their votes count just as much).The key for the Liberals and the New Democrats, as well as for the BQ (which has signed on to support their coalition into 2010), will be to remain united and determined through what promises to be a bitter and contentious campaign for public support over the next month and a half or so. It would look bad for them to split apart or back down now. But there is good reason to have little confidence in Liberal leader St\u00e9phane Dion's ability to keep them united and determined. He pales in comparison to Harper, a vastly more able and talented politician. As Dion has proved yet again this week, he is simply unable to get his message across effectively. If the recent election campaign is any guide \u2013 and there is hardly any doubt the Conservatives will resurrect their campaign playbook, with attacks on the untrustworthy Dion in juxtaposition to the supposed model of stability that is Harper \u2013 Dion and the Liberals will be overwhelmed, dividing into rival camps ahead of the party's leadership convention next spring, and the coalition will fracture.The governor general's decision may or may not have been cowardly, but it was certainly a poor one \u2013 one that disrespects parliamentary democracy, disregards the will of a majority of MPs, and puts government on hold at this time of economic and financial crisis. Either Jean should have dissolved Parliament and called an election, or she should have given the coalition the opportunity to govern. Instead, in granting Harper's request, she has given the Conservatives exactly what they want, including a decisive advantage in the campaign to come. Basically, she has saved Harper's sorry bacon, evidently putting his interests before the interests of the country.It is a sad, sad day for Canada.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "US news", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Michael Stickings: A poor decision lets Canada's governing party off the hook"},{"date": "2008-12-05T19:38:37Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's prime minister had a narrow escape from being the first leader of a major industrialised country to lose his job because of the economic crisis.Stephen Harper, who leads a conservative minority government, took the extraordinary step of seeking the suspension of parliament until next January to head off a confidence vote he was bound to lose. The country's governor general granted his request on Thursday.Harper is now under immense pressure to show he can deliver economic relief when parliament resumes on January 26.He has said his \"first order of business\" will be a new budget that he hopes will satisfy the Liberal and New Democratic Party opponents who wanted to vote him out.But it could be a struggle for Harper to come up with an economic plan that will satisfy his political opposition or Canadian voters. New figures today showed Canada suffering its worst month of job losses since 1982, raising the unemployment rate to 6.3%. Ontario, the country's largest province and its manufacturing base, was especially hard hit.Meanwhile, the Canadian-based arm of Chrysler has said it is seeking a $1.5bn government bail-out to keep it from shutting operations.After producing an economic plan last week that contained no stimulus measures but that would defund Canada's political parties, news reports today said the conservative leader is looking to aid the auto industry as part of a broader rescue plan.Other measures that could satisfy the opposition include more infrastructure spending on transit and waterworks; money for housing construction and retrofitting; aid for manufacturers and forestry companies; and eased employment-insurance restrictions.The political damage to Harper may not be lasting. An opinion poll conducted for the national broadcaster CBC before Canada's political drama came to a head, today showed Harper on 44% support, a rise on the 37% he won in the elections last October.The prime minister was also more trusted on the economy than his main opponent, the Liberal leader St\u00e9phane Dion.Another poll for The Globe and Mail newspaper also showed a majority of Canadians wanted Harper to stay on, but 55% felt the country was on the wrong track.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Stephen Harper under pressure to deliver economic relief to Canada"},{"date": "2008-12-04T18:09:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government won a reprieve today when the governor general agreed to suspend parliament until late January, putting off a no-confidence vote that the prime minister was expected to lose.In a controversial decision, Micha\u00eblle Jean agreed to the suspension request from the prime minister, Stephen Harper, who is trying to cling to power less than two months after winning re-election.Jean, the representative of the Queen as Canada's head of state, holds a mostly ceremonial position as governor general, but she has the power to accept or reject any request from Harper to suspend parliament. Before today's meeting between Harper and Jean, the opposition said a suspension of parliament would only delay what they saw as Harper's inevitable defeat. In a televised address yesterday, Harper condemned the opposition plan to gain power through a no-confidence vote as undemocratic and vowed to use \"every legal means\" to stop the attempt to unseat his minority Conservative government.A Canadian government has never been thrown out by a no-confidence vote to be replaced without an election. Harper will now work on a budget that includes a stimulus package amid criticism from the opposition liberal leader, Stephane Dion, that the government has no plan to respond to the shocks from the global economic slowdown.Three opposition parties have banded together in an attempt to unseat the government. The coalition, which has promised to fast-track billions in dollars in spending as the country heads into recession, has the backing of Canada's beleaguered car and forestry sectors.Canadians are split on whom to support. According to an Angus Reid poll for Canadian TV, 64% do not support Dion becoming prime minister in a coalition government, but 53% oppose the Conservatives' current economic policy. Some 57% are concerned about the separatist Bloc Quebecois's role in the coalition. Analysts say Canada's political paralysis is unprecedented. A Canadian governor general has never refused a request by the prime minister to temporarily suspend parliament, but such a move had never before been requested to delay a no-confidence vote when it was clear the government lacked the confidence of a majority of MPs.\"There is no precedent whatsoever in Canada and probably in the Commonwealth,\" said Ned Franks, a constitutional scholar and political scientist. \"We are in uncharted territory.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Canada suspends parliament in reprieve for under-fire PM"},{"date": "2008-11-19T15:00:55Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Tributes have been pouring in for the world's oldest polar bear, who died peacefully at a Canadian zoo yesterday.Keepers at the Assiniboine Park zoo in Winnipeg, Manitoba, are mourning the death of the bear named Debby.She had lived at the zoo since 1967 after being captured as an orphaned cub in the Russian Arctic, in 1966.She was listed as the world's oldest polar bear by the Guinness Book of World Records when she turned 41.But veterinarians decided to euthanise her after it was discovered she had suffered several strokes and multiple organ failure due to her advanced age. She had stopped eating over the weekend. She was just one month shy of her 42nd birthday.Posts on a Winnipeg online chat site displayed fond memories of the bear, calling her death \"a great loss to the city\".Debby gave birth to six cubs at the zoo where she lived with a male bear, Skipper, who died several years ago, aged 34.\"Debby was a great bear,\" said Jos Gatien, the zoo's senior bear keeper who worked with Debby for 13 years. \"She acted like a grumpy old bear a lot of times. It was great. She had a lot of life in her, a lot of feistiness.\"Debby's guardians will decide what to do with her remains. Skipper had his ashes scattered near Churchill, Manitoba, on Hudson Bay when he died in 1999.Robert Buchanan, president of Polar Bears International, praised Debby as \"an Arctic ambassador of polar bears to the world\".\"We'll miss her,\" he said.", "tags": ["Environment", "World news", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "World's oldest polar bear dies at Canada zoo"},{"date": "2009-02-17T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Last month, the Toronto Star ran a \"survival guide\" for Barack Obama in advance of his upcoming visit to Canada on Thursday. It warned him of the Canadian \"proclivity for substance over style,\" and that, thanks to Pierre Trudeau, \"we're cool with cool, but we've already been there.\" In other words, thanks for coming, but we're totally over it already.The problem is that the opposite is true. We couldn't be happier that Barack Obama is not only choosing Canada for his first official visit, but that he knows we even exist at all. Since he does, he might also know that, generally speaking, we love him. What he probably doesn't know is why. All he would have to do to find out would be to watch the Simpsons.Almost everything anyone ever wanted to know about the Canadian identity is captured in episode 5F11 of the Simpsons. In the midst of a fracas that erupts between the delegates of the Springfield Elementary model UN, Ralph Wiggum, representing Canada and dressed as a Mountie, dutifully stands to attention and above the din begins to sing \"O! Canada\". It is difficult to find a more accurate depiction of the international Canadian persona.Ralph-as-Canada is many things all at once. He is the view looking north from the United States at the peaceful, cute, idiotic little neighbour, boasting proudly of nothing at all. He is also the mythical \"Canadian\" \u2013 the humble, internationalist, inclusive, sensible law-abider \u2013 that Canadians have convinced ourselves that we are. However, the most important persona is missing: that of the anti-American Canadian, which is now a bit of a problem. In Barack Obama, Canadians see those qualities that we love most, but our reasoning for this is flawed. Obama breaks stereotypes that we hold for our neighbours, and instead represents stereotypes that we have of ourselves. We like him because we feel he's as good as we are. This means that we like him because he is better than his countrymen. Nothing could be more self-righteous.Frustratingly, this attitude is often built on a misguided understanding of both American culture and our own. When Barack Obama spoke in Baltimore the Saturday prior to his inauguration, he described the survival of the American spirit after the White House was burned to the ground in 1814. Many here will tell you that Canadians set that fire. We didn't, the British did. This is the same assumption-driven thinking that allows us to feel that the American way of life is generally the wrong one, and ignore how much the Canadian alternative shares with it. Many Canadians can boast an extensive knowledge of the United States, and can explain their history or government. That's all fine and good. The problem comes when we're asked to explain ourselves, and the answers are often much shorter.Recently, the National Post asked: \"Can Obama end our anti-Americanism?\" Could this love we have for him finally destroy our dislike of Americans? The answer is: no. When Canada patriated its constitution, there was a feeling that finally the country had released itself from Mother Britain. The job then became one of self-definition. Unfortunately, the problem is that we never really got around to it, opting instead to continue to define our regional differences: West versus East, French versus English, Ontario versus everyone else, etc. We pretend that this is a national identity, but it's more of the same \u2013 a definition in the negative.In fact, our anti-Americanism is one of the only common threads of Canadian identity that runs, unbroken, from Confederation to the very second that I'm writing these words. Most other traits - the peacekeeping, the cultural mosaic, and so on - have developed along the way. The only other aspect to share this streak is bilingualism. Needless to say, it does not unite Canadians with quite the same degree of success.All along, our truest defining characteristic has sat at North America's waistline. The 49th parallel is a stronger Canadian symbol than anything else. It is the line between being something and being not-something. If our anti-Americanism did end, it would not be because of Barack Obama. Instead, its end would only come from it being replaced internally by something else. If that does not occur, then we have to face the scary fact that Canada is only Canada because it is not America.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Canada", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "World news", "US news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "Colin Horgan: Without America to despise, what's left for Canadians to rally around?"},{"date": "2009-02-17T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Last month, the Toronto Star ran a \"survival guide\" for Barack Obama in advance of his upcoming visit to Canada on Thursday. It warned him of the Canadian \"proclivity for substance over style,\" and that, thanks to Pierre Trudeau, \"we're cool with cool, but we've already been there.\" In other words, thanks for coming, but we're totally over it already.The problem is that the opposite is true. We couldn't be happier that Barack Obama is not only choosing Canada for his first official visit, but that he knows we even exist at all. Since he does, he might also know that, generally speaking, we love him. What he probably doesn't know is why. All he would have to do to find out would be to watch the Simpsons.Almost everything anyone ever wanted to know about the Canadian identity is captured in episode 5F11 of the Simpsons. In the midst of a fracas that erupts between the delegates of the Springfield Elementary model UN, Ralph Wiggum, representing Canada and dressed as a Mountie, dutifully stands to attention and above the din begins to sing \"O! Canada\". It is difficult to find a more accurate depiction of the international Canadian persona.Ralph-as-Canada is many things all at once. He is the view looking north from the United States at the peaceful, cute, idiotic little neighbour, boasting proudly of nothing at all. He is also the mythical \"Canadian\" \u2013 the humble, internationalist, inclusive, sensible law-abider \u2013 that Canadians have convinced ourselves that we are. However, the most important persona is missing: that of the anti-American Canadian, which is now a bit of a problem. In Barack Obama, Canadians see those qualities that we love most, but our reasoning for this is flawed. Obama breaks stereotypes that we hold for our neighbours, and instead represents stereotypes that we have of ourselves. We like him because we feel he's as good as we are. This means that we like him because he is better than his countrymen. Nothing could be more self-righteous.Frustratingly, this attitude is often built on a misguided understanding of both American culture and our own. When Barack Obama spoke in Baltimore the Saturday prior to his inauguration, he described the survival of the American spirit after the White House was burned to the ground in 1814. Many here will tell you that Canadians set that fire. We didn't, the British did. This is the same assumption-driven thinking that allows us to feel that the American way of life is generally the wrong one, and ignore how much the Canadian alternative shares with it. Many Canadians can boast an extensive knowledge of the United States, and can explain their history or government. That's all fine and good. The problem comes when we're asked to explain ourselves, and the answers are often much shorter.Recently, the National Post asked: \"Can Obama end our anti-Americanism?\" Could this love we have for him finally destroy our dislike of Americans? The answer is: no. When Canada patriated its constitution, there was a feeling that finally the country had released itself from Mother Britain. The job then became one of self-definition. Unfortunately, the problem is that we never really got around to it, opting instead to continue to define our regional differences: West versus East, French versus English, Ontario versus everyone else, etc. We pretend that this is a national identity, but it's more of the same \u2013 a definition in the negative.In fact, our anti-Americanism is one of the only common threads of Canadian identity that runs, unbroken, from Confederation to the very second that I'm writing these words. Most other traits - the peacekeeping, the cultural mosaic, and so on - have developed along the way. The only other aspect to share this streak is bilingualism. Needless to say, it does not unite Canadians with quite the same degree of success.All along, our truest defining characteristic has sat at North America's waistline. The 49th parallel is a stronger Canadian symbol than anything else. It is the line between being something and being not-something. If our anti-Americanism did end, it would not be because of Barack Obama. Instead, its end would only come from it being replaced internally by something else. If that does not occur, then we have to face the scary fact that Canada is only Canada because it is not America.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Canada", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "World news", "US news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "Colin Horgan: Without America to despise, what's left for Canadians to rally around?"},{"date": "2009-03-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A furious George Galloway last night vowed to fight a ban on him entering Canada on the grounds of national security.The MP for Bethnal Green and Bow had been due to speak at a number of events in the country but his anti-war stance was drawn to the attention of the government by a Jewish group. He will challenge the decision in court.A Canadian government spokesman said that the decision would not be overturned for a man regarded as an \"infandous street-corner Cromwell\". The description of the Respect MP may have led him to his dictionary the definition of infandous is \"too odious to be expressed or mentioned\". Galloway said the comparison to Cromwell was not so offensive as he was \"the champion of parliamentary supremacy and the executor of supporters of autocratic and arbitrary power\".Galloway has been deemed \"inadmissible\" to Canada under section 34(1) of the country's immigration act.Alykhan Velshi, a spokesman for the immigration minister, said the act was designed to protect Canadians from people who fund, support or engage in terrorism. \"We're going to uphold the law, [and] not give special treatment to this infandous street-corner Cromwell who actually brags about giving 'financial support' to Hamas, a terrorist organisation banned in Canada,\" said Velshi. Galloway said he was dismayed both as an elected parliamentarian and as a Scotsman. \"Canada was built by Scotsmen, it is like being turned away from the family home. \"I will be seeking a judicial review and take this matter to court. One way or another I will be heard by the people who want to hear me.\"\u2022 This article was amended on Saturday 21 March 2009. In the article above we misquoted George Galloway: 'parliamentary' should have been 'arbitrary'. This has been amended.", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "Canada bars 'infandous' Galloway"},{"date": "2009-02-17T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Last month, the Toronto Star ran a \"survival guide\" for Barack Obama in advance of his upcoming visit to Canada on Thursday. It warned him of the Canadian \"proclivity for substance over style,\" and that, thanks to Pierre Trudeau, \"we're cool with cool, but we've already been there.\" In other words, thanks for coming, but we're totally over it already.The problem is that the opposite is true. We couldn't be happier that Barack Obama is not only choosing Canada for his first official visit, but that he knows we even exist at all. Since he does, he might also know that, generally speaking, we love him. What he probably doesn't know is why. All he would have to do to find out would be to watch the Simpsons.Almost everything anyone ever wanted to know about the Canadian identity is captured in episode 5F11 of the Simpsons. In the midst of a fracas that erupts between the delegates of the Springfield Elementary model UN, Ralph Wiggum, representing Canada and dressed as a Mountie, dutifully stands to attention and above the din begins to sing \"O! Canada\". It is difficult to find a more accurate depiction of the international Canadian persona.Ralph-as-Canada is many things all at once. He is the view looking north from the United States at the peaceful, cute, idiotic little neighbour, boasting proudly of nothing at all. He is also the mythical \"Canadian\" \u2013 the humble, internationalist, inclusive, sensible law-abider \u2013 that Canadians have convinced ourselves that we are. However, the most important persona is missing: that of the anti-American Canadian, which is now a bit of a problem. In Barack Obama, Canadians see those qualities that we love most, but our reasoning for this is flawed. Obama breaks stereotypes that we hold for our neighbours, and instead represents stereotypes that we have of ourselves. We like him because we feel he's as good as we are. This means that we like him because he is better than his countrymen. Nothing could be more self-righteous.Frustratingly, this attitude is often built on a misguided understanding of both American culture and our own. When Barack Obama spoke in Baltimore the Saturday prior to his inauguration, he described the survival of the American spirit after the White House was burned to the ground in 1814. Many here will tell you that Canadians set that fire. We didn't, the British did. This is the same assumption-driven thinking that allows us to feel that the American way of life is generally the wrong one, and ignore how much the Canadian alternative shares with it. Many Canadians can boast an extensive knowledge of the United States, and can explain their history or government. That's all fine and good. The problem comes when we're asked to explain ourselves, and the answers are often much shorter.Recently, the National Post asked: \"Can Obama end our anti-Americanism?\" Could this love we have for him finally destroy our dislike of Americans? The answer is: no. When Canada patriated its constitution, there was a feeling that finally the country had released itself from Mother Britain. The job then became one of self-definition. Unfortunately, the problem is that we never really got around to it, opting instead to continue to define our regional differences: West versus East, French versus English, Ontario versus everyone else, etc. We pretend that this is a national identity, but it's more of the same \u2013 a definition in the negative.In fact, our anti-Americanism is one of the only common threads of Canadian identity that runs, unbroken, from Confederation to the very second that I'm writing these words. Most other traits - the peacekeeping, the cultural mosaic, and so on - have developed along the way. The only other aspect to share this streak is bilingualism. Needless to say, it does not unite Canadians with quite the same degree of success.All along, our truest defining characteristic has sat at North America's waistline. The 49th parallel is a stronger Canadian symbol than anything else. It is the line between being something and being not-something. If our anti-Americanism did end, it would not be because of Barack Obama. Instead, its end would only come from it being replaced internally by something else. If that does not occur, then we have to face the scary fact that Canada is only Canada because it is not America.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Canada", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "World news", "US news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "Colin Horgan: Without America to despise, what's left for Canadians to rally around?"},{"date": "2009-03-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A furious George Galloway last night vowed to fight a ban on him entering Canada on the grounds of national security.The MP for Bethnal Green and Bow had been due to speak at a number of events in the country but his anti-war stance was drawn to the attention of the government by a Jewish group. He will challenge the decision in court.A Canadian government spokesman said that the decision would not be overturned for a man regarded as an \"infandous street-corner Cromwell\". The description of the Respect MP may have led him to his dictionary the definition of infandous is \"too odious to be expressed or mentioned\". Galloway said the comparison to Cromwell was not so offensive as he was \"the champion of parliamentary supremacy and the executor of supporters of autocratic and arbitrary power\".Galloway has been deemed \"inadmissible\" to Canada under section 34(1) of the country's immigration act.Alykhan Velshi, a spokesman for the immigration minister, said the act was designed to protect Canadians from people who fund, support or engage in terrorism. \"We're going to uphold the law, [and] not give special treatment to this infandous street-corner Cromwell who actually brags about giving 'financial support' to Hamas, a terrorist organisation banned in Canada,\" said Velshi. Galloway said he was dismayed both as an elected parliamentarian and as a Scotsman. \"Canada was built by Scotsmen, it is like being turned away from the family home. \"I will be seeking a judicial review and take this matter to court. One way or another I will be heard by the people who want to hear me.\"\u2022 This article was amended on Saturday 21 March 2009. In the article above we misquoted George Galloway: 'parliamentary' should have been 'arbitrary'. This has been amended.", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "Canada bars 'infandous' Galloway"},{"date": "2009-03-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian immigration minister Jason Kenney gazetted in the Sun yesterday morning that I was to be excluded from his country because of my views on Afghanistan. That's the way the rightwing, last-ditch dead-enders of Bushism in Ottawa conduct their business.Kenney is quite a card. A quick trawl establishes he's a gay-baiter, gung-ho armchair warrior, with an odd habit of exceeding his immigration brief. Three years ago he attacked the pro-western Lebanese prime minister, Fuad Siniora, for being ungrateful to Canada for its support of Israeli bombardment of his country. Most curiously of all, in 2006 he addressed a rally of the so-called People's Mujahideen of Iran, a Waco-style cult, banned in the European Union as a terrorist organisation. On one level being banned by such a man is like being told to sit up straight by the hunchback of Notre Dame or being lectured on due diligence by Conrad Black. On another, for a Scotsman to be excluded from Canada is like being turned away from the family home.But what are my views on Afghanistan which the Canadian government does not want its people to hear? I've never been to Afghanistan, nor have I ever met a Taliban, but my first impression into the parliamentary vellum on the subject was more than two decades ago. At the time the fathers of the Taliban were \"freedom fighters\", paraded at US Republican and British Tory conferences. Who knows, maybe even the Canadian right extolled these god-fearing opponents of communism. I did not, however. On the eve of their storming of Kabul I told Margaret Thatcher that she \"had opened the gates to the barbarians\" and that \"a long, dark night would now descend upon the people of Afghanistan\". With the same conviction, I say to the Canadian and other Nato governments today that your policy is equally a profound mistake. From time to time and with increased regularity it is a crime. Like the bombardment of wedding parties and even funerals or the presiding over a record opium crop, which under our noses finds its way coursing through the veins of young people from Nova Scotia to Newcastle upon Tyne. But it is worse than a crime, as Tallyrand said, it's a blunder. The Afghans have never succumbed to foreign occupation, heaven knows the British empire tried, tried and failed again. Not even Alexander the Great succeeded, and whoever else he is, minister Kenney is no Alexander the Great. Young Canadian soldiers are dying in significant numbers on Afghanistan's plains. Their families are entitled to know how many of us believe this adventure to be similarly doomed and that genuine support for troops - British, Canadian and other - means bringing them home and changing course. To ban a five-times elected British MP from addressing public events or keeping appointments with television and radio programmes is a serious matter. Kenney's \"spokesman\" told the Sun, \"Galloway's not coming in ... end of story.\" Alas for him, it's not. Canada remains a free country governed by law and my friends are even now seeking a judicial review. And there are other ways I can address those Canadians who wish to hear me. More than half a century ago Paul Robeson, one of the greatest men who ever lived, was forbidden to enter Canada not by Ottawa but by Washington, which had taken away his passport. But he was still able to transfix a vast crowd of Vancouver's mill hands and miners with a 17-minute telephone concert, culminating in a rendition of the Ballad of Joe Hill. Technology has moved on since then. And so from coast to coast, minister Kenney notwithstanding, I will be heard - one way or another.\u2022 George Galloway is Respect MP for Bethnal Green and Bow gallowayg@parliament.uk", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "World news", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "George Galloway: Canada can't muzzle me"},{"date": "2009-02-17T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Last month, the Toronto Star ran a \"survival guide\" for Barack Obama in advance of his upcoming visit to Canada on Thursday. It warned him of the Canadian \"proclivity for substance over style,\" and that, thanks to Pierre Trudeau, \"we're cool with cool, but we've already been there.\" In other words, thanks for coming, but we're totally over it already.The problem is that the opposite is true. We couldn't be happier that Barack Obama is not only choosing Canada for his first official visit, but that he knows we even exist at all. Since he does, he might also know that, generally speaking, we love him. What he probably doesn't know is why. All he would have to do to find out would be to watch the Simpsons.Almost everything anyone ever wanted to know about the Canadian identity is captured in episode 5F11 of the Simpsons. In the midst of a fracas that erupts between the delegates of the Springfield Elementary model UN, Ralph Wiggum, representing Canada and dressed as a Mountie, dutifully stands to attention and above the din begins to sing \"O! Canada\". It is difficult to find a more accurate depiction of the international Canadian persona.Ralph-as-Canada is many things all at once. He is the view looking north from the United States at the peaceful, cute, idiotic little neighbour, boasting proudly of nothing at all. He is also the mythical \"Canadian\" \u2013 the humble, internationalist, inclusive, sensible law-abider \u2013 that Canadians have convinced ourselves that we are. However, the most important persona is missing: that of the anti-American Canadian, which is now a bit of a problem. In Barack Obama, Canadians see those qualities that we love most, but our reasoning for this is flawed. Obama breaks stereotypes that we hold for our neighbours, and instead represents stereotypes that we have of ourselves. We like him because we feel he's as good as we are. This means that we like him because he is better than his countrymen. Nothing could be more self-righteous.Frustratingly, this attitude is often built on a misguided understanding of both American culture and our own. When Barack Obama spoke in Baltimore the Saturday prior to his inauguration, he described the survival of the American spirit after the White House was burned to the ground in 1814. Many here will tell you that Canadians set that fire. We didn't, the British did. This is the same assumption-driven thinking that allows us to feel that the American way of life is generally the wrong one, and ignore how much the Canadian alternative shares with it. Many Canadians can boast an extensive knowledge of the United States, and can explain their history or government. That's all fine and good. The problem comes when we're asked to explain ourselves, and the answers are often much shorter.Recently, the National Post asked: \"Can Obama end our anti-Americanism?\" Could this love we have for him finally destroy our dislike of Americans? The answer is: no. When Canada patriated its constitution, there was a feeling that finally the country had released itself from Mother Britain. The job then became one of self-definition. Unfortunately, the problem is that we never really got around to it, opting instead to continue to define our regional differences: West versus East, French versus English, Ontario versus everyone else, etc. We pretend that this is a national identity, but it's more of the same \u2013 a definition in the negative.In fact, our anti-Americanism is one of the only common threads of Canadian identity that runs, unbroken, from Confederation to the very second that I'm writing these words. Most other traits - the peacekeeping, the cultural mosaic, and so on - have developed along the way. The only other aspect to share this streak is bilingualism. Needless to say, it does not unite Canadians with quite the same degree of success.All along, our truest defining characteristic has sat at North America's waistline. The 49th parallel is a stronger Canadian symbol than anything else. It is the line between being something and being not-something. If our anti-Americanism did end, it would not be because of Barack Obama. Instead, its end would only come from it being replaced internally by something else. If that does not occur, then we have to face the scary fact that Canada is only Canada because it is not America.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Canada", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "World news", "US news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "Colin Horgan: Without America to despise, what's left for Canadians to rally around?"},{"date": "2009-03-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A furious George Galloway last night vowed to fight a ban on him entering Canada on the grounds of national security.The MP for Bethnal Green and Bow had been due to speak at a number of events in the country but his anti-war stance was drawn to the attention of the government by a Jewish group. He will challenge the decision in court.A Canadian government spokesman said that the decision would not be overturned for a man regarded as an \"infandous street-corner Cromwell\". The description of the Respect MP may have led him to his dictionary the definition of infandous is \"too odious to be expressed or mentioned\". Galloway said the comparison to Cromwell was not so offensive as he was \"the champion of parliamentary supremacy and the executor of supporters of autocratic and arbitrary power\".Galloway has been deemed \"inadmissible\" to Canada under section 34(1) of the country's immigration act.Alykhan Velshi, a spokesman for the immigration minister, said the act was designed to protect Canadians from people who fund, support or engage in terrorism. \"We're going to uphold the law, [and] not give special treatment to this infandous street-corner Cromwell who actually brags about giving 'financial support' to Hamas, a terrorist organisation banned in Canada,\" said Velshi. Galloway said he was dismayed both as an elected parliamentarian and as a Scotsman. \"Canada was built by Scotsmen, it is like being turned away from the family home. \"I will be seeking a judicial review and take this matter to court. One way or another I will be heard by the people who want to hear me.\"\u2022 This article was amended on Saturday 21 March 2009. In the article above we misquoted George Galloway: 'parliamentary' should have been 'arbitrary'. This has been amended.", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "Canada bars 'infandous' Galloway"},{"date": "2009-03-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian immigration minister Jason Kenney gazetted in the Sun yesterday morning that I was to be excluded from his country because of my views on Afghanistan. That's the way the rightwing, last-ditch dead-enders of Bushism in Ottawa conduct their business.Kenney is quite a card. A quick trawl establishes he's a gay-baiter, gung-ho armchair warrior, with an odd habit of exceeding his immigration brief. Three years ago he attacked the pro-western Lebanese prime minister, Fuad Siniora, for being ungrateful to Canada for its support of Israeli bombardment of his country. Most curiously of all, in 2006 he addressed a rally of the so-called People's Mujahideen of Iran, a Waco-style cult, banned in the European Union as a terrorist organisation. On one level being banned by such a man is like being told to sit up straight by the hunchback of Notre Dame or being lectured on due diligence by Conrad Black. On another, for a Scotsman to be excluded from Canada is like being turned away from the family home.But what are my views on Afghanistan which the Canadian government does not want its people to hear? I've never been to Afghanistan, nor have I ever met a Taliban, but my first impression into the parliamentary vellum on the subject was more than two decades ago. At the time the fathers of the Taliban were \"freedom fighters\", paraded at US Republican and British Tory conferences. Who knows, maybe even the Canadian right extolled these god-fearing opponents of communism. I did not, however. On the eve of their storming of Kabul I told Margaret Thatcher that she \"had opened the gates to the barbarians\" and that \"a long, dark night would now descend upon the people of Afghanistan\". With the same conviction, I say to the Canadian and other Nato governments today that your policy is equally a profound mistake. From time to time and with increased regularity it is a crime. Like the bombardment of wedding parties and even funerals or the presiding over a record opium crop, which under our noses finds its way coursing through the veins of young people from Nova Scotia to Newcastle upon Tyne. But it is worse than a crime, as Tallyrand said, it's a blunder. The Afghans have never succumbed to foreign occupation, heaven knows the British empire tried, tried and failed again. Not even Alexander the Great succeeded, and whoever else he is, minister Kenney is no Alexander the Great. Young Canadian soldiers are dying in significant numbers on Afghanistan's plains. Their families are entitled to know how many of us believe this adventure to be similarly doomed and that genuine support for troops - British, Canadian and other - means bringing them home and changing course. To ban a five-times elected British MP from addressing public events or keeping appointments with television and radio programmes is a serious matter. Kenney's \"spokesman\" told the Sun, \"Galloway's not coming in ... end of story.\" Alas for him, it's not. Canada remains a free country governed by law and my friends are even now seeking a judicial review. And there are other ways I can address those Canadians who wish to hear me. More than half a century ago Paul Robeson, one of the greatest men who ever lived, was forbidden to enter Canada not by Ottawa but by Washington, which had taken away his passport. But he was still able to transfix a vast crowd of Vancouver's mill hands and miners with a 17-minute telephone concert, culminating in a rendition of the Ballad of Joe Hill. Technology has moved on since then. And so from coast to coast, minister Kenney notwithstanding, I will be heard - one way or another.\u2022 George Galloway is Respect MP for Bethnal Green and Bow gallowayg@parliament.uk", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "World news", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "George Galloway: Canada can't muzzle me"},{"date": "2009-03-20T15:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Anti-war MP George Galloway has been banned from Canada, it emerged today.A Canadian spokesman confirmed that the Respect MP had been deemed inadmissible on national security grounds and would not be allowed into the country.Galloway today branded the ban \"idiotic\" and vowed to fight the ruling with \"all means\" at his disposal. He is due to give a speech in Toronto on 30 March.Earlier today the Sun said border security officials had declared Galloway, 54, \"inadmissible\" because of his views on Afghanistan and the presence of Canadian troops there and would be turned away if he attempted to enter the country.A spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Canada said the decision had been taken by border security officials \"based on a number of factors\" in accordance with section 34(1) of the country's immigration act.The act states:\"A permanent resident or a foreign national is inadmissible on security grounds for:(a) engaging in an act of espionage or an act of subversion against a democratic government, institution or process as they are understood in Canada;(b) engaging in or instigating the subversion by force of any government;(c) engaging in terrorism;(d) being a danger to the security of Canada;(e) engaging in acts of violence that would or might endanger the lives or safety of persons in Canada; or(f) being a member of an organisation that there are reasonable grounds to believe engages, has engaged or will engage in acts referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c).\"Galloway, MP for Bethnal Green and Bow, is consulting the organisers of his north American speaking tour and exploring whether legal action can be taken to overturn the ban.Jason Kenney, Canada's immigration minister, has the right to exempt people from the act if it is felt that their presence would not be \"detrimental to the national interest\".But a spokesman said Kenney would \"decline to exercise that discretion\" in Galloway's case.Alykhan Velshi, Kenney's spokesman, said that the act was designed to protect Canadians from people who fund, support or engage in terrorism.\"We're going to uphold the law, not give special treatment to this infandous street-corner Cromwell who actually brags about giving 'financial support' to Hamas, a terrorist organisation banned in Canada,\" he said. \"I'm sure Galloway has a large Rolodex of friends in regimes elsewhere in the world willing to roll out the red carpet for him. Canada, however, won't be one of them.\"Responding to the news, Galloway issued a statement headed: \"This idiotic ban shames Canada.\"The MP said: \"This decision, gazetted in Rupert Murdoch's Sun, is a very sad day for the Canada we have known and loved \u2013 a bastion of the freedoms that supporters of the occupation of Afghanistan claim to be defending.\"This has further vindicated the anti-war movement's contention that unjust wars abroad will end up consuming the very liberties that make us who we are.\"This may be a rather desperate election ploy by a conservative government reaching the end of line, or by a minister who has not cottoned on to the fact that the George Bush era is over.\"All right-thinking Canadians, whether they agree with me over the wisdom of sending troops to Afghanistan or not, will oppose this outrageous decision.\"On a personal note \u2013 for a Scotsman to be barred from Canada is like being told to stay away from the family home.\"This is not something I'm prepared to accept.\"Galloway is due to speak at a public forum entitled Resisting War from Gaza to Kandahar, hosted by the Toronto Coalition to Stop the War later this month.He is also due to speak at a second public forum in Mississauga, west of Toronto, on 31 March.His proposed visit prompted the Jewish Defence League of Canada to write an open letter to the country's government urging it to do \"everything possible to keep this hater away\".In 2006, Galloway was refused entry to Egypt on the grounds of national security after he travelled to the country to give evidence at a \"mock trial\" of Tony Blair and George Bush.He was held overnight in a police cell before the authorities changed their minds and allowed him into the country.", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "George Galloway banned from Canada"},{"date": "2009-02-17T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Last month, the Toronto Star ran a \"survival guide\" for Barack Obama in advance of his upcoming visit to Canada on Thursday. It warned him of the Canadian \"proclivity for substance over style,\" and that, thanks to Pierre Trudeau, \"we're cool with cool, but we've already been there.\" In other words, thanks for coming, but we're totally over it already.The problem is that the opposite is true. We couldn't be happier that Barack Obama is not only choosing Canada for his first official visit, but that he knows we even exist at all. Since he does, he might also know that, generally speaking, we love him. What he probably doesn't know is why. All he would have to do to find out would be to watch the Simpsons.Almost everything anyone ever wanted to know about the Canadian identity is captured in episode 5F11 of the Simpsons. In the midst of a fracas that erupts between the delegates of the Springfield Elementary model UN, Ralph Wiggum, representing Canada and dressed as a Mountie, dutifully stands to attention and above the din begins to sing \"O! Canada\". It is difficult to find a more accurate depiction of the international Canadian persona.Ralph-as-Canada is many things all at once. He is the view looking north from the United States at the peaceful, cute, idiotic little neighbour, boasting proudly of nothing at all. He is also the mythical \"Canadian\" \u2013 the humble, internationalist, inclusive, sensible law-abider \u2013 that Canadians have convinced ourselves that we are. However, the most important persona is missing: that of the anti-American Canadian, which is now a bit of a problem. In Barack Obama, Canadians see those qualities that we love most, but our reasoning for this is flawed. Obama breaks stereotypes that we hold for our neighbours, and instead represents stereotypes that we have of ourselves. We like him because we feel he's as good as we are. This means that we like him because he is better than his countrymen. Nothing could be more self-righteous.Frustratingly, this attitude is often built on a misguided understanding of both American culture and our own. When Barack Obama spoke in Baltimore the Saturday prior to his inauguration, he described the survival of the American spirit after the White House was burned to the ground in 1814. Many here will tell you that Canadians set that fire. We didn't, the British did. This is the same assumption-driven thinking that allows us to feel that the American way of life is generally the wrong one, and ignore how much the Canadian alternative shares with it. Many Canadians can boast an extensive knowledge of the United States, and can explain their history or government. That's all fine and good. The problem comes when we're asked to explain ourselves, and the answers are often much shorter.Recently, the National Post asked: \"Can Obama end our anti-Americanism?\" Could this love we have for him finally destroy our dislike of Americans? The answer is: no. When Canada patriated its constitution, there was a feeling that finally the country had released itself from Mother Britain. The job then became one of self-definition. Unfortunately, the problem is that we never really got around to it, opting instead to continue to define our regional differences: West versus East, French versus English, Ontario versus everyone else, etc. We pretend that this is a national identity, but it's more of the same \u2013 a definition in the negative.In fact, our anti-Americanism is one of the only common threads of Canadian identity that runs, unbroken, from Confederation to the very second that I'm writing these words. Most other traits - the peacekeeping, the cultural mosaic, and so on - have developed along the way. The only other aspect to share this streak is bilingualism. Needless to say, it does not unite Canadians with quite the same degree of success.All along, our truest defining characteristic has sat at North America's waistline. The 49th parallel is a stronger Canadian symbol than anything else. It is the line between being something and being not-something. If our anti-Americanism did end, it would not be because of Barack Obama. Instead, its end would only come from it being replaced internally by something else. If that does not occur, then we have to face the scary fact that Canada is only Canada because it is not America.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Canada", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "World news", "US news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "Colin Horgan: Without America to despise, what's left for Canadians to rally around?"},{"date": "2009-03-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A furious George Galloway last night vowed to fight a ban on him entering Canada on the grounds of national security.The MP for Bethnal Green and Bow had been due to speak at a number of events in the country but his anti-war stance was drawn to the attention of the government by a Jewish group. He will challenge the decision in court.A Canadian government spokesman said that the decision would not be overturned for a man regarded as an \"infandous street-corner Cromwell\". The description of the Respect MP may have led him to his dictionary the definition of infandous is \"too odious to be expressed or mentioned\". Galloway said the comparison to Cromwell was not so offensive as he was \"the champion of parliamentary supremacy and the executor of supporters of autocratic and arbitrary power\".Galloway has been deemed \"inadmissible\" to Canada under section 34(1) of the country's immigration act.Alykhan Velshi, a spokesman for the immigration minister, said the act was designed to protect Canadians from people who fund, support or engage in terrorism. \"We're going to uphold the law, [and] not give special treatment to this infandous street-corner Cromwell who actually brags about giving 'financial support' to Hamas, a terrorist organisation banned in Canada,\" said Velshi. Galloway said he was dismayed both as an elected parliamentarian and as a Scotsman. \"Canada was built by Scotsmen, it is like being turned away from the family home. \"I will be seeking a judicial review and take this matter to court. One way or another I will be heard by the people who want to hear me.\"\u2022 This article was amended on Saturday 21 March 2009. In the article above we misquoted George Galloway: 'parliamentary' should have been 'arbitrary'. This has been amended.", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "Canada bars 'infandous' Galloway"},{"date": "2009-03-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian immigration minister Jason Kenney gazetted in the Sun yesterday morning that I was to be excluded from his country because of my views on Afghanistan. That's the way the rightwing, last-ditch dead-enders of Bushism in Ottawa conduct their business.Kenney is quite a card. A quick trawl establishes he's a gay-baiter, gung-ho armchair warrior, with an odd habit of exceeding his immigration brief. Three years ago he attacked the pro-western Lebanese prime minister, Fuad Siniora, for being ungrateful to Canada for its support of Israeli bombardment of his country. Most curiously of all, in 2006 he addressed a rally of the so-called People's Mujahideen of Iran, a Waco-style cult, banned in the European Union as a terrorist organisation. On one level being banned by such a man is like being told to sit up straight by the hunchback of Notre Dame or being lectured on due diligence by Conrad Black. On another, for a Scotsman to be excluded from Canada is like being turned away from the family home.But what are my views on Afghanistan which the Canadian government does not want its people to hear? I've never been to Afghanistan, nor have I ever met a Taliban, but my first impression into the parliamentary vellum on the subject was more than two decades ago. At the time the fathers of the Taliban were \"freedom fighters\", paraded at US Republican and British Tory conferences. Who knows, maybe even the Canadian right extolled these god-fearing opponents of communism. I did not, however. On the eve of their storming of Kabul I told Margaret Thatcher that she \"had opened the gates to the barbarians\" and that \"a long, dark night would now descend upon the people of Afghanistan\". With the same conviction, I say to the Canadian and other Nato governments today that your policy is equally a profound mistake. From time to time and with increased regularity it is a crime. Like the bombardment of wedding parties and even funerals or the presiding over a record opium crop, which under our noses finds its way coursing through the veins of young people from Nova Scotia to Newcastle upon Tyne. But it is worse than a crime, as Tallyrand said, it's a blunder. The Afghans have never succumbed to foreign occupation, heaven knows the British empire tried, tried and failed again. Not even Alexander the Great succeeded, and whoever else he is, minister Kenney is no Alexander the Great. Young Canadian soldiers are dying in significant numbers on Afghanistan's plains. Their families are entitled to know how many of us believe this adventure to be similarly doomed and that genuine support for troops - British, Canadian and other - means bringing them home and changing course. To ban a five-times elected British MP from addressing public events or keeping appointments with television and radio programmes is a serious matter. Kenney's \"spokesman\" told the Sun, \"Galloway's not coming in ... end of story.\" Alas for him, it's not. Canada remains a free country governed by law and my friends are even now seeking a judicial review. And there are other ways I can address those Canadians who wish to hear me. More than half a century ago Paul Robeson, one of the greatest men who ever lived, was forbidden to enter Canada not by Ottawa but by Washington, which had taken away his passport. But he was still able to transfix a vast crowd of Vancouver's mill hands and miners with a 17-minute telephone concert, culminating in a rendition of the Ballad of Joe Hill. Technology has moved on since then. And so from coast to coast, minister Kenney notwithstanding, I will be heard - one way or another.\u2022 George Galloway is Respect MP for Bethnal Green and Bow gallowayg@parliament.uk", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "World news", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "George Galloway: Canada can't muzzle me"},{"date": "2009-03-20T15:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Anti-war MP George Galloway has been banned from Canada, it emerged today.A Canadian spokesman confirmed that the Respect MP had been deemed inadmissible on national security grounds and would not be allowed into the country.Galloway today branded the ban \"idiotic\" and vowed to fight the ruling with \"all means\" at his disposal. He is due to give a speech in Toronto on 30 March.Earlier today the Sun said border security officials had declared Galloway, 54, \"inadmissible\" because of his views on Afghanistan and the presence of Canadian troops there and would be turned away if he attempted to enter the country.A spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Canada said the decision had been taken by border security officials \"based on a number of factors\" in accordance with section 34(1) of the country's immigration act.The act states:\"A permanent resident or a foreign national is inadmissible on security grounds for:(a) engaging in an act of espionage or an act of subversion against a democratic government, institution or process as they are understood in Canada;(b) engaging in or instigating the subversion by force of any government;(c) engaging in terrorism;(d) being a danger to the security of Canada;(e) engaging in acts of violence that would or might endanger the lives or safety of persons in Canada; or(f) being a member of an organisation that there are reasonable grounds to believe engages, has engaged or will engage in acts referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c).\"Galloway, MP for Bethnal Green and Bow, is consulting the organisers of his north American speaking tour and exploring whether legal action can be taken to overturn the ban.Jason Kenney, Canada's immigration minister, has the right to exempt people from the act if it is felt that their presence would not be \"detrimental to the national interest\".But a spokesman said Kenney would \"decline to exercise that discretion\" in Galloway's case.Alykhan Velshi, Kenney's spokesman, said that the act was designed to protect Canadians from people who fund, support or engage in terrorism.\"We're going to uphold the law, not give special treatment to this infandous street-corner Cromwell who actually brags about giving 'financial support' to Hamas, a terrorist organisation banned in Canada,\" he said. \"I'm sure Galloway has a large Rolodex of friends in regimes elsewhere in the world willing to roll out the red carpet for him. Canada, however, won't be one of them.\"Responding to the news, Galloway issued a statement headed: \"This idiotic ban shames Canada.\"The MP said: \"This decision, gazetted in Rupert Murdoch's Sun, is a very sad day for the Canada we have known and loved \u2013 a bastion of the freedoms that supporters of the occupation of Afghanistan claim to be defending.\"This has further vindicated the anti-war movement's contention that unjust wars abroad will end up consuming the very liberties that make us who we are.\"This may be a rather desperate election ploy by a conservative government reaching the end of line, or by a minister who has not cottoned on to the fact that the George Bush era is over.\"All right-thinking Canadians, whether they agree with me over the wisdom of sending troops to Afghanistan or not, will oppose this outrageous decision.\"On a personal note \u2013 for a Scotsman to be barred from Canada is like being told to stay away from the family home.\"This is not something I'm prepared to accept.\"Galloway is due to speak at a public forum entitled Resisting War from Gaza to Kandahar, hosted by the Toronto Coalition to Stop the War later this month.He is also due to speak at a second public forum in Mississauga, west of Toronto, on 31 March.His proposed visit prompted the Jewish Defence League of Canada to write an open letter to the country's government urging it to do \"everything possible to keep this hater away\".In 2006, Galloway was refused entry to Egypt on the grounds of national security after he travelled to the country to give evidence at a \"mock trial\" of Tony Blair and George Bush.He was held overnight in a police cell before the authorities changed their minds and allowed him into the country.", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "George Galloway banned from Canada"},{"date": "2009-02-20T15:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Obama made his first foreign visit this week, a trip to Canada, and Canada is pleased. Back in 2001, George Bush violated half a century of tradition when he chose Mexico as his first state visit, and now the hope, on all sides, is that we can go back to the way things used to be. Unfortunately, that seems impossible. The legacy of the Bush years has left a deep distrust that can't be erased even with the new president's immense charisma. We love Obama here \u2013 who doesn't \u2013 the question is, can we believe what he says?The previous American presidency was disastrous for US-Canada relations. A series of trade disputes, focused principally on softwood lumber, caused intense resentment north of the border. Obama seems to have quashed the nascent protectionism of the \"buy US\" provisions in the stimulus package, which would have been disastrous for Canada, but he had to admit in an interview with the CBC that the governments of states and cities operate their own budgets. We are not necessarily the good guys in these negotiations: his commitment to environmentalism could lead to a rejection of oil from the Alberta tar sands, which is among the dirtiest forms of energy in the world and a major export. Border issues are also a sticking point. Thousands of Canadians commute across the border, and the response to 9/11 and the Mexican drug war has affected us profoundly. It used to be that you could cross the border with a driver's licence and a smile. Now they want your fingerprints. Then there's Afghanistan. Obama wants us to stay beyond 2011. The majority of Canadians are losing stomach for a war that is evidently unwinnable and accompanied by a rising death toll.All these ultimately minor and resolvable issues hide a deeper problem. The American government over the past eight years has been utterly capricious about keeping international agreements. For us, it was the North America Free Trade Agreement; for others, it was the nuclear non-proliferation treaty; for the world at large, it was the Geneva conventions. The problem is one of primitive schoolboy honour. Obama may be straight, but what about the next guy? What if there's another terrorist attack? Does that automatically mean that America's agreements no longer apply?Canada has always had the best seat for the American drama. We are Horatio to their Hamlet. Canadian anti-Americanism, though prevalent, is tempered with affection, even brotherliness. Mostly it takes the form of exasperation: \"Why do you have to be so crazy?\" (There is also a healthy dose of envy for their madness \u2013 the lows are so much lower there, but the highs are so much higher.) Canadians know the failings of Americans better than others, and are also more aware of Americans' brilliance and huge generosity of spirit. So no one was more relieved at America's return to sense and decency with Obama than Canadians. The Bush years revealed that visits like Obama's just don't matter in the end. America is going to do what it wants, and not just with geopolitical irrelevancies like Canada. When Tony Blair believed that he could influence America by joining the Iraq war effort, Canadians knew that this idea was strictly for suckers, a product of the deluded vanity of ex-empire. America operates a booty call diplomacy; they call when they need you and you never cross their mind when they don't. Hillary Clinton recently told David Miliband that the relationship between the US and Britain was \"certainly special in my eyes,\" and you could almost see \"they like us, they really like us,\" in his puppy dog gaze. Take it from Canada, Miliband, don't expect a call the morning after. America's political narcissism is such that they forget instantly when you do what they want, and they forget if you don't do what they want. Canada's decision to go to Afghanistan has had no positive repercussions. Our decision to stay out of Iraq has had no negative consequences. They simply don't notice one way or the other. Despite this, President Obama is more popular in Canada than any Canadian politician. The Irish can sing \"there's no one more Irish than Barack O'Bama\" but the Canadian elements of his personality are more immediately apparent. He admires Swedish banking, he believes in universal healthcare and, like most of Toronto, now the most multicultural city in the world, he comes from a peripatetic, racially diverse family. He's practically one of us. Unfortunately, he's president of them.", "tags": ["Canada", "Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "US economy", "World news", "US news", "Environment", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "Stephen Marche: Canada: Horatio to Obama's Hamlet"},{"date": "2009-02-17T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Last month, the Toronto Star ran a \"survival guide\" for Barack Obama in advance of his upcoming visit to Canada on Thursday. It warned him of the Canadian \"proclivity for substance over style,\" and that, thanks to Pierre Trudeau, \"we're cool with cool, but we've already been there.\" In other words, thanks for coming, but we're totally over it already.The problem is that the opposite is true. We couldn't be happier that Barack Obama is not only choosing Canada for his first official visit, but that he knows we even exist at all. Since he does, he might also know that, generally speaking, we love him. What he probably doesn't know is why. All he would have to do to find out would be to watch the Simpsons.Almost everything anyone ever wanted to know about the Canadian identity is captured in episode 5F11 of the Simpsons. In the midst of a fracas that erupts between the delegates of the Springfield Elementary model UN, Ralph Wiggum, representing Canada and dressed as a Mountie, dutifully stands to attention and above the din begins to sing \"O! Canada\". It is difficult to find a more accurate depiction of the international Canadian persona.Ralph-as-Canada is many things all at once. He is the view looking north from the United States at the peaceful, cute, idiotic little neighbour, boasting proudly of nothing at all. He is also the mythical \"Canadian\" \u2013 the humble, internationalist, inclusive, sensible law-abider \u2013 that Canadians have convinced ourselves that we are. However, the most important persona is missing: that of the anti-American Canadian, which is now a bit of a problem. In Barack Obama, Canadians see those qualities that we love most, but our reasoning for this is flawed. Obama breaks stereotypes that we hold for our neighbours, and instead represents stereotypes that we have of ourselves. We like him because we feel he's as good as we are. This means that we like him because he is better than his countrymen. Nothing could be more self-righteous.Frustratingly, this attitude is often built on a misguided understanding of both American culture and our own. When Barack Obama spoke in Baltimore the Saturday prior to his inauguration, he described the survival of the American spirit after the White House was burned to the ground in 1814. Many here will tell you that Canadians set that fire. We didn't, the British did. This is the same assumption-driven thinking that allows us to feel that the American way of life is generally the wrong one, and ignore how much the Canadian alternative shares with it. Many Canadians can boast an extensive knowledge of the United States, and can explain their history or government. That's all fine and good. The problem comes when we're asked to explain ourselves, and the answers are often much shorter.Recently, the National Post asked: \"Can Obama end our anti-Americanism?\" Could this love we have for him finally destroy our dislike of Americans? The answer is: no. When Canada patriated its constitution, there was a feeling that finally the country had released itself from Mother Britain. The job then became one of self-definition. Unfortunately, the problem is that we never really got around to it, opting instead to continue to define our regional differences: West versus East, French versus English, Ontario versus everyone else, etc. We pretend that this is a national identity, but it's more of the same \u2013 a definition in the negative.In fact, our anti-Americanism is one of the only common threads of Canadian identity that runs, unbroken, from Confederation to the very second that I'm writing these words. Most other traits - the peacekeeping, the cultural mosaic, and so on - have developed along the way. The only other aspect to share this streak is bilingualism. Needless to say, it does not unite Canadians with quite the same degree of success.All along, our truest defining characteristic has sat at North America's waistline. The 49th parallel is a stronger Canadian symbol than anything else. It is the line between being something and being not-something. If our anti-Americanism did end, it would not be because of Barack Obama. Instead, its end would only come from it being replaced internally by something else. If that does not occur, then we have to face the scary fact that Canada is only Canada because it is not America.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Canada", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "World news", "US news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "Colin Horgan: Without America to despise, what's left for Canadians to rally around?"},{"date": "2009-03-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A furious George Galloway last night vowed to fight a ban on him entering Canada on the grounds of national security.The MP for Bethnal Green and Bow had been due to speak at a number of events in the country but his anti-war stance was drawn to the attention of the government by a Jewish group. He will challenge the decision in court.A Canadian government spokesman said that the decision would not be overturned for a man regarded as an \"infandous street-corner Cromwell\". The description of the Respect MP may have led him to his dictionary the definition of infandous is \"too odious to be expressed or mentioned\". Galloway said the comparison to Cromwell was not so offensive as he was \"the champion of parliamentary supremacy and the executor of supporters of autocratic and arbitrary power\".Galloway has been deemed \"inadmissible\" to Canada under section 34(1) of the country's immigration act.Alykhan Velshi, a spokesman for the immigration minister, said the act was designed to protect Canadians from people who fund, support or engage in terrorism. \"We're going to uphold the law, [and] not give special treatment to this infandous street-corner Cromwell who actually brags about giving 'financial support' to Hamas, a terrorist organisation banned in Canada,\" said Velshi. Galloway said he was dismayed both as an elected parliamentarian and as a Scotsman. \"Canada was built by Scotsmen, it is like being turned away from the family home. \"I will be seeking a judicial review and take this matter to court. One way or another I will be heard by the people who want to hear me.\"\u2022 This article was amended on Saturday 21 March 2009. In the article above we misquoted George Galloway: 'parliamentary' should have been 'arbitrary'. This has been amended.", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "Canada bars 'infandous' Galloway"},{"date": "2009-03-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian immigration minister Jason Kenney gazetted in the Sun yesterday morning that I was to be excluded from his country because of my views on Afghanistan. That's the way the rightwing, last-ditch dead-enders of Bushism in Ottawa conduct their business.Kenney is quite a card. A quick trawl establishes he's a gay-baiter, gung-ho armchair warrior, with an odd habit of exceeding his immigration brief. Three years ago he attacked the pro-western Lebanese prime minister, Fuad Siniora, for being ungrateful to Canada for its support of Israeli bombardment of his country. Most curiously of all, in 2006 he addressed a rally of the so-called People's Mujahideen of Iran, a Waco-style cult, banned in the European Union as a terrorist organisation. On one level being banned by such a man is like being told to sit up straight by the hunchback of Notre Dame or being lectured on due diligence by Conrad Black. On another, for a Scotsman to be excluded from Canada is like being turned away from the family home.But what are my views on Afghanistan which the Canadian government does not want its people to hear? I've never been to Afghanistan, nor have I ever met a Taliban, but my first impression into the parliamentary vellum on the subject was more than two decades ago. At the time the fathers of the Taliban were \"freedom fighters\", paraded at US Republican and British Tory conferences. Who knows, maybe even the Canadian right extolled these god-fearing opponents of communism. I did not, however. On the eve of their storming of Kabul I told Margaret Thatcher that she \"had opened the gates to the barbarians\" and that \"a long, dark night would now descend upon the people of Afghanistan\". With the same conviction, I say to the Canadian and other Nato governments today that your policy is equally a profound mistake. From time to time and with increased regularity it is a crime. Like the bombardment of wedding parties and even funerals or the presiding over a record opium crop, which under our noses finds its way coursing through the veins of young people from Nova Scotia to Newcastle upon Tyne. But it is worse than a crime, as Tallyrand said, it's a blunder. The Afghans have never succumbed to foreign occupation, heaven knows the British empire tried, tried and failed again. Not even Alexander the Great succeeded, and whoever else he is, minister Kenney is no Alexander the Great. Young Canadian soldiers are dying in significant numbers on Afghanistan's plains. Their families are entitled to know how many of us believe this adventure to be similarly doomed and that genuine support for troops - British, Canadian and other - means bringing them home and changing course. To ban a five-times elected British MP from addressing public events or keeping appointments with television and radio programmes is a serious matter. Kenney's \"spokesman\" told the Sun, \"Galloway's not coming in ... end of story.\" Alas for him, it's not. Canada remains a free country governed by law and my friends are even now seeking a judicial review. And there are other ways I can address those Canadians who wish to hear me. More than half a century ago Paul Robeson, one of the greatest men who ever lived, was forbidden to enter Canada not by Ottawa but by Washington, which had taken away his passport. But he was still able to transfix a vast crowd of Vancouver's mill hands and miners with a 17-minute telephone concert, culminating in a rendition of the Ballad of Joe Hill. Technology has moved on since then. And so from coast to coast, minister Kenney notwithstanding, I will be heard - one way or another.\u2022 George Galloway is Respect MP for Bethnal Green and Bow gallowayg@parliament.uk", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "World news", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "George Galloway: Canada can't muzzle me"},{"date": "2009-03-20T15:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Anti-war MP George Galloway has been banned from Canada, it emerged today.A Canadian spokesman confirmed that the Respect MP had been deemed inadmissible on national security grounds and would not be allowed into the country.Galloway today branded the ban \"idiotic\" and vowed to fight the ruling with \"all means\" at his disposal. He is due to give a speech in Toronto on 30 March.Earlier today the Sun said border security officials had declared Galloway, 54, \"inadmissible\" because of his views on Afghanistan and the presence of Canadian troops there and would be turned away if he attempted to enter the country.A spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Canada said the decision had been taken by border security officials \"based on a number of factors\" in accordance with section 34(1) of the country's immigration act.The act states:\"A permanent resident or a foreign national is inadmissible on security grounds for:(a) engaging in an act of espionage or an act of subversion against a democratic government, institution or process as they are understood in Canada;(b) engaging in or instigating the subversion by force of any government;(c) engaging in terrorism;(d) being a danger to the security of Canada;(e) engaging in acts of violence that would or might endanger the lives or safety of persons in Canada; or(f) being a member of an organisation that there are reasonable grounds to believe engages, has engaged or will engage in acts referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c).\"Galloway, MP for Bethnal Green and Bow, is consulting the organisers of his north American speaking tour and exploring whether legal action can be taken to overturn the ban.Jason Kenney, Canada's immigration minister, has the right to exempt people from the act if it is felt that their presence would not be \"detrimental to the national interest\".But a spokesman said Kenney would \"decline to exercise that discretion\" in Galloway's case.Alykhan Velshi, Kenney's spokesman, said that the act was designed to protect Canadians from people who fund, support or engage in terrorism.\"We're going to uphold the law, not give special treatment to this infandous street-corner Cromwell who actually brags about giving 'financial support' to Hamas, a terrorist organisation banned in Canada,\" he said. \"I'm sure Galloway has a large Rolodex of friends in regimes elsewhere in the world willing to roll out the red carpet for him. Canada, however, won't be one of them.\"Responding to the news, Galloway issued a statement headed: \"This idiotic ban shames Canada.\"The MP said: \"This decision, gazetted in Rupert Murdoch's Sun, is a very sad day for the Canada we have known and loved \u2013 a bastion of the freedoms that supporters of the occupation of Afghanistan claim to be defending.\"This has further vindicated the anti-war movement's contention that unjust wars abroad will end up consuming the very liberties that make us who we are.\"This may be a rather desperate election ploy by a conservative government reaching the end of line, or by a minister who has not cottoned on to the fact that the George Bush era is over.\"All right-thinking Canadians, whether they agree with me over the wisdom of sending troops to Afghanistan or not, will oppose this outrageous decision.\"On a personal note \u2013 for a Scotsman to be barred from Canada is like being told to stay away from the family home.\"This is not something I'm prepared to accept.\"Galloway is due to speak at a public forum entitled Resisting War from Gaza to Kandahar, hosted by the Toronto Coalition to Stop the War later this month.He is also due to speak at a second public forum in Mississauga, west of Toronto, on 31 March.His proposed visit prompted the Jewish Defence League of Canada to write an open letter to the country's government urging it to do \"everything possible to keep this hater away\".In 2006, Galloway was refused entry to Egypt on the grounds of national security after he travelled to the country to give evidence at a \"mock trial\" of Tony Blair and George Bush.He was held overnight in a police cell before the authorities changed their minds and allowed him into the country.", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "George Galloway banned from Canada"},{"date": "2009-02-20T15:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Obama made his first foreign visit this week, a trip to Canada, and Canada is pleased. Back in 2001, George Bush violated half a century of tradition when he chose Mexico as his first state visit, and now the hope, on all sides, is that we can go back to the way things used to be. Unfortunately, that seems impossible. The legacy of the Bush years has left a deep distrust that can't be erased even with the new president's immense charisma. We love Obama here \u2013 who doesn't \u2013 the question is, can we believe what he says?The previous American presidency was disastrous for US-Canada relations. A series of trade disputes, focused principally on softwood lumber, caused intense resentment north of the border. Obama seems to have quashed the nascent protectionism of the \"buy US\" provisions in the stimulus package, which would have been disastrous for Canada, but he had to admit in an interview with the CBC that the governments of states and cities operate their own budgets. We are not necessarily the good guys in these negotiations: his commitment to environmentalism could lead to a rejection of oil from the Alberta tar sands, which is among the dirtiest forms of energy in the world and a major export. Border issues are also a sticking point. Thousands of Canadians commute across the border, and the response to 9/11 and the Mexican drug war has affected us profoundly. It used to be that you could cross the border with a driver's licence and a smile. Now they want your fingerprints. Then there's Afghanistan. Obama wants us to stay beyond 2011. The majority of Canadians are losing stomach for a war that is evidently unwinnable and accompanied by a rising death toll.All these ultimately minor and resolvable issues hide a deeper problem. The American government over the past eight years has been utterly capricious about keeping international agreements. For us, it was the North America Free Trade Agreement; for others, it was the nuclear non-proliferation treaty; for the world at large, it was the Geneva conventions. The problem is one of primitive schoolboy honour. Obama may be straight, but what about the next guy? What if there's another terrorist attack? Does that automatically mean that America's agreements no longer apply?Canada has always had the best seat for the American drama. We are Horatio to their Hamlet. Canadian anti-Americanism, though prevalent, is tempered with affection, even brotherliness. Mostly it takes the form of exasperation: \"Why do you have to be so crazy?\" (There is also a healthy dose of envy for their madness \u2013 the lows are so much lower there, but the highs are so much higher.) Canadians know the failings of Americans better than others, and are also more aware of Americans' brilliance and huge generosity of spirit. So no one was more relieved at America's return to sense and decency with Obama than Canadians. The Bush years revealed that visits like Obama's just don't matter in the end. America is going to do what it wants, and not just with geopolitical irrelevancies like Canada. When Tony Blair believed that he could influence America by joining the Iraq war effort, Canadians knew that this idea was strictly for suckers, a product of the deluded vanity of ex-empire. America operates a booty call diplomacy; they call when they need you and you never cross their mind when they don't. Hillary Clinton recently told David Miliband that the relationship between the US and Britain was \"certainly special in my eyes,\" and you could almost see \"they like us, they really like us,\" in his puppy dog gaze. Take it from Canada, Miliband, don't expect a call the morning after. America's political narcissism is such that they forget instantly when you do what they want, and they forget if you don't do what they want. Canada's decision to go to Afghanistan has had no positive repercussions. Our decision to stay out of Iraq has had no negative consequences. They simply don't notice one way or the other. Despite this, President Obama is more popular in Canada than any Canadian politician. The Irish can sing \"there's no one more Irish than Barack O'Bama\" but the Canadian elements of his personality are more immediately apparent. He admires Swedish banking, he believes in universal healthcare and, like most of Toronto, now the most multicultural city in the world, he comes from a peripatetic, racially diverse family. He's practically one of us. Unfortunately, he's president of them.", "tags": ["Canada", "Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "US economy", "World news", "US news", "Environment", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "Stephen Marche: Canada: Horatio to Obama's Hamlet"},{"date": "2009-03-12T16:13:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A helicopter carrying 18 people ditched in the Atlantic ocean off the Canadian coast today.The helicopter was heading to the Hibernia offshore oil platform when it went down off Newfoundland.One person was taken out of the water and ferried to hospital in an ambulance. At least one other person was spotted in the \u00adwater, as well as a life-raft, but there is no sign of the helicopter, said Jeri Grychowski of the rescue co-ordination centre in Halifax.The S-92 Sikorsky helicopter went down 55 miles south-east of the provincial capital of St. John's, where it had picked up oil platform workers. The first call for help was placed to air traffic control just before 8am (1pm GMT). \"Mechanical problems were reported, but we don't know the nature,\" Julie Leroux, a spokeswoman for the Transportation Safety Board of Canada, said.A Hercules aircraft and four Cormorant rescue helicopters were on their way to the site, and a coastguard ship and a supply ship were about an hour away.Grychowski said winds were fairly strong in the area, the water temperature was just above freezing and there were waves two to three metres high.Dave Bowen, also of the rescue co-ordination centre, said a mayday call was issued.\"We don't have any further information on the raft itself,\" he told the Canadian Broadcasting Corp.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Helicopter crashes into Atlantic off Canada"},{"date": "2009-02-17T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Last month, the Toronto Star ran a \"survival guide\" for Barack Obama in advance of his upcoming visit to Canada on Thursday. It warned him of the Canadian \"proclivity for substance over style,\" and that, thanks to Pierre Trudeau, \"we're cool with cool, but we've already been there.\" In other words, thanks for coming, but we're totally over it already.The problem is that the opposite is true. We couldn't be happier that Barack Obama is not only choosing Canada for his first official visit, but that he knows we even exist at all. Since he does, he might also know that, generally speaking, we love him. What he probably doesn't know is why. All he would have to do to find out would be to watch the Simpsons.Almost everything anyone ever wanted to know about the Canadian identity is captured in episode 5F11 of the Simpsons. In the midst of a fracas that erupts between the delegates of the Springfield Elementary model UN, Ralph Wiggum, representing Canada and dressed as a Mountie, dutifully stands to attention and above the din begins to sing \"O! Canada\". It is difficult to find a more accurate depiction of the international Canadian persona.Ralph-as-Canada is many things all at once. He is the view looking north from the United States at the peaceful, cute, idiotic little neighbour, boasting proudly of nothing at all. He is also the mythical \"Canadian\" \u2013 the humble, internationalist, inclusive, sensible law-abider \u2013 that Canadians have convinced ourselves that we are. However, the most important persona is missing: that of the anti-American Canadian, which is now a bit of a problem. In Barack Obama, Canadians see those qualities that we love most, but our reasoning for this is flawed. Obama breaks stereotypes that we hold for our neighbours, and instead represents stereotypes that we have of ourselves. We like him because we feel he's as good as we are. This means that we like him because he is better than his countrymen. Nothing could be more self-righteous.Frustratingly, this attitude is often built on a misguided understanding of both American culture and our own. When Barack Obama spoke in Baltimore the Saturday prior to his inauguration, he described the survival of the American spirit after the White House was burned to the ground in 1814. Many here will tell you that Canadians set that fire. We didn't, the British did. This is the same assumption-driven thinking that allows us to feel that the American way of life is generally the wrong one, and ignore how much the Canadian alternative shares with it. Many Canadians can boast an extensive knowledge of the United States, and can explain their history or government. That's all fine and good. The problem comes when we're asked to explain ourselves, and the answers are often much shorter.Recently, the National Post asked: \"Can Obama end our anti-Americanism?\" Could this love we have for him finally destroy our dislike of Americans? The answer is: no. When Canada patriated its constitution, there was a feeling that finally the country had released itself from Mother Britain. The job then became one of self-definition. Unfortunately, the problem is that we never really got around to it, opting instead to continue to define our regional differences: West versus East, French versus English, Ontario versus everyone else, etc. We pretend that this is a national identity, but it's more of the same \u2013 a definition in the negative.In fact, our anti-Americanism is one of the only common threads of Canadian identity that runs, unbroken, from Confederation to the very second that I'm writing these words. Most other traits - the peacekeeping, the cultural mosaic, and so on - have developed along the way. The only other aspect to share this streak is bilingualism. Needless to say, it does not unite Canadians with quite the same degree of success.All along, our truest defining characteristic has sat at North America's waistline. The 49th parallel is a stronger Canadian symbol than anything else. It is the line between being something and being not-something. If our anti-Americanism did end, it would not be because of Barack Obama. Instead, its end would only come from it being replaced internally by something else. If that does not occur, then we have to face the scary fact that Canada is only Canada because it is not America.", "tags": ["Barack Obama", "Canada", "US foreign policy", "Obama administration", "World news", "US news", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "Colin Horgan: Without America to despise, what's left for Canadians to rally around?"},{"date": "2009-03-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A furious George Galloway last night vowed to fight a ban on him entering Canada on the grounds of national security.The MP for Bethnal Green and Bow had been due to speak at a number of events in the country but his anti-war stance was drawn to the attention of the government by a Jewish group. He will challenge the decision in court.A Canadian government spokesman said that the decision would not be overturned for a man regarded as an \"infandous street-corner Cromwell\". The description of the Respect MP may have led him to his dictionary the definition of infandous is \"too odious to be expressed or mentioned\". Galloway said the comparison to Cromwell was not so offensive as he was \"the champion of parliamentary supremacy and the executor of supporters of autocratic and arbitrary power\".Galloway has been deemed \"inadmissible\" to Canada under section 34(1) of the country's immigration act.Alykhan Velshi, a spokesman for the immigration minister, said the act was designed to protect Canadians from people who fund, support or engage in terrorism. \"We're going to uphold the law, [and] not give special treatment to this infandous street-corner Cromwell who actually brags about giving 'financial support' to Hamas, a terrorist organisation banned in Canada,\" said Velshi. Galloway said he was dismayed both as an elected parliamentarian and as a Scotsman. \"Canada was built by Scotsmen, it is like being turned away from the family home. \"I will be seeking a judicial review and take this matter to court. One way or another I will be heard by the people who want to hear me.\"\u2022 This article was amended on Saturday 21 March 2009. In the article above we misquoted George Galloway: 'parliamentary' should have been 'arbitrary'. This has been amended.", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "Canada bars 'infandous' Galloway"},{"date": "2009-03-21T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian immigration minister Jason Kenney gazetted in the Sun yesterday morning that I was to be excluded from his country because of my views on Afghanistan. That's the way the rightwing, last-ditch dead-enders of Bushism in Ottawa conduct their business.Kenney is quite a card. A quick trawl establishes he's a gay-baiter, gung-ho armchair warrior, with an odd habit of exceeding his immigration brief. Three years ago he attacked the pro-western Lebanese prime minister, Fuad Siniora, for being ungrateful to Canada for its support of Israeli bombardment of his country. Most curiously of all, in 2006 he addressed a rally of the so-called People's Mujahideen of Iran, a Waco-style cult, banned in the European Union as a terrorist organisation. On one level being banned by such a man is like being told to sit up straight by the hunchback of Notre Dame or being lectured on due diligence by Conrad Black. On another, for a Scotsman to be excluded from Canada is like being turned away from the family home.But what are my views on Afghanistan which the Canadian government does not want its people to hear? I've never been to Afghanistan, nor have I ever met a Taliban, but my first impression into the parliamentary vellum on the subject was more than two decades ago. At the time the fathers of the Taliban were \"freedom fighters\", paraded at US Republican and British Tory conferences. Who knows, maybe even the Canadian right extolled these god-fearing opponents of communism. I did not, however. On the eve of their storming of Kabul I told Margaret Thatcher that she \"had opened the gates to the barbarians\" and that \"a long, dark night would now descend upon the people of Afghanistan\". With the same conviction, I say to the Canadian and other Nato governments today that your policy is equally a profound mistake. From time to time and with increased regularity it is a crime. Like the bombardment of wedding parties and even funerals or the presiding over a record opium crop, which under our noses finds its way coursing through the veins of young people from Nova Scotia to Newcastle upon Tyne. But it is worse than a crime, as Tallyrand said, it's a blunder. The Afghans have never succumbed to foreign occupation, heaven knows the British empire tried, tried and failed again. Not even Alexander the Great succeeded, and whoever else he is, minister Kenney is no Alexander the Great. Young Canadian soldiers are dying in significant numbers on Afghanistan's plains. Their families are entitled to know how many of us believe this adventure to be similarly doomed and that genuine support for troops - British, Canadian and other - means bringing them home and changing course. To ban a five-times elected British MP from addressing public events or keeping appointments with television and radio programmes is a serious matter. Kenney's \"spokesman\" told the Sun, \"Galloway's not coming in ... end of story.\" Alas for him, it's not. Canada remains a free country governed by law and my friends are even now seeking a judicial review. And there are other ways I can address those Canadians who wish to hear me. More than half a century ago Paul Robeson, one of the greatest men who ever lived, was forbidden to enter Canada not by Ottawa but by Washington, which had taken away his passport. But he was still able to transfix a vast crowd of Vancouver's mill hands and miners with a 17-minute telephone concert, culminating in a rendition of the Ballad of Joe Hill. Technology has moved on since then. And so from coast to coast, minister Kenney notwithstanding, I will be heard - one way or another.\u2022 George Galloway is Respect MP for Bethnal Green and Bow gallowayg@parliament.uk", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "World news", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "George Galloway: Canada can't muzzle me"},{"date": "2009-03-20T15:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Anti-war MP George Galloway has been banned from Canada, it emerged today.A Canadian spokesman confirmed that the Respect MP had been deemed inadmissible on national security grounds and would not be allowed into the country.Galloway today branded the ban \"idiotic\" and vowed to fight the ruling with \"all means\" at his disposal. He is due to give a speech in Toronto on 30 March.Earlier today the Sun said border security officials had declared Galloway, 54, \"inadmissible\" because of his views on Afghanistan and the presence of Canadian troops there and would be turned away if he attempted to enter the country.A spokesman for Citizenship and Immigration Canada said the decision had been taken by border security officials \"based on a number of factors\" in accordance with section 34(1) of the country's immigration act.The act states:\"A permanent resident or a foreign national is inadmissible on security grounds for:(a) engaging in an act of espionage or an act of subversion against a democratic government, institution or process as they are understood in Canada;(b) engaging in or instigating the subversion by force of any government;(c) engaging in terrorism;(d) being a danger to the security of Canada;(e) engaging in acts of violence that would or might endanger the lives or safety of persons in Canada; or(f) being a member of an organisation that there are reasonable grounds to believe engages, has engaged or will engage in acts referred to in paragraph (a), (b) or (c).\"Galloway, MP for Bethnal Green and Bow, is consulting the organisers of his north American speaking tour and exploring whether legal action can be taken to overturn the ban.Jason Kenney, Canada's immigration minister, has the right to exempt people from the act if it is felt that their presence would not be \"detrimental to the national interest\".But a spokesman said Kenney would \"decline to exercise that discretion\" in Galloway's case.Alykhan Velshi, Kenney's spokesman, said that the act was designed to protect Canadians from people who fund, support or engage in terrorism.\"We're going to uphold the law, not give special treatment to this infandous street-corner Cromwell who actually brags about giving 'financial support' to Hamas, a terrorist organisation banned in Canada,\" he said. \"I'm sure Galloway has a large Rolodex of friends in regimes elsewhere in the world willing to roll out the red carpet for him. Canada, however, won't be one of them.\"Responding to the news, Galloway issued a statement headed: \"This idiotic ban shames Canada.\"The MP said: \"This decision, gazetted in Rupert Murdoch's Sun, is a very sad day for the Canada we have known and loved \u2013 a bastion of the freedoms that supporters of the occupation of Afghanistan claim to be defending.\"This has further vindicated the anti-war movement's contention that unjust wars abroad will end up consuming the very liberties that make us who we are.\"This may be a rather desperate election ploy by a conservative government reaching the end of line, or by a minister who has not cottoned on to the fact that the George Bush era is over.\"All right-thinking Canadians, whether they agree with me over the wisdom of sending troops to Afghanistan or not, will oppose this outrageous decision.\"On a personal note \u2013 for a Scotsman to be barred from Canada is like being told to stay away from the family home.\"This is not something I'm prepared to accept.\"Galloway is due to speak at a public forum entitled Resisting War from Gaza to Kandahar, hosted by the Toronto Coalition to Stop the War later this month.He is also due to speak at a second public forum in Mississauga, west of Toronto, on 31 March.His proposed visit prompted the Jewish Defence League of Canada to write an open letter to the country's government urging it to do \"everything possible to keep this hater away\".In 2006, Galloway was refused entry to Egypt on the grounds of national security after he travelled to the country to give evidence at a \"mock trial\" of Tony Blair and George Bush.He was held overnight in a police cell before the authorities changed their minds and allowed him into the country.", "tags": ["George Galloway", "Canada", "Politics", "UK news", "World news", "Foreign policy", "Respect party", "Americas"], "title": "George Galloway banned from Canada"},{"date": "2009-02-20T15:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Obama made his first foreign visit this week, a trip to Canada, and Canada is pleased. Back in 2001, George Bush violated half a century of tradition when he chose Mexico as his first state visit, and now the hope, on all sides, is that we can go back to the way things used to be. Unfortunately, that seems impossible. The legacy of the Bush years has left a deep distrust that can't be erased even with the new president's immense charisma. We love Obama here \u2013 who doesn't \u2013 the question is, can we believe what he says?The previous American presidency was disastrous for US-Canada relations. A series of trade disputes, focused principally on softwood lumber, caused intense resentment north of the border. Obama seems to have quashed the nascent protectionism of the \"buy US\" provisions in the stimulus package, which would have been disastrous for Canada, but he had to admit in an interview with the CBC that the governments of states and cities operate their own budgets. We are not necessarily the good guys in these negotiations: his commitment to environmentalism could lead to a rejection of oil from the Alberta tar sands, which is among the dirtiest forms of energy in the world and a major export. Border issues are also a sticking point. Thousands of Canadians commute across the border, and the response to 9/11 and the Mexican drug war has affected us profoundly. It used to be that you could cross the border with a driver's licence and a smile. Now they want your fingerprints. Then there's Afghanistan. Obama wants us to stay beyond 2011. The majority of Canadians are losing stomach for a war that is evidently unwinnable and accompanied by a rising death toll.All these ultimately minor and resolvable issues hide a deeper problem. The American government over the past eight years has been utterly capricious about keeping international agreements. For us, it was the North America Free Trade Agreement; for others, it was the nuclear non-proliferation treaty; for the world at large, it was the Geneva conventions. The problem is one of primitive schoolboy honour. Obama may be straight, but what about the next guy? What if there's another terrorist attack? Does that automatically mean that America's agreements no longer apply?Canada has always had the best seat for the American drama. We are Horatio to their Hamlet. Canadian anti-Americanism, though prevalent, is tempered with affection, even brotherliness. Mostly it takes the form of exasperation: \"Why do you have to be so crazy?\" (There is also a healthy dose of envy for their madness \u2013 the lows are so much lower there, but the highs are so much higher.) Canadians know the failings of Americans better than others, and are also more aware of Americans' brilliance and huge generosity of spirit. So no one was more relieved at America's return to sense and decency with Obama than Canadians. The Bush years revealed that visits like Obama's just don't matter in the end. America is going to do what it wants, and not just with geopolitical irrelevancies like Canada. When Tony Blair believed that he could influence America by joining the Iraq war effort, Canadians knew that this idea was strictly for suckers, a product of the deluded vanity of ex-empire. America operates a booty call diplomacy; they call when they need you and you never cross their mind when they don't. Hillary Clinton recently told David Miliband that the relationship between the US and Britain was \"certainly special in my eyes,\" and you could almost see \"they like us, they really like us,\" in his puppy dog gaze. Take it from Canada, Miliband, don't expect a call the morning after. America's political narcissism is such that they forget instantly when you do what they want, and they forget if you don't do what they want. Canada's decision to go to Afghanistan has had no positive repercussions. Our decision to stay out of Iraq has had no negative consequences. They simply don't notice one way or the other. Despite this, President Obama is more popular in Canada than any Canadian politician. The Irish can sing \"there's no one more Irish than Barack O'Bama\" but the Canadian elements of his personality are more immediately apparent. He admires Swedish banking, he believes in universal healthcare and, like most of Toronto, now the most multicultural city in the world, he comes from a peripatetic, racially diverse family. He's practically one of us. Unfortunately, he's president of them.", "tags": ["Canada", "Obama administration", "US foreign policy", "US economy", "World news", "US news", "Environment", "US politics", "Americas"], "title": "Stephen Marche: Canada: Horatio to Obama's Hamlet"},{"date": "2009-03-12T16:13:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A helicopter carrying 18 people ditched in the Atlantic ocean off the Canadian coast today.The helicopter was heading to the Hibernia offshore oil platform when it went down off Newfoundland.One person was taken out of the water and ferried to hospital in an ambulance. At least one other person was spotted in the \u00adwater, as well as a life-raft, but there is no sign of the helicopter, said Jeri Grychowski of the rescue co-ordination centre in Halifax.The S-92 Sikorsky helicopter went down 55 miles south-east of the provincial capital of St. John's, where it had picked up oil platform workers. The first call for help was placed to air traffic control just before 8am (1pm GMT). \"Mechanical problems were reported, but we don't know the nature,\" Julie Leroux, a spokeswoman for the Transportation Safety Board of Canada, said.A Hercules aircraft and four Cormorant rescue helicopters were on their way to the site, and a coastguard ship and a supply ship were about an hour away.Grychowski said winds were fairly strong in the area, the water temperature was just above freezing and there were waves two to three metres high.Dave Bowen, also of the rescue co-ordination centre, said a mayday call was issued.\"We don't have any further information on the raft itself,\" he told the Canadian Broadcasting Corp.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Helicopter crashes into Atlantic off Canada"},{"date": "2009-01-25T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada geese will need to be culled in their thousands because they pose an increasing risk to aircraft, a leading government adviser has revealed. Dr John Allan, an expert in bird management, warned that the birds were large enough to \"bring a plane down\" if sucked into an engine. He said that in Britain the numbers of the species had now reached 120,000.Allan, head of the bird management team at the Central Science Laboratory, a government agency, said intensive culling was necessary to ensure passenger safety. His words follow last week's life-saving crash landing of a US Airways jet in the icy waters of New York's Hudson river. Both engines failed after it flew through a flock of Canada geese, according to the crew.\"This particular species can cause a problem because of their size. If they are sucked into an engine, they can bring a plane down,\" said Allan. \"Their numbers have greatly increased across Britain, and so they will have to be culled, moved or restricted. \"While a small bird which is sucked into an aircraft's engine will not cause a problem, these geese are large enough to bring the engines to a halt. This is of great concern.\"Allan said that Britain's airport authorities were already spending millions of pounds ensuring that flocks of birds, and Canada geese in particular, were kept away from airports and flight paths. Collisions between aircraft and birds cost the world civil aviation industry around \u00a31.2bn a year and have resulted in the loss of 88 aircraft and 243 lives.Canada geese, or Branta canadensis, easily recognised by their distinctive black head and neck and white chin-strap, are widespread in Britain. As their name suggests, they originated in the Canadian tundra and many winter in the southern swamplands of the United States. Some scientists claim that they are now choosing to winter in Europe because of global warming. In Britain, their numbers are increasing by nearly 8% a year. They tend to fly in groups of 10 or 12 and so could overwhelm even a large engine designed to withstand a bird strike. Heathrow has a particular problem because around 10,000 of the birds roost in lakes and quarries south of the airport and feed to its north, making them likely to fly across the runways.Measures were introduced to control the population in 1998 after a flock collided with a Boeing 767 coming in to land, causing damage to the nose, wing and left engine. Radar is now used to detect any within a six-mile radius. Efforts are then made to scare, move or kill the birds. Canada geese are one of 13 species of birds - including gulls, crows and pigeons - which can be legally culled in Britain. Many are shot. Another method of controlling their numbers is to locate their eggs and either prick them with a pin or cover them in oil. The Royal Society for the Protection of Birds said that Canada geese posed no threat to native British birds, but recognised that they could pose a danger to air traffic. It backs the Wildlife and Countryside Act regulation that all humane methods of population control should be tried before culling is adopted.The Canada Geese Conservation Society, based in Walthamstow, north-east London opposes a cull because the birds mate for life and can pine to death if a partner is killed.The number of Canada geese in Britain is expected to rise to more than 200,000 by 2010, according to the British Trust for Ornithology, which monitors bird populations. That compares with just 3,600 in 1953.Experts believe that the rapid increase began in the 1970s and 1980s after the birds were deemed to be gathering in excessive numbers in parks and lakes and were moved on.Dr Graham Austin, the trust's senior research ecologist, said: \"Councils and park keepers were unwittingly helping to spread their numbers. As a result, they are everywhere and can be quite a nuisance.\"", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Airline industry", "Environment", "UK news"], "title": "Call for airport cull of Canada geese"},{"date": "2009-06-23T09:15:11Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I have just emigrated from the UK to Canada \u2013 a country where banking is not free. This is something British banks have threatened will become the norm should this week's appeal on the legality of overdraft charges go against them.I've found that you get charged for a legion of things here that you don't in the UK. The bank I'm with, CIBC, is typical. For my \"chequeing\" or current account I am charged $3.90 (\u00a32) a month, plus 60\u00a2 (32p) for each transaction above a maximum of 10 a month. Unhappy? It also costs $19.50 (\u00a310.34) to move your account to another bank, or $12.50 (\u00a36.68) to close it if it was opened fewer than 90 days ago. Credit interest is also minimal (though these days, that is expected).But don't these just replace the charges UK banks levy for going into the red? Well, those are present here too \u2013 $42.50 (\u00a322.70) for a bounced cheque and overdraft interest is 21%. A monthly overdraft service fee is only $5 (\u00a32.67), which is not so bad. But I opened my account a couple of days before the end of the month, was charged a few cents of the monthly fee pro-rata before I deposited anything, and suddenly I was the proud owner of a minus sign. Five bucks, please. Gah!Fees are not popular here and people try hard to dodge them. Banks advertise on the basis of rewards and waiving some of their other fees. For example, RBC promises \"three free uses\" of a non-RBC ATM a month \u2013 because you usually get charged whenever you make a withdrawal from a cash machine that isn't your bank's. Unlike in the UK this particular salami-slicing is not a hot consumer issue.So why are fees tolerated? I think the answer is that people get service and local relationships in return. I was introduced to the staff at my local branch by my (Canadian) wife who knows them by name. Instead of a phone on a table connected to customer services there are real, live people. I have a bank manager as well as her business card and direct line. And I had to scrape my chin off the floor when she called me after learning I was British and said she would answer any questions I had about bank fees. Here a bank is a different concept \u2013 it is a group of local professionals you get to know personally who look after your money and advise you.So I do pay to bank, but I get service in return. If British banks were to charge fees just for keeping an account, what would you expect to receive?", "tags": ["Banks and building societies", "Bank charges", "Money"], "title": "Bank charges are normal in Canada"},{"date": "2009-06-23T09:15:11Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I have just emigrated from the UK to Canada \u2013 a country where banking is not free. This is something British banks have threatened will become the norm should this week's appeal on the legality of overdraft charges go against them.I've found that you get charged for a legion of things here that you don't in the UK. The bank I'm with, CIBC, is typical. For my \"chequeing\" or current account I am charged $3.90 (\u00a32) a month, plus 60\u00a2 (32p) for each transaction above a maximum of 10 a month. Unhappy? It also costs $19.50 (\u00a310.34) to move your account to another bank, or $12.50 (\u00a36.68) to close it if it was opened fewer than 90 days ago. Credit interest is also minimal (though these days, that is expected).But don't these just replace the charges UK banks levy for going into the red? Well, those are present here too \u2013 $42.50 (\u00a322.70) for a bounced cheque and overdraft interest is 21%. A monthly overdraft service fee is only $5 (\u00a32.67), which is not so bad. But I opened my account a couple of days before the end of the month, was charged a few cents of the monthly fee pro-rata before I deposited anything, and suddenly I was the proud owner of a minus sign. Five bucks, please. Gah!Fees are not popular here and people try hard to dodge them. Banks advertise on the basis of rewards and waiving some of their other fees. For example, RBC promises \"three free uses\" of a non-RBC ATM a month \u2013 because you usually get charged whenever you make a withdrawal from a cash machine that isn't your bank's. Unlike in the UK this particular salami-slicing is not a hot consumer issue.So why are fees tolerated? I think the answer is that people get service and local relationships in return. I was introduced to the staff at my local branch by my (Canadian) wife who knows them by name. Instead of a phone on a table connected to customer services there are real, live people. I have a bank manager as well as her business card and direct line. And I had to scrape my chin off the floor when she called me after learning I was British and said she would answer any questions I had about bank fees. Here a bank is a different concept \u2013 it is a group of local professionals you get to know personally who look after your money and advise you.So I do pay to bank, but I get service in return. If British banks were to charge fees just for keeping an account, what would you expect to receive?", "tags": ["Banks and building societies", "Bank charges", "Money"], "title": "Bank charges are normal in Canada"},{"date": "2009-04-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 1 May 2009A further error has come to light in the story below about the use of seaside imagery from Northumberland in a promotional film about landlocked Alberta. The story quoted Tom Olsen, identified as \"head of media relations for Canada's prime minister Stephen Harper\", defending use of the foreign beach image. This led the writer to deduce, and write, that the national government was delighted with the film clip. Federal officials were not involved in the promotion, and Tom Olsen is spokesman for the premier of Alberta, Ed Stelmach. The sea was blue, the beach was gold and the children skipping through the sand dunes seemed a testament to the healthy joys of holidays in the Canadian province of Alberta. Tourist officials and the national government in Ottawa were delighted with the promotional clip, part of a \u00a314m attempt to offset controversy over oil extraction in Alberta's beautiful wildlands. But hours of sleuthing by a puzzled sailing enthusiast, aware that Alberta has no coastline, have revealed that the idyll was filmed 5,000 miles away across the Atlantic. The girl with the flying hair and her friend were romping on the sweep of sand at Beadnell Bay near Bamburgh, Northumberland, where the North Sea rolls in from Lindisfarne. \"We think it's quite funny - a landlocked province in Canada presenting an image of itself as an island,\" said Sheelagh Caygill of Northumberland Tourism, which is now fondly hoping to piggy-back on the international campaign. News of the gaffe is spreading like wildfire on the internet with tags such as: \"Come to Alberta - no, wait, it's Britain.\"The curious choice of a seaside beach for a place which has none, was spotted by Peter Bailey, a Canadian looking for places to take his dinghy. He initially thought that the scene might be set on one of Alberta's many lakes, whose sandy shores and unpolluted water are important to the tourism drive. Oil extraction is concentrated in Alberta's Oil Sands region, which include landscapes vaguely similar to Northumberland's unspoilt coast. But Bailey tracked down the real setting - halfway between the drama of Bamburgh castle and the kipper-smoking village of Craster - after a marathon email session with the Canadian government, tourist authorities and their PR advisers.Ottawa has responded by suggesting that the choice of Northumberland symbolised the fact that \"Albertans are a worldly people\". Tom Olsen, head of media relations for Canada's prime minister Stephen Harper, said: \"There's no attempt to mislead here. The picture used just fitted the mood and tone of what we were trying to do.\" His take that the British children were \"a symbol of the future\" was echoed by Olga Guthrie of Alberta's public affairs bureau, who is managing the campaign. She said: \"This represents Albertans' concern for the future of the world. There's no attempt to make people think that the place pictured is Alberta.\" The PR agency Calder Bateman which devised the rebranding campaign in Edmonton, Alberta's capital which stands roughly 500 miles from the Pacific and 2,000 miles from the Atlantic, said that it could not comment \"because of the terms of the government's contract.\" Back in Northumberland, Caygill said that local people were \"actually quite thrilled\" that one of their prime beauty spots was being publicised free to so many people worldwide. Legendary links between Bamburgh castle, Lancelot and Guinevere and Tristan and Isolde have been used to plug the area as perfect for romantic getaways. \"We're delighted with any new way of promoting the beauty of the north of England, which is often neglected,\" Caygill said. \"I hope that when people in Alberta realise where the beach is, they'll want to come and visit.\" Beadnell was quiet yesterday, but one pre-season visitor Ian Hooper from Edinburgh sang its praises. The 52-year-old doctor said: \"I'm originally from Newcastle and I love it here. I used to play in the sand dunes as a child, and now I've five children of my own and they love to play in the dunes too, and do watersports here.\"The affair follows other recent outbreaks of international poaching, including the lifting of a scene from the sun-kissed Bahamas in February this year, to stand in for the Costa Brava in Spain.More cosily, Rochdale Development Corporation was caught out using photographs of street cafes in the centre of Manchester two years ago to back its slogan that Rochdale was \"a happening place\".Alberta is the size of France, Holland and Belgium but has no coast, though plenty of everything else, from deserts to icefields. Temperatures range from 40C (104F) in summer to -54C (-70C) in winter. The population of 3 million thrives on petrochemicals, exporting the world's second largest amount of natural gas. Tourist attractions include Lake Louise and the Alberta Prairies Steam Railway. The province's official bird is the great horned owlBeadnell has a population of 528, two holiday caravan sites and a beach stretching for 1.8 miles. It hosts the largest colony of Arctic terns on mainland Britain. It has a fortified pele tower and a record of famous swimmers, including the poet Swinburne and the novelist EM Forster. Fishing continues from a port which is the only west-facing one on England's east coast. Local specialities include Craster kippers and Lindisfarne mead.\u2022 This article was amended on Tuesday 28 April 2009. Errors of distance appeared in the story above about how seaside imagery from Northumberland was used in a promotional film about landlocked Alberta. We should have sited Edmonton about 2,000 miles from the Atlantic, not 600 miles, and about 500 miles from the Pacific, not 400 miles. The story called Alberta a province, but the headline wrongly called it a state. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["Canada", "Advertising", "Media", "Oil", "Business", "World news", "UK news", "Canada holidays", "Travel", "Americas"], "title": "Canada tourist video shot in Northumbria"},{"date": "2009-06-23T09:15:11Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I have just emigrated from the UK to Canada \u2013 a country where banking is not free. This is something British banks have threatened will become the norm should this week's appeal on the legality of overdraft charges go against them.I've found that you get charged for a legion of things here that you don't in the UK. The bank I'm with, CIBC, is typical. For my \"chequeing\" or current account I am charged $3.90 (\u00a32) a month, plus 60\u00a2 (32p) for each transaction above a maximum of 10 a month. Unhappy? It also costs $19.50 (\u00a310.34) to move your account to another bank, or $12.50 (\u00a36.68) to close it if it was opened fewer than 90 days ago. Credit interest is also minimal (though these days, that is expected).But don't these just replace the charges UK banks levy for going into the red? Well, those are present here too \u2013 $42.50 (\u00a322.70) for a bounced cheque and overdraft interest is 21%. A monthly overdraft service fee is only $5 (\u00a32.67), which is not so bad. But I opened my account a couple of days before the end of the month, was charged a few cents of the monthly fee pro-rata before I deposited anything, and suddenly I was the proud owner of a minus sign. Five bucks, please. Gah!Fees are not popular here and people try hard to dodge them. Banks advertise on the basis of rewards and waiving some of their other fees. For example, RBC promises \"three free uses\" of a non-RBC ATM a month \u2013 because you usually get charged whenever you make a withdrawal from a cash machine that isn't your bank's. Unlike in the UK this particular salami-slicing is not a hot consumer issue.So why are fees tolerated? I think the answer is that people get service and local relationships in return. I was introduced to the staff at my local branch by my (Canadian) wife who knows them by name. Instead of a phone on a table connected to customer services there are real, live people. I have a bank manager as well as her business card and direct line. And I had to scrape my chin off the floor when she called me after learning I was British and said she would answer any questions I had about bank fees. Here a bank is a different concept \u2013 it is a group of local professionals you get to know personally who look after your money and advise you.So I do pay to bank, but I get service in return. If British banks were to charge fees just for keeping an account, what would you expect to receive?", "tags": ["Banks and building societies", "Bank charges", "Money"], "title": "Bank charges are normal in Canada"},{"date": "2009-04-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 1 May 2009A further error has come to light in the story below about the use of seaside imagery from Northumberland in a promotional film about landlocked Alberta. The story quoted Tom Olsen, identified as \"head of media relations for Canada's prime minister Stephen Harper\", defending use of the foreign beach image. This led the writer to deduce, and write, that the national government was delighted with the film clip. Federal officials were not involved in the promotion, and Tom Olsen is spokesman for the premier of Alberta, Ed Stelmach. The sea was blue, the beach was gold and the children skipping through the sand dunes seemed a testament to the healthy joys of holidays in the Canadian province of Alberta. Tourist officials and the national government in Ottawa were delighted with the promotional clip, part of a \u00a314m attempt to offset controversy over oil extraction in Alberta's beautiful wildlands. But hours of sleuthing by a puzzled sailing enthusiast, aware that Alberta has no coastline, have revealed that the idyll was filmed 5,000 miles away across the Atlantic. The girl with the flying hair and her friend were romping on the sweep of sand at Beadnell Bay near Bamburgh, Northumberland, where the North Sea rolls in from Lindisfarne. \"We think it's quite funny - a landlocked province in Canada presenting an image of itself as an island,\" said Sheelagh Caygill of Northumberland Tourism, which is now fondly hoping to piggy-back on the international campaign. News of the gaffe is spreading like wildfire on the internet with tags such as: \"Come to Alberta - no, wait, it's Britain.\"The curious choice of a seaside beach for a place which has none, was spotted by Peter Bailey, a Canadian looking for places to take his dinghy. He initially thought that the scene might be set on one of Alberta's many lakes, whose sandy shores and unpolluted water are important to the tourism drive. Oil extraction is concentrated in Alberta's Oil Sands region, which include landscapes vaguely similar to Northumberland's unspoilt coast. But Bailey tracked down the real setting - halfway between the drama of Bamburgh castle and the kipper-smoking village of Craster - after a marathon email session with the Canadian government, tourist authorities and their PR advisers.Ottawa has responded by suggesting that the choice of Northumberland symbolised the fact that \"Albertans are a worldly people\". Tom Olsen, head of media relations for Canada's prime minister Stephen Harper, said: \"There's no attempt to mislead here. The picture used just fitted the mood and tone of what we were trying to do.\" His take that the British children were \"a symbol of the future\" was echoed by Olga Guthrie of Alberta's public affairs bureau, who is managing the campaign. She said: \"This represents Albertans' concern for the future of the world. There's no attempt to make people think that the place pictured is Alberta.\" The PR agency Calder Bateman which devised the rebranding campaign in Edmonton, Alberta's capital which stands roughly 500 miles from the Pacific and 2,000 miles from the Atlantic, said that it could not comment \"because of the terms of the government's contract.\" Back in Northumberland, Caygill said that local people were \"actually quite thrilled\" that one of their prime beauty spots was being publicised free to so many people worldwide. Legendary links between Bamburgh castle, Lancelot and Guinevere and Tristan and Isolde have been used to plug the area as perfect for romantic getaways. \"We're delighted with any new way of promoting the beauty of the north of England, which is often neglected,\" Caygill said. \"I hope that when people in Alberta realise where the beach is, they'll want to come and visit.\" Beadnell was quiet yesterday, but one pre-season visitor Ian Hooper from Edinburgh sang its praises. The 52-year-old doctor said: \"I'm originally from Newcastle and I love it here. I used to play in the sand dunes as a child, and now I've five children of my own and they love to play in the dunes too, and do watersports here.\"The affair follows other recent outbreaks of international poaching, including the lifting of a scene from the sun-kissed Bahamas in February this year, to stand in for the Costa Brava in Spain.More cosily, Rochdale Development Corporation was caught out using photographs of street cafes in the centre of Manchester two years ago to back its slogan that Rochdale was \"a happening place\".Alberta is the size of France, Holland and Belgium but has no coast, though plenty of everything else, from deserts to icefields. Temperatures range from 40C (104F) in summer to -54C (-70C) in winter. The population of 3 million thrives on petrochemicals, exporting the world's second largest amount of natural gas. Tourist attractions include Lake Louise and the Alberta Prairies Steam Railway. The province's official bird is the great horned owlBeadnell has a population of 528, two holiday caravan sites and a beach stretching for 1.8 miles. It hosts the largest colony of Arctic terns on mainland Britain. It has a fortified pele tower and a record of famous swimmers, including the poet Swinburne and the novelist EM Forster. Fishing continues from a port which is the only west-facing one on England's east coast. Local specialities include Craster kippers and Lindisfarne mead.\u2022 This article was amended on Tuesday 28 April 2009. Errors of distance appeared in the story above about how seaside imagery from Northumberland was used in a promotional film about landlocked Alberta. We should have sited Edmonton about 2,000 miles from the Atlantic, not 600 miles, and about 500 miles from the Pacific, not 400 miles. The story called Alberta a province, but the headline wrongly called it a state. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["Canada", "Advertising", "Media", "Oil", "Business", "World news", "UK news", "Canada holidays", "Travel", "Americas"], "title": "Canada tourist video shot in Northumbria"},{"date": "2009-06-01T21:14:07Z", "country": "canada", "content": "While Barack Obama tried his hardest to strike an upbeat note on today's bankruptcy filing by General Motors, there was an endearingly gloomy admission north of the border from Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper.Canada's federal government, together with the province of Ontario, is throwing $9.5bn (\u00a35.8bn) at GM, which is quickly becoming known as Government Motors. In return, the Canadians will get an 11.7% stake and a seat on GM's board, effectively serving as a minority partner to the Obama administration.Harper isn't expecting a sparkling return on his investment. He told a press conference in Toronto: \"Clearly taxpayers will get some money back when the day comes that we begin to sell our equity share, but to be frank we are not counting on that.\"A conservative with free market instincts, Harper sounds far from thrilled at having to pony up cash: \"Today's announcement is a regrettable but necessary step to protect the Canadian economy during the worst global recession in half a century.\"An estimated 400,000 Canadian jobs are tied, directly or indirectly, to the automotive industry and the operations of Detroit's motor manufacturers have traditionally spilled across the border.Canada's government, which has already shovelled funds at struggling Chrysler, doesn't have much of a choice. The Obama administration keeps injecting cash into Detroit's strugglers. If the Canadians refuse to participate, there is clearly a worry that factories north of the border will be first in line for the chop.\"Without Canadian money in the game, we would be out of the game,\" Ontario's premier, Dalton McGuinty, acknowledged.It's all a bit grim for Canada's balance sheet. Three months ago, finance minister Jim Flaherty predicted a budget deficit of C$33.7bn (\u00a318.7bn) this year. Six weeks ago, he said the country was \"on track\" to meet that number. Then last week, he abruptly raised his projected deficit to C$50bn, which will be Canada's worst ever.Most of the increase is due to the billions being thrown at Chrysler and GM. The opposition leader, Michael Ignatieff, was unimpressed, sniping: \"Canadians just cannot trust this government with their money. Will the prime minister fire this minister of finance?\"", "tags": ["General Motors", "Business", "Canada", "Automotive industry", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Canada grudgingly stumps up billions for General Motors"},{"date": "2009-06-23T09:15:11Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I have just emigrated from the UK to Canada \u2013 a country where banking is not free. This is something British banks have threatened will become the norm should this week's appeal on the legality of overdraft charges go against them.I've found that you get charged for a legion of things here that you don't in the UK. The bank I'm with, CIBC, is typical. For my \"chequeing\" or current account I am charged $3.90 (\u00a32) a month, plus 60\u00a2 (32p) for each transaction above a maximum of 10 a month. Unhappy? It also costs $19.50 (\u00a310.34) to move your account to another bank, or $12.50 (\u00a36.68) to close it if it was opened fewer than 90 days ago. Credit interest is also minimal (though these days, that is expected).But don't these just replace the charges UK banks levy for going into the red? Well, those are present here too \u2013 $42.50 (\u00a322.70) for a bounced cheque and overdraft interest is 21%. A monthly overdraft service fee is only $5 (\u00a32.67), which is not so bad. But I opened my account a couple of days before the end of the month, was charged a few cents of the monthly fee pro-rata before I deposited anything, and suddenly I was the proud owner of a minus sign. Five bucks, please. Gah!Fees are not popular here and people try hard to dodge them. Banks advertise on the basis of rewards and waiving some of their other fees. For example, RBC promises \"three free uses\" of a non-RBC ATM a month \u2013 because you usually get charged whenever you make a withdrawal from a cash machine that isn't your bank's. Unlike in the UK this particular salami-slicing is not a hot consumer issue.So why are fees tolerated? I think the answer is that people get service and local relationships in return. I was introduced to the staff at my local branch by my (Canadian) wife who knows them by name. Instead of a phone on a table connected to customer services there are real, live people. I have a bank manager as well as her business card and direct line. And I had to scrape my chin off the floor when she called me after learning I was British and said she would answer any questions I had about bank fees. Here a bank is a different concept \u2013 it is a group of local professionals you get to know personally who look after your money and advise you.So I do pay to bank, but I get service in return. If British banks were to charge fees just for keeping an account, what would you expect to receive?", "tags": ["Banks and building societies", "Bank charges", "Money"], "title": "Bank charges are normal in Canada"},{"date": "2009-04-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 1 May 2009A further error has come to light in the story below about the use of seaside imagery from Northumberland in a promotional film about landlocked Alberta. The story quoted Tom Olsen, identified as \"head of media relations for Canada's prime minister Stephen Harper\", defending use of the foreign beach image. This led the writer to deduce, and write, that the national government was delighted with the film clip. Federal officials were not involved in the promotion, and Tom Olsen is spokesman for the premier of Alberta, Ed Stelmach. The sea was blue, the beach was gold and the children skipping through the sand dunes seemed a testament to the healthy joys of holidays in the Canadian province of Alberta. Tourist officials and the national government in Ottawa were delighted with the promotional clip, part of a \u00a314m attempt to offset controversy over oil extraction in Alberta's beautiful wildlands. But hours of sleuthing by a puzzled sailing enthusiast, aware that Alberta has no coastline, have revealed that the idyll was filmed 5,000 miles away across the Atlantic. The girl with the flying hair and her friend were romping on the sweep of sand at Beadnell Bay near Bamburgh, Northumberland, where the North Sea rolls in from Lindisfarne. \"We think it's quite funny - a landlocked province in Canada presenting an image of itself as an island,\" said Sheelagh Caygill of Northumberland Tourism, which is now fondly hoping to piggy-back on the international campaign. News of the gaffe is spreading like wildfire on the internet with tags such as: \"Come to Alberta - no, wait, it's Britain.\"The curious choice of a seaside beach for a place which has none, was spotted by Peter Bailey, a Canadian looking for places to take his dinghy. He initially thought that the scene might be set on one of Alberta's many lakes, whose sandy shores and unpolluted water are important to the tourism drive. Oil extraction is concentrated in Alberta's Oil Sands region, which include landscapes vaguely similar to Northumberland's unspoilt coast. But Bailey tracked down the real setting - halfway between the drama of Bamburgh castle and the kipper-smoking village of Craster - after a marathon email session with the Canadian government, tourist authorities and their PR advisers.Ottawa has responded by suggesting that the choice of Northumberland symbolised the fact that \"Albertans are a worldly people\". Tom Olsen, head of media relations for Canada's prime minister Stephen Harper, said: \"There's no attempt to mislead here. The picture used just fitted the mood and tone of what we were trying to do.\" His take that the British children were \"a symbol of the future\" was echoed by Olga Guthrie of Alberta's public affairs bureau, who is managing the campaign. She said: \"This represents Albertans' concern for the future of the world. There's no attempt to make people think that the place pictured is Alberta.\" The PR agency Calder Bateman which devised the rebranding campaign in Edmonton, Alberta's capital which stands roughly 500 miles from the Pacific and 2,000 miles from the Atlantic, said that it could not comment \"because of the terms of the government's contract.\" Back in Northumberland, Caygill said that local people were \"actually quite thrilled\" that one of their prime beauty spots was being publicised free to so many people worldwide. Legendary links between Bamburgh castle, Lancelot and Guinevere and Tristan and Isolde have been used to plug the area as perfect for romantic getaways. \"We're delighted with any new way of promoting the beauty of the north of England, which is often neglected,\" Caygill said. \"I hope that when people in Alberta realise where the beach is, they'll want to come and visit.\" Beadnell was quiet yesterday, but one pre-season visitor Ian Hooper from Edinburgh sang its praises. The 52-year-old doctor said: \"I'm originally from Newcastle and I love it here. I used to play in the sand dunes as a child, and now I've five children of my own and they love to play in the dunes too, and do watersports here.\"The affair follows other recent outbreaks of international poaching, including the lifting of a scene from the sun-kissed Bahamas in February this year, to stand in for the Costa Brava in Spain.More cosily, Rochdale Development Corporation was caught out using photographs of street cafes in the centre of Manchester two years ago to back its slogan that Rochdale was \"a happening place\".Alberta is the size of France, Holland and Belgium but has no coast, though plenty of everything else, from deserts to icefields. Temperatures range from 40C (104F) in summer to -54C (-70C) in winter. The population of 3 million thrives on petrochemicals, exporting the world's second largest amount of natural gas. Tourist attractions include Lake Louise and the Alberta Prairies Steam Railway. The province's official bird is the great horned owlBeadnell has a population of 528, two holiday caravan sites and a beach stretching for 1.8 miles. It hosts the largest colony of Arctic terns on mainland Britain. It has a fortified pele tower and a record of famous swimmers, including the poet Swinburne and the novelist EM Forster. Fishing continues from a port which is the only west-facing one on England's east coast. Local specialities include Craster kippers and Lindisfarne mead.\u2022 This article was amended on Tuesday 28 April 2009. Errors of distance appeared in the story above about how seaside imagery from Northumberland was used in a promotional film about landlocked Alberta. We should have sited Edmonton about 2,000 miles from the Atlantic, not 600 miles, and about 500 miles from the Pacific, not 400 miles. The story called Alberta a province, but the headline wrongly called it a state. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["Canada", "Advertising", "Media", "Oil", "Business", "World news", "UK news", "Canada holidays", "Travel", "Americas"], "title": "Canada tourist video shot in Northumbria"},{"date": "2009-06-01T21:14:07Z", "country": "canada", "content": "While Barack Obama tried his hardest to strike an upbeat note on today's bankruptcy filing by General Motors, there was an endearingly gloomy admission north of the border from Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper.Canada's federal government, together with the province of Ontario, is throwing $9.5bn (\u00a35.8bn) at GM, which is quickly becoming known as Government Motors. In return, the Canadians will get an 11.7% stake and a seat on GM's board, effectively serving as a minority partner to the Obama administration.Harper isn't expecting a sparkling return on his investment. He told a press conference in Toronto: \"Clearly taxpayers will get some money back when the day comes that we begin to sell our equity share, but to be frank we are not counting on that.\"A conservative with free market instincts, Harper sounds far from thrilled at having to pony up cash: \"Today's announcement is a regrettable but necessary step to protect the Canadian economy during the worst global recession in half a century.\"An estimated 400,000 Canadian jobs are tied, directly or indirectly, to the automotive industry and the operations of Detroit's motor manufacturers have traditionally spilled across the border.Canada's government, which has already shovelled funds at struggling Chrysler, doesn't have much of a choice. The Obama administration keeps injecting cash into Detroit's strugglers. If the Canadians refuse to participate, there is clearly a worry that factories north of the border will be first in line for the chop.\"Without Canadian money in the game, we would be out of the game,\" Ontario's premier, Dalton McGuinty, acknowledged.It's all a bit grim for Canada's balance sheet. Three months ago, finance minister Jim Flaherty predicted a budget deficit of C$33.7bn (\u00a318.7bn) this year. Six weeks ago, he said the country was \"on track\" to meet that number. Then last week, he abruptly raised his projected deficit to C$50bn, which will be Canada's worst ever.Most of the increase is due to the billions being thrown at Chrysler and GM. The opposition leader, Michael Ignatieff, was unimpressed, sniping: \"Canadians just cannot trust this government with their money. Will the prime minister fire this minister of finance?\"", "tags": ["General Motors", "Business", "Canada", "Automotive industry", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Canada grudgingly stumps up billions for General Motors"},{"date": "2009-04-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Mark Twain once exclaimed of a winter: \"Cold! If the thermometer had been an inch longer we'd all have frozen to death.\" That just about sums up what life is like for the inhabitants of The Pole of Cold in eastern Siberia, the coldest inhabited region of the world. A record low of -71.2C (-96.2F) was logged at the village of Oymyakon in January 1926. The inhabitants there regularly use fires under the fuel tanks of their diesel cars and trucks to prevent the fuel from freezing solid. And because water freezes in outdoor pipes, all water supplies are trucked in by tankers.Spitting into the freezing air can be quite an experience. As Jack London related in his story... To Build a Fire, about a man trying to survive in the Yukon in Canada: \"He spat speculatively. There was a sharp, explosive crackle that startled him.\" A similar experience was reported by two weather observers at Snag airport in the Yukon when the temperature sank to -63C (-81F) on 3 February 1947. They, too, saw spit and liquid water freeze solid before hitting the ground. \"We threw a dish of water high into the air, just to see what would happen. Before it hit the ground, it made a hissing noise, froze, and fell as tiny round pellets of ice the size of wheat kernels.\" There was little danger of the men becoming lost, because their breath left behind a trail of frozen fog in the air for 15 minutes.", "tags": ["UK news"], "title": "Weatherwatch: Eastern Siberia and Canada"},{"date": "2009-06-23T09:15:11Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I have just emigrated from the UK to Canada \u2013 a country where banking is not free. This is something British banks have threatened will become the norm should this week's appeal on the legality of overdraft charges go against them.I've found that you get charged for a legion of things here that you don't in the UK. The bank I'm with, CIBC, is typical. For my \"chequeing\" or current account I am charged $3.90 (\u00a32) a month, plus 60\u00a2 (32p) for each transaction above a maximum of 10 a month. Unhappy? It also costs $19.50 (\u00a310.34) to move your account to another bank, or $12.50 (\u00a36.68) to close it if it was opened fewer than 90 days ago. Credit interest is also minimal (though these days, that is expected).But don't these just replace the charges UK banks levy for going into the red? Well, those are present here too \u2013 $42.50 (\u00a322.70) for a bounced cheque and overdraft interest is 21%. A monthly overdraft service fee is only $5 (\u00a32.67), which is not so bad. But I opened my account a couple of days before the end of the month, was charged a few cents of the monthly fee pro-rata before I deposited anything, and suddenly I was the proud owner of a minus sign. Five bucks, please. Gah!Fees are not popular here and people try hard to dodge them. Banks advertise on the basis of rewards and waiving some of their other fees. For example, RBC promises \"three free uses\" of a non-RBC ATM a month \u2013 because you usually get charged whenever you make a withdrawal from a cash machine that isn't your bank's. Unlike in the UK this particular salami-slicing is not a hot consumer issue.So why are fees tolerated? I think the answer is that people get service and local relationships in return. I was introduced to the staff at my local branch by my (Canadian) wife who knows them by name. Instead of a phone on a table connected to customer services there are real, live people. I have a bank manager as well as her business card and direct line. And I had to scrape my chin off the floor when she called me after learning I was British and said she would answer any questions I had about bank fees. Here a bank is a different concept \u2013 it is a group of local professionals you get to know personally who look after your money and advise you.So I do pay to bank, but I get service in return. If British banks were to charge fees just for keeping an account, what would you expect to receive?", "tags": ["Banks and building societies", "Bank charges", "Money"], "title": "Bank charges are normal in Canada"},{"date": "2009-04-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 1 May 2009A further error has come to light in the story below about the use of seaside imagery from Northumberland in a promotional film about landlocked Alberta. The story quoted Tom Olsen, identified as \"head of media relations for Canada's prime minister Stephen Harper\", defending use of the foreign beach image. This led the writer to deduce, and write, that the national government was delighted with the film clip. Federal officials were not involved in the promotion, and Tom Olsen is spokesman for the premier of Alberta, Ed Stelmach. The sea was blue, the beach was gold and the children skipping through the sand dunes seemed a testament to the healthy joys of holidays in the Canadian province of Alberta. Tourist officials and the national government in Ottawa were delighted with the promotional clip, part of a \u00a314m attempt to offset controversy over oil extraction in Alberta's beautiful wildlands. But hours of sleuthing by a puzzled sailing enthusiast, aware that Alberta has no coastline, have revealed that the idyll was filmed 5,000 miles away across the Atlantic. The girl with the flying hair and her friend were romping on the sweep of sand at Beadnell Bay near Bamburgh, Northumberland, where the North Sea rolls in from Lindisfarne. \"We think it's quite funny - a landlocked province in Canada presenting an image of itself as an island,\" said Sheelagh Caygill of Northumberland Tourism, which is now fondly hoping to piggy-back on the international campaign. News of the gaffe is spreading like wildfire on the internet with tags such as: \"Come to Alberta - no, wait, it's Britain.\"The curious choice of a seaside beach for a place which has none, was spotted by Peter Bailey, a Canadian looking for places to take his dinghy. He initially thought that the scene might be set on one of Alberta's many lakes, whose sandy shores and unpolluted water are important to the tourism drive. Oil extraction is concentrated in Alberta's Oil Sands region, which include landscapes vaguely similar to Northumberland's unspoilt coast. But Bailey tracked down the real setting - halfway between the drama of Bamburgh castle and the kipper-smoking village of Craster - after a marathon email session with the Canadian government, tourist authorities and their PR advisers.Ottawa has responded by suggesting that the choice of Northumberland symbolised the fact that \"Albertans are a worldly people\". Tom Olsen, head of media relations for Canada's prime minister Stephen Harper, said: \"There's no attempt to mislead here. The picture used just fitted the mood and tone of what we were trying to do.\" His take that the British children were \"a symbol of the future\" was echoed by Olga Guthrie of Alberta's public affairs bureau, who is managing the campaign. She said: \"This represents Albertans' concern for the future of the world. There's no attempt to make people think that the place pictured is Alberta.\" The PR agency Calder Bateman which devised the rebranding campaign in Edmonton, Alberta's capital which stands roughly 500 miles from the Pacific and 2,000 miles from the Atlantic, said that it could not comment \"because of the terms of the government's contract.\" Back in Northumberland, Caygill said that local people were \"actually quite thrilled\" that one of their prime beauty spots was being publicised free to so many people worldwide. Legendary links between Bamburgh castle, Lancelot and Guinevere and Tristan and Isolde have been used to plug the area as perfect for romantic getaways. \"We're delighted with any new way of promoting the beauty of the north of England, which is often neglected,\" Caygill said. \"I hope that when people in Alberta realise where the beach is, they'll want to come and visit.\" Beadnell was quiet yesterday, but one pre-season visitor Ian Hooper from Edinburgh sang its praises. The 52-year-old doctor said: \"I'm originally from Newcastle and I love it here. I used to play in the sand dunes as a child, and now I've five children of my own and they love to play in the dunes too, and do watersports here.\"The affair follows other recent outbreaks of international poaching, including the lifting of a scene from the sun-kissed Bahamas in February this year, to stand in for the Costa Brava in Spain.More cosily, Rochdale Development Corporation was caught out using photographs of street cafes in the centre of Manchester two years ago to back its slogan that Rochdale was \"a happening place\".Alberta is the size of France, Holland and Belgium but has no coast, though plenty of everything else, from deserts to icefields. Temperatures range from 40C (104F) in summer to -54C (-70C) in winter. The population of 3 million thrives on petrochemicals, exporting the world's second largest amount of natural gas. Tourist attractions include Lake Louise and the Alberta Prairies Steam Railway. The province's official bird is the great horned owlBeadnell has a population of 528, two holiday caravan sites and a beach stretching for 1.8 miles. It hosts the largest colony of Arctic terns on mainland Britain. It has a fortified pele tower and a record of famous swimmers, including the poet Swinburne and the novelist EM Forster. Fishing continues from a port which is the only west-facing one on England's east coast. Local specialities include Craster kippers and Lindisfarne mead.\u2022 This article was amended on Tuesday 28 April 2009. Errors of distance appeared in the story above about how seaside imagery from Northumberland was used in a promotional film about landlocked Alberta. We should have sited Edmonton about 2,000 miles from the Atlantic, not 600 miles, and about 500 miles from the Pacific, not 400 miles. The story called Alberta a province, but the headline wrongly called it a state. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["Canada", "Advertising", "Media", "Oil", "Business", "World news", "UK news", "Canada holidays", "Travel", "Americas"], "title": "Canada tourist video shot in Northumbria"},{"date": "2009-06-01T21:14:07Z", "country": "canada", "content": "While Barack Obama tried his hardest to strike an upbeat note on today's bankruptcy filing by General Motors, there was an endearingly gloomy admission north of the border from Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper.Canada's federal government, together with the province of Ontario, is throwing $9.5bn (\u00a35.8bn) at GM, which is quickly becoming known as Government Motors. In return, the Canadians will get an 11.7% stake and a seat on GM's board, effectively serving as a minority partner to the Obama administration.Harper isn't expecting a sparkling return on his investment. He told a press conference in Toronto: \"Clearly taxpayers will get some money back when the day comes that we begin to sell our equity share, but to be frank we are not counting on that.\"A conservative with free market instincts, Harper sounds far from thrilled at having to pony up cash: \"Today's announcement is a regrettable but necessary step to protect the Canadian economy during the worst global recession in half a century.\"An estimated 400,000 Canadian jobs are tied, directly or indirectly, to the automotive industry and the operations of Detroit's motor manufacturers have traditionally spilled across the border.Canada's government, which has already shovelled funds at struggling Chrysler, doesn't have much of a choice. The Obama administration keeps injecting cash into Detroit's strugglers. If the Canadians refuse to participate, there is clearly a worry that factories north of the border will be first in line for the chop.\"Without Canadian money in the game, we would be out of the game,\" Ontario's premier, Dalton McGuinty, acknowledged.It's all a bit grim for Canada's balance sheet. Three months ago, finance minister Jim Flaherty predicted a budget deficit of C$33.7bn (\u00a318.7bn) this year. Six weeks ago, he said the country was \"on track\" to meet that number. Then last week, he abruptly raised his projected deficit to C$50bn, which will be Canada's worst ever.Most of the increase is due to the billions being thrown at Chrysler and GM. The opposition leader, Michael Ignatieff, was unimpressed, sniping: \"Canadians just cannot trust this government with their money. Will the prime minister fire this minister of finance?\"", "tags": ["General Motors", "Business", "Canada", "Automotive industry", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Canada grudgingly stumps up billions for General Motors"},{"date": "2009-04-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Mark Twain once exclaimed of a winter: \"Cold! If the thermometer had been an inch longer we'd all have frozen to death.\" That just about sums up what life is like for the inhabitants of The Pole of Cold in eastern Siberia, the coldest inhabited region of the world. A record low of -71.2C (-96.2F) was logged at the village of Oymyakon in January 1926. The inhabitants there regularly use fires under the fuel tanks of their diesel cars and trucks to prevent the fuel from freezing solid. And because water freezes in outdoor pipes, all water supplies are trucked in by tankers.Spitting into the freezing air can be quite an experience. As Jack London related in his story... To Build a Fire, about a man trying to survive in the Yukon in Canada: \"He spat speculatively. There was a sharp, explosive crackle that startled him.\" A similar experience was reported by two weather observers at Snag airport in the Yukon when the temperature sank to -63C (-81F) on 3 February 1947. They, too, saw spit and liquid water freeze solid before hitting the ground. \"We threw a dish of water high into the air, just to see what would happen. Before it hit the ground, it made a hissing noise, froze, and fell as tiny round pellets of ice the size of wheat kernels.\" There was little danger of the men becoming lost, because their breath left behind a trail of frozen fog in the air for 15 minutes.", "tags": ["UK news"], "title": "Weatherwatch: Eastern Siberia and Canada"},{"date": "2009-06-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The scenic Canadian town of Halton Hills, home to 55,000 people, seems an unlikely epicentre for a trade war. Known for its hiking trails, tanneries and craft shows, the affluent community west of Toronto sits in rural land near the cliffs of the Niagara Escarpment.But Halton Hills, only 90 minutes from the US border, is taking on the might of Washington. The town's outspoken mayor, Rick Bonnette, has banned US companies from tendering for local public works in a tit-for-tat protest at controversial \"buy American\" provisions inserted in the Obama administration's $787bn (\u00a3478bn) economic stimulus package.\"We need good Canadian backbone, not Canadian back bacon,\" says Bonnette, who is locking US firms out of street lighting, railings, sewage facilities, parks and recreation expenditure. \"It's like dealing with a big kid in a playground. They push you, you say OK. They push you again, you say OK. Eventually, you've got to kick them.\"Few nations are as interlinked as the US and Canada. The neighbours conduct $1m of business every minute and an estimated 10m North American jobs depend on cross-border trade. But a simmering quarrel is coming to the boil over Washington-inspired measures intended to protect American jobs.Buried in Obama's Economic Stimulus Act, section 1605 stipulates that none of the billions made available by Congress can be used for public infrastructure unless \"all the iron, steel and manufactured goods used in the project are produced in the United States\".Inserted by Democrats on Capitol Hill, the measure has angered the US's foreign trading partners and has been criticised as \"mistaken\" by the US-appointed head of the World Bank.Canada, which depends on the US for 70% of its exports, is disproportionately badly hit and is threatening retaliation. This month the Federation of Canadian Municipalities passed a resolution under which its 1,775 member towns will join Halton Hills in barring US contractors unless Washington reverses its stance. Canada's trade minister, Stockwell Day, said the US stance was \"a textbook case of how when doors begin to close, and trade barriers go up, economies go down\". There was outrage when it emerged that a section of plastic piping at a Californian marine base, Camp Pendleton, had been ripped out of the ground as an illegal import when a naval official noticed that it was stamped \"made in Canada\". In British Columbia, a Canadian businessman marketing equestrian products was barred from entry to the US by a border guard who accused him of \"stealing jobs away from American citizens\".Disquiet has also been voiced by Britain, albeit in a measured tone. The British ambassador to Washington, Sir Nigel Sheinwald, recently wrote an opinion article for the Baltimore Sun on \"the peril of protectionism\", in which he expressed \"real concern\" at measures such as the \"buy American\" rules.The Confederation of British Industry reports that a dozen British firms have expressed alarm. Rhian Chilcott, head of the CBI's Washington office, said: \"Companies are just getting discouraged from even competing. They're saying 'we're not even going to bother'.\"The US is far from alone in instituting such measures. In Beijing this week, the Chinese government adopted a \"buy China\" policy for its 4tn yuan (\u00a3350bn) economic booster package, except in cases where Chinese goods are unavailable on \"reasonable commercial terms\". Australia's most populous state, New South Wales, declared on Tuesday that domestic firms would get an automatic 20% premium in bidding for public projects in order to \"protect local jobs\" in a period of economic hardship.Advocates say it is perfectly sensible for nations to ensure that stimulus money is spent locally. Thea Lea, policy director at the AFL-CIO trade union confederation in the US, has no patience for \"whining\" over the clause: \"It is entirely reasonable, from an economic standpoint, especially since some other countries are not engaging in stimulus to the same degree, that we want to ensure this money is spent effectively.\"She denies that it is protectionism: \"If a consumer walks into a store, checks the label on some T-shirts, and chooses to buy an American-made T-shirt, that's not protectionism.\"A spokesman for the White House said the administration was committed to implementing the provisions \"in full accordance with the United States' international trade obligations\". Though the World Trade Organisation bans discriminatory spending at national level, it does not cover expenditure at regional, city or local level.Critics say bans on foreign spending ignore the international nature of supply chains. John Hayward is president of Hayward Gordon, a Canadian supplier of waste water pumps. He does $8m of business a year with the US and is already concerned that two contracts - in Maryland and Indiana - could be jeopardised by the \"buy America\" rules. He says the US is shooting itself in the foot. \"We use a lot of American components in our pumps,\" he says. Many contain a motor made in the US state of Georgia. \"If we're hurting, so will the motor manufacturer in Georgia.\"Others cite the sheer cost to taxpayers of paying over the odds for domestic produce - and the long-term damage wreaked on a country's exporters by inevitable tit-for-tat action. \"It's a beggar thy neighbour policy that ends up damaging the jurisdiction that imposes it,\" says Perrin Beatty, head of the Canadian Chamber of Commerce. He accuses the US of blatantly breaching promises at London's recent G20 summit, where leaders pledged: \"We will not repeat the historic mistakes of protectionism of previous eras.\"In Halton Hills, the council's annual budget is only C$30m (\u00a316m). A lock-out from such a sum is hardly enough to worry US economists. But Canadian economists say that the US will notice the pain if Toronto, Montreal or Vancouver end up following suit.The mayor of Halton Hills says his citizens are affronted by a US policy that goes against the grain of decades of warm cross-border relations. \"What the US is doing is destroying well-planned economic co-operation, which has developed to the benefit of both countries.\" The principle, says Bonnette, is what counts: \"Free trade is fair trade. We'll deal with companies from the European Union. We'll deal with Mexico, China, India - but we don't want to deal with any country right now that's discriminating against us.\"$787bn The amount provided in Barack Obama's economic stimulus plan$1m The amount of business conducted every minute between Canada and the US70% The proportion of Canada's exports that goes to the US\u00a54tn The economic booster package offered by the Chinese government, which includes a 'buy Chinese' policy", "tags": ["Global economy", "Global recession", "US economy", "Canada", "US news", "World news", "Business", "Americas"], "title": "Canada and US trade insults across border over American protectionism"},{"date": "2009-06-23T09:15:11Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I have just emigrated from the UK to Canada \u2013 a country where banking is not free. This is something British banks have threatened will become the norm should this week's appeal on the legality of overdraft charges go against them.I've found that you get charged for a legion of things here that you don't in the UK. The bank I'm with, CIBC, is typical. For my \"chequeing\" or current account I am charged $3.90 (\u00a32) a month, plus 60\u00a2 (32p) for each transaction above a maximum of 10 a month. Unhappy? It also costs $19.50 (\u00a310.34) to move your account to another bank, or $12.50 (\u00a36.68) to close it if it was opened fewer than 90 days ago. Credit interest is also minimal (though these days, that is expected).But don't these just replace the charges UK banks levy for going into the red? Well, those are present here too \u2013 $42.50 (\u00a322.70) for a bounced cheque and overdraft interest is 21%. A monthly overdraft service fee is only $5 (\u00a32.67), which is not so bad. But I opened my account a couple of days before the end of the month, was charged a few cents of the monthly fee pro-rata before I deposited anything, and suddenly I was the proud owner of a minus sign. Five bucks, please. Gah!Fees are not popular here and people try hard to dodge them. Banks advertise on the basis of rewards and waiving some of their other fees. For example, RBC promises \"three free uses\" of a non-RBC ATM a month \u2013 because you usually get charged whenever you make a withdrawal from a cash machine that isn't your bank's. Unlike in the UK this particular salami-slicing is not a hot consumer issue.So why are fees tolerated? I think the answer is that people get service and local relationships in return. I was introduced to the staff at my local branch by my (Canadian) wife who knows them by name. Instead of a phone on a table connected to customer services there are real, live people. I have a bank manager as well as her business card and direct line. And I had to scrape my chin off the floor when she called me after learning I was British and said she would answer any questions I had about bank fees. Here a bank is a different concept \u2013 it is a group of local professionals you get to know personally who look after your money and advise you.So I do pay to bank, but I get service in return. If British banks were to charge fees just for keeping an account, what would you expect to receive?", "tags": ["Banks and building societies", "Bank charges", "Money"], "title": "Bank charges are normal in Canada"},{"date": "2009-04-24T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The following correction was printed in the Guardian's Corrections and clarifications column, Friday 1 May 2009A further error has come to light in the story below about the use of seaside imagery from Northumberland in a promotional film about landlocked Alberta. The story quoted Tom Olsen, identified as \"head of media relations for Canada's prime minister Stephen Harper\", defending use of the foreign beach image. This led the writer to deduce, and write, that the national government was delighted with the film clip. Federal officials were not involved in the promotion, and Tom Olsen is spokesman for the premier of Alberta, Ed Stelmach. The sea was blue, the beach was gold and the children skipping through the sand dunes seemed a testament to the healthy joys of holidays in the Canadian province of Alberta. Tourist officials and the national government in Ottawa were delighted with the promotional clip, part of a \u00a314m attempt to offset controversy over oil extraction in Alberta's beautiful wildlands. But hours of sleuthing by a puzzled sailing enthusiast, aware that Alberta has no coastline, have revealed that the idyll was filmed 5,000 miles away across the Atlantic. The girl with the flying hair and her friend were romping on the sweep of sand at Beadnell Bay near Bamburgh, Northumberland, where the North Sea rolls in from Lindisfarne. \"We think it's quite funny - a landlocked province in Canada presenting an image of itself as an island,\" said Sheelagh Caygill of Northumberland Tourism, which is now fondly hoping to piggy-back on the international campaign. News of the gaffe is spreading like wildfire on the internet with tags such as: \"Come to Alberta - no, wait, it's Britain.\"The curious choice of a seaside beach for a place which has none, was spotted by Peter Bailey, a Canadian looking for places to take his dinghy. He initially thought that the scene might be set on one of Alberta's many lakes, whose sandy shores and unpolluted water are important to the tourism drive. Oil extraction is concentrated in Alberta's Oil Sands region, which include landscapes vaguely similar to Northumberland's unspoilt coast. But Bailey tracked down the real setting - halfway between the drama of Bamburgh castle and the kipper-smoking village of Craster - after a marathon email session with the Canadian government, tourist authorities and their PR advisers.Ottawa has responded by suggesting that the choice of Northumberland symbolised the fact that \"Albertans are a worldly people\". Tom Olsen, head of media relations for Canada's prime minister Stephen Harper, said: \"There's no attempt to mislead here. The picture used just fitted the mood and tone of what we were trying to do.\" His take that the British children were \"a symbol of the future\" was echoed by Olga Guthrie of Alberta's public affairs bureau, who is managing the campaign. She said: \"This represents Albertans' concern for the future of the world. There's no attempt to make people think that the place pictured is Alberta.\" The PR agency Calder Bateman which devised the rebranding campaign in Edmonton, Alberta's capital which stands roughly 500 miles from the Pacific and 2,000 miles from the Atlantic, said that it could not comment \"because of the terms of the government's contract.\" Back in Northumberland, Caygill said that local people were \"actually quite thrilled\" that one of their prime beauty spots was being publicised free to so many people worldwide. Legendary links between Bamburgh castle, Lancelot and Guinevere and Tristan and Isolde have been used to plug the area as perfect for romantic getaways. \"We're delighted with any new way of promoting the beauty of the north of England, which is often neglected,\" Caygill said. \"I hope that when people in Alberta realise where the beach is, they'll want to come and visit.\" Beadnell was quiet yesterday, but one pre-season visitor Ian Hooper from Edinburgh sang its praises. The 52-year-old doctor said: \"I'm originally from Newcastle and I love it here. I used to play in the sand dunes as a child, and now I've five children of my own and they love to play in the dunes too, and do watersports here.\"The affair follows other recent outbreaks of international poaching, including the lifting of a scene from the sun-kissed Bahamas in February this year, to stand in for the Costa Brava in Spain.More cosily, Rochdale Development Corporation was caught out using photographs of street cafes in the centre of Manchester two years ago to back its slogan that Rochdale was \"a happening place\".Alberta is the size of France, Holland and Belgium but has no coast, though plenty of everything else, from deserts to icefields. Temperatures range from 40C (104F) in summer to -54C (-70C) in winter. The population of 3 million thrives on petrochemicals, exporting the world's second largest amount of natural gas. Tourist attractions include Lake Louise and the Alberta Prairies Steam Railway. The province's official bird is the great horned owlBeadnell has a population of 528, two holiday caravan sites and a beach stretching for 1.8 miles. It hosts the largest colony of Arctic terns on mainland Britain. It has a fortified pele tower and a record of famous swimmers, including the poet Swinburne and the novelist EM Forster. Fishing continues from a port which is the only west-facing one on England's east coast. Local specialities include Craster kippers and Lindisfarne mead.\u2022 This article was amended on Tuesday 28 April 2009. Errors of distance appeared in the story above about how seaside imagery from Northumberland was used in a promotional film about landlocked Alberta. We should have sited Edmonton about 2,000 miles from the Atlantic, not 600 miles, and about 500 miles from the Pacific, not 400 miles. The story called Alberta a province, but the headline wrongly called it a state. These errors have been corrected.", "tags": ["Canada", "Advertising", "Media", "Oil", "Business", "World news", "UK news", "Canada holidays", "Travel", "Americas"], "title": "Canada tourist video shot in Northumbria"},{"date": "2009-06-01T21:14:07Z", "country": "canada", "content": "While Barack Obama tried his hardest to strike an upbeat note on today's bankruptcy filing by General Motors, there was an endearingly gloomy admission north of the border from Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper.Canada's federal government, together with the province of Ontario, is throwing $9.5bn (\u00a35.8bn) at GM, which is quickly becoming known as Government Motors. In return, the Canadians will get an 11.7% stake and a seat on GM's board, effectively serving as a minority partner to the Obama administration.Harper isn't expecting a sparkling return on his investment. He told a press conference in Toronto: \"Clearly taxpayers will get some money back when the day comes that we begin to sell our equity share, but to be frank we are not counting on that.\"A conservative with free market instincts, Harper sounds far from thrilled at having to pony up cash: \"Today's announcement is a regrettable but necessary step to protect the Canadian economy during the worst global recession in half a century.\"An estimated 400,000 Canadian jobs are tied, directly or indirectly, to the automotive industry and the operations of Detroit's motor manufacturers have traditionally spilled across the border.Canada's government, which has already shovelled funds at struggling Chrysler, doesn't have much of a choice. The Obama administration keeps injecting cash into Detroit's strugglers. If the Canadians refuse to participate, there is clearly a worry that factories north of the border will be first in line for the chop.\"Without Canadian money in the game, we would be out of the game,\" Ontario's premier, Dalton McGuinty, acknowledged.It's all a bit grim for Canada's balance sheet. Three months ago, finance minister Jim Flaherty predicted a budget deficit of C$33.7bn (\u00a318.7bn) this year. Six weeks ago, he said the country was \"on track\" to meet that number. Then last week, he abruptly raised his projected deficit to C$50bn, which will be Canada's worst ever.Most of the increase is due to the billions being thrown at Chrysler and GM. The opposition leader, Michael Ignatieff, was unimpressed, sniping: \"Canadians just cannot trust this government with their money. Will the prime minister fire this minister of finance?\"", "tags": ["General Motors", "Business", "Canada", "Automotive industry", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Canada grudgingly stumps up billions for General Motors"},{"date": "2009-04-01T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Mark Twain once exclaimed of a winter: \"Cold! If the thermometer had been an inch longer we'd all have frozen to death.\" That just about sums up what life is like for the inhabitants of The Pole of Cold in eastern Siberia, the coldest inhabited region of the world. A record low of -71.2C (-96.2F) was logged at the village of Oymyakon in January 1926. The inhabitants there regularly use fires under the fuel tanks of their diesel cars and trucks to prevent the fuel from freezing solid. And because water freezes in outdoor pipes, all water supplies are trucked in by tankers.Spitting into the freezing air can be quite an experience. As Jack London related in his story... To Build a Fire, about a man trying to survive in the Yukon in Canada: \"He spat speculatively. There was a sharp, explosive crackle that startled him.\" A similar experience was reported by two weather observers at Snag airport in the Yukon when the temperature sank to -63C (-81F) on 3 February 1947. They, too, saw spit and liquid water freeze solid before hitting the ground. \"We threw a dish of water high into the air, just to see what would happen. Before it hit the ground, it made a hissing noise, froze, and fell as tiny round pellets of ice the size of wheat kernels.\" There was little danger of the men becoming lost, because their breath left behind a trail of frozen fog in the air for 15 minutes.", "tags": ["UK news"], "title": "Weatherwatch: Eastern Siberia and Canada"},{"date": "2009-06-19T23:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The scenic Canadian town of Halton Hills, home to 55,000 people, seems an unlikely epicentre for a trade war. Known for its hiking trails, tanneries and craft shows, the affluent community west of Toronto sits in rural land near the cliffs of the Niagara Escarpment.But Halton Hills, only 90 minutes from the US border, is taking on the might of Washington. The town's outspoken mayor, Rick Bonnette, has banned US companies from tendering for local public works in a tit-for-tat protest at controversial \"buy American\" provisions inserted in the Obama administration's $787bn (\u00a3478bn) economic stimulus package.\"We need good Canadian backbone, not Canadian back bacon,\" says Bonnette, who is locking US firms out of street lighting, railings, sewage facilities, parks and recreation expenditure. \"It's like dealing with a big kid in a playground. They push you, you say OK. They push you again, you say OK. Eventually, you've got to kick them.\"Few nations are as interlinked as the US and Canada. The neighbours conduct $1m of business every minute and an estimated 10m North American jobs depend on cross-border trade. But a simmering quarrel is coming to the boil over Washington-inspired measures intended to protect American jobs.Buried in Obama's Economic Stimulus Act, section 1605 stipulates that none of the billions made available by Congress can be used for public infrastructure unless \"all the iron, steel and manufactured goods used in the project are produced in the United States\".Inserted by Democrats on Capitol Hill, the measure has angered the US's foreign trading partners and has been criticised as \"mistaken\" by the US-appointed head of the World Bank.Canada, which depends on the US for 70% of its exports, is disproportionately badly hit and is threatening retaliation. This month the Federation of Canadian Municipalities passed a resolution under which its 1,775 member towns will join Halton Hills in barring US contractors unless Washington reverses its stance. Canada's trade minister, Stockwell Day, said the US stance was \"a textbook case of how when doors begin to close, and trade barriers go up, economies go down\". There was outrage when it emerged that a section of plastic piping at a Californian marine base, Camp Pendleton, had been ripped out of the ground as an illegal import when a naval official noticed that it was stamped \"made in Canada\". In British Columbia, a Canadian businessman marketing equestrian products was barred from entry to the US by a border guard who accused him of \"stealing jobs away from American citizens\".Disquiet has also been voiced by Britain, albeit in a measured tone. The British ambassador to Washington, Sir Nigel Sheinwald, recently wrote an opinion article for the Baltimore Sun on \"the peril of protectionism\", in which he expressed \"real concern\" at measures such as the \"buy American\" rules.The Confederation of British Industry reports that a dozen British firms have expressed alarm. Rhian Chilcott, head of the CBI's Washington office, said: \"Companies are just getting discouraged from even competing. They're saying 'we're not even going to bother'.\"The US is far from alone in instituting such measures. In Beijing this week, the Chinese government adopted a \"buy China\" policy for its 4tn yuan (\u00a3350bn) economic booster package, except in cases where Chinese goods are unavailable on \"reasonable commercial terms\". Australia's most populous state, New South Wales, declared on Tuesday that domestic firms would get an automatic 20% premium in bidding for public projects in order to \"protect local jobs\" in a period of economic hardship.Advocates say it is perfectly sensible for nations to ensure that stimulus money is spent locally. Thea Lea, policy director at the AFL-CIO trade union confederation in the US, has no patience for \"whining\" over the clause: \"It is entirely reasonable, from an economic standpoint, especially since some other countries are not engaging in stimulus to the same degree, that we want to ensure this money is spent effectively.\"She denies that it is protectionism: \"If a consumer walks into a store, checks the label on some T-shirts, and chooses to buy an American-made T-shirt, that's not protectionism.\"A spokesman for the White House said the administration was committed to implementing the provisions \"in full accordance with the United States' international trade obligations\". Though the World Trade Organisation bans discriminatory spending at national level, it does not cover expenditure at regional, city or local level.Critics say bans on foreign spending ignore the international nature of supply chains. John Hayward is president of Hayward Gordon, a Canadian supplier of waste water pumps. He does $8m of business a year with the US and is already concerned that two contracts - in Maryland and Indiana - could be jeopardised by the \"buy America\" rules. He says the US is shooting itself in the foot. \"We use a lot of American components in our pumps,\" he says. Many contain a motor made in the US state of Georgia. \"If we're hurting, so will the motor manufacturer in Georgia.\"Others cite the sheer cost to taxpayers of paying over the odds for domestic produce - and the long-term damage wreaked on a country's exporters by inevitable tit-for-tat action. \"It's a beggar thy neighbour policy that ends up damaging the jurisdiction that imposes it,\" says Perrin Beatty, head of the Canadian Chamber of Commerce. He accuses the US of blatantly breaching promises at London's recent G20 summit, where leaders pledged: \"We will not repeat the historic mistakes of protectionism of previous eras.\"In Halton Hills, the council's annual budget is only C$30m (\u00a316m). A lock-out from such a sum is hardly enough to worry US economists. But Canadian economists say that the US will notice the pain if Toronto, Montreal or Vancouver end up following suit.The mayor of Halton Hills says his citizens are affronted by a US policy that goes against the grain of decades of warm cross-border relations. \"What the US is doing is destroying well-planned economic co-operation, which has developed to the benefit of both countries.\" The principle, says Bonnette, is what counts: \"Free trade is fair trade. We'll deal with companies from the European Union. We'll deal with Mexico, China, India - but we don't want to deal with any country right now that's discriminating against us.\"$787bn The amount provided in Barack Obama's economic stimulus plan$1m The amount of business conducted every minute between Canada and the US70% The proportion of Canada's exports that goes to the US\u00a54tn The economic booster package offered by the Chinese government, which includes a 'buy Chinese' policy", "tags": ["Global economy", "Global recession", "US economy", "Canada", "US news", "World news", "Business", "Americas"], "title": "Canada and US trade insults across border over American protectionism"},{"date": "2009-04-24T12:00:53Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It's an arresting image \u2013 the moment when a nun falls from Toronto's Bloor Street Viaduct in Michael Ondaatje's novel In the Skin of a Lion, and is caught by a worker. \"He saw it was a black-garbed bird, a girl's white face. He saw this in the light that sprayed down inconsistently from a flare fifteen yards above them. They hung in the halter, pivoting over the valley, his broken arm loose on one side of him, holding the woman with the other \u2026 \"And this is an arresting idea from a group of Canadians \u2013 a plan to place permanent markers displaying text from stories and poems in the locations where they take place. Yesterday saw Ondaatje launch the project on Bloor Street Viaduct, and there are plans to place what they're calling Bookmarks across Canada \u2013 Carol Shields in Winnipeg, Michael Crummey in St John's, Anne Michaels' Fugitive Pieces on Toronto's Grace Street.\"Readers can step right into the stories, experiencing the authors' visions and the real locales simultaneously,\" says Project Bookmark Canada's founder, the writer Miranda Hill, wife of bestselling Canadian novelist Lawrence Hill, author of The Book of Negroes. \"My vision is that you should be able to read your way right across Canada.\"Lucky Canada. Why can't we do the same thing in the UK? It'd be great to have a mini-extract from Notes on a Scandal enshrined on Hampstead Heath, or JG Ballard in Shepperton, or To the Lighthouse on Skye. The problem is whom to pick \u2013 would Sheba's illicit trysts really win Hampstead, or ought the plum location to go to Will Self's post-apocalyptic version in The Book of Dave, or Wilkie Collins' nighttime vision in The Woman in White (\"The quiet twilight was still trembling on the topmost ridges of the heath; and the view of London below me had sunk into a black gulf in the shadow of the cloudy night, when I stood before the gate of my mother's cottage\")? With which stories, and where, would you bookmark the UK?", "tags": ["Michael Ondaatje", "Books", "Heritage", "Culture"], "title": "Let's follow Canada and display writers' words in the places they describe"},{"date": "2009-09-30T15:29:18Z", "country": "canada", "content": "They will be watching Juan Carlos Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt very closely at his jail in Vermont.The last time the silver-tongued Colombian conman with a taste for the high life was locked up he walked out of a British prison after persuading the authorities to let him go to the dentist on his own.But after illegally crossing the border from Canada, the man who British police have likened to the legendary US conman Frank Abagnale, played by Leonardo DiCaprio in the film Catch Me If You Can, now faces the prospect of up to eight countries and the US state of Nevada asking for his extradition.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt, 33, is believed to have stolen at least $1m (\u00a3625,000) across the globe including more than \u00a3150,000 in Britain by conning his way into hotel rooms and clearing out safes as well as more routine fraud.The Colombian has at least 10 identities and has been pursued in Canada, Colombia, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Thailand and Venezuela. He's been convicted of larceny in Virginia and New York and credit card fraud in Florida, and deported from the US three times.His earliest known con was to be found standing on the runway of Miami airport claiming to be a 13-year-old orphan who had clung to the undercarriage of a flight from Colombia. That unlikely story generated an outpouring of sympathy and gifts, and tens of thousands of dollars in donations to a support fund. After he fled with the cash, it emerged that Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was 17 years old with two healthy parents.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was known in Britain as Gonzalo Zapater Vives. He was detained there in 1998 following a series of burglaries but jumped bail. When he was finally picked up again in Mayfair in 2004 after an off duty policeman spotted him in a supermarket, the Colombian was tried and jailed for burglaries at the Dorchester Hotel and the Mandarin Oriental Hotel.The detective who arrested him, Andy Swindells, described Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt as a \"highly accomplished liar\" who staked out high class hotels, identified wealthy victims and waited for them to leave their rooms. Then he persuaded hotel staff to let him in, and once there would call security claiming to have forgotten the key or security code to the safe. Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt walked out with money, jewels and passports.He was sentenced to 3\u00bd years in prison but served only two months at Standford Hill open prison on the Isle of Sheppey before being allowed out on his own for a dental appointment. He never returned.The Colombian was arrested a few weeks later in Dublin for theft, served prison time and was ordered extradited to France. Then he disappeared again.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was detained by US border guards earlier this month after a tipoff as he waited for a taxi at a petrol station. He tried to persuade the officials that he had wandered across the frontier accidentally after his car broke down. But the border guards took him in to custody as a suspected illegal immigrant until his fingerprints revealed him as the elusive conman.", "tags": ["US news", "Colombia", "UK news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "International conman Juan Carlos Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt captured at US-Canada border"},{"date": "2009-09-30T15:29:18Z", "country": "canada", "content": "They will be watching Juan Carlos Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt very closely at his jail in Vermont.The last time the silver-tongued Colombian conman with a taste for the high life was locked up he walked out of a British prison after persuading the authorities to let him go to the dentist on his own.But after illegally crossing the border from Canada, the man who British police have likened to the legendary US conman Frank Abagnale, played by Leonardo DiCaprio in the film Catch Me If You Can, now faces the prospect of up to eight countries and the US state of Nevada asking for his extradition.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt, 33, is believed to have stolen at least $1m (\u00a3625,000) across the globe including more than \u00a3150,000 in Britain by conning his way into hotel rooms and clearing out safes as well as more routine fraud.The Colombian has at least 10 identities and has been pursued in Canada, Colombia, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Thailand and Venezuela. He's been convicted of larceny in Virginia and New York and credit card fraud in Florida, and deported from the US three times.His earliest known con was to be found standing on the runway of Miami airport claiming to be a 13-year-old orphan who had clung to the undercarriage of a flight from Colombia. That unlikely story generated an outpouring of sympathy and gifts, and tens of thousands of dollars in donations to a support fund. After he fled with the cash, it emerged that Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was 17 years old with two healthy parents.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was known in Britain as Gonzalo Zapater Vives. He was detained there in 1998 following a series of burglaries but jumped bail. When he was finally picked up again in Mayfair in 2004 after an off duty policeman spotted him in a supermarket, the Colombian was tried and jailed for burglaries at the Dorchester Hotel and the Mandarin Oriental Hotel.The detective who arrested him, Andy Swindells, described Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt as a \"highly accomplished liar\" who staked out high class hotels, identified wealthy victims and waited for them to leave their rooms. Then he persuaded hotel staff to let him in, and once there would call security claiming to have forgotten the key or security code to the safe. Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt walked out with money, jewels and passports.He was sentenced to 3\u00bd years in prison but served only two months at Standford Hill open prison on the Isle of Sheppey before being allowed out on his own for a dental appointment. He never returned.The Colombian was arrested a few weeks later in Dublin for theft, served prison time and was ordered extradited to France. Then he disappeared again.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was detained by US border guards earlier this month after a tipoff as he waited for a taxi at a petrol station. He tried to persuade the officials that he had wandered across the frontier accidentally after his car broke down. But the border guards took him in to custody as a suspected illegal immigrant until his fingerprints revealed him as the elusive conman.", "tags": ["US news", "Colombia", "UK news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "International conman Juan Carlos Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt captured at US-Canada border"},{"date": "2009-09-19T23:05:19Z", "country": "canada", "content": "First it was the giant panda, then the polar bear, now it seems that the grizzly bear is the latest species to face impending disaster.A furious row has erupted in Canada with conservationists desperately lobbying the government to suspend the annual bear-hunting season following reports of a sudden drop in the numbers of wild bears spotted on salmon streams and key coastal areas where they would normally be feeding.The government has promised to order a count of bears, but not until after this year's autumn trophy hunts have taken place. It has enraged ecology groups which say that a dearth of salmon stocks may be responsible for many bears starving in their dens during hibernation. The female grizzlies have their cubs during winter after gorging themselves in September on the fish fats that sustain them through the following months.\"I've never seen bears hungry in the fall before, but last year they were starving,\" said British Columbian wildlife guide and photographer Doug Neasloss. \"I noticed in the spring there weren't as many bears coming out, but I felt it was premature to jump to conclusions.\" But now, he said, \"there just aren't any bears. It's scary.\"It was the same story, he said, from other guides over 16 rivers where once they would have been encountering dozens of grizzly bears. \"There has been a huge drop in numbers. I've never experienced anything this bad.\" Reports from stream walkers, who monitor salmon streams across the vast territories, have been consistent, according to the conservation group Pacific Wild \u2013 no bears, and more worryingly, no bear cubs.\"There are just no bears out there, I'm hearing that from every side now,\" said Ian McAllister from Pacific Wild. He said that because a few grizzlies have been wandering close to centres of human habitation people thought there were plenty of bears around. \"In fact it's the shortage of food that's driving them into town. They're starving,\" he explained.In one river alone, the Fraser on Canada's west coast, 10 million sockeye salmon were expected back to spawn there this summer. Only one million turned up. Canada's Ministry of Environment announced in July that it would ban hunting of grizzly bears on an additional 470,000 hectares, bringing the total protected area for grizzlies and black bears to 1.9 million hectares.The news came after Jane Goodall, the renowned wildlife campaigner, added her voice to the campaign against the hunts, which are for trophies, not meat.\"I'm very distressed and shocked that the bear hunt \u2013 grizzly bear and black bear \u2013 is continuing in a country like Canada,\" she said. \"These bears are such amazing, magnificent creatures and there are so many secrets still to discover about their\u00a0lives.\"Grizzlies once roamed across most of North America and the Great Plains until European settlers gradually pushed them back. Only 1,000 remain in the contiguous US, where they are protected, but the number is less clear in the vast wilds of Canada and Alaska, where they are prized by hunters who shoot hundreds of the 350kg giants every year, providing a lucrative income for provincial governments that license the hunts. \"It's appalling wildlife management, considering the widespread concern for coastal bears at the moment,\" said McAllister.Indigenous groups have added their voice to the call to save the bears, pointing out that trophy hunting is against their traditions and threatens tourism, which is a vital source of income for the remote areas of Canada.But a senior biologist with the US National Wildlife Federation said the evidence remained anecdotal and called the reports \"alarmist\". Bears would not starve so quickly because of the decline in salmon while there were other food sources, such as berries, around, Sterling Miller told reporters. He said the long-term impact of the salmon decline on bears was a serious issue, but several years of data would need to be compiled to reveal a change in population trends.A report released last week showed species numbers to have fallen dramatically in the province of Alberta, where local officials have decided to suspend the annual hunting season despite intense lobbying from hunters. \"There's no question that bears are worse off now than 20 years ago \u2013 both in numbers and range,\" said Jim Pissot, of the group Defenders of Wildlife.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Conservation", "Canada", "World news", "Environment", "Animal welfare", "Americas"], "title": "Grizzly bear decline alarms conservationists in Canada"},{"date": "2009-09-30T15:29:18Z", "country": "canada", "content": "They will be watching Juan Carlos Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt very closely at his jail in Vermont.The last time the silver-tongued Colombian conman with a taste for the high life was locked up he walked out of a British prison after persuading the authorities to let him go to the dentist on his own.But after illegally crossing the border from Canada, the man who British police have likened to the legendary US conman Frank Abagnale, played by Leonardo DiCaprio in the film Catch Me If You Can, now faces the prospect of up to eight countries and the US state of Nevada asking for his extradition.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt, 33, is believed to have stolen at least $1m (\u00a3625,000) across the globe including more than \u00a3150,000 in Britain by conning his way into hotel rooms and clearing out safes as well as more routine fraud.The Colombian has at least 10 identities and has been pursued in Canada, Colombia, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Thailand and Venezuela. He's been convicted of larceny in Virginia and New York and credit card fraud in Florida, and deported from the US three times.His earliest known con was to be found standing on the runway of Miami airport claiming to be a 13-year-old orphan who had clung to the undercarriage of a flight from Colombia. That unlikely story generated an outpouring of sympathy and gifts, and tens of thousands of dollars in donations to a support fund. After he fled with the cash, it emerged that Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was 17 years old with two healthy parents.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was known in Britain as Gonzalo Zapater Vives. He was detained there in 1998 following a series of burglaries but jumped bail. When he was finally picked up again in Mayfair in 2004 after an off duty policeman spotted him in a supermarket, the Colombian was tried and jailed for burglaries at the Dorchester Hotel and the Mandarin Oriental Hotel.The detective who arrested him, Andy Swindells, described Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt as a \"highly accomplished liar\" who staked out high class hotels, identified wealthy victims and waited for them to leave their rooms. Then he persuaded hotel staff to let him in, and once there would call security claiming to have forgotten the key or security code to the safe. Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt walked out with money, jewels and passports.He was sentenced to 3\u00bd years in prison but served only two months at Standford Hill open prison on the Isle of Sheppey before being allowed out on his own for a dental appointment. He never returned.The Colombian was arrested a few weeks later in Dublin for theft, served prison time and was ordered extradited to France. Then he disappeared again.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was detained by US border guards earlier this month after a tipoff as he waited for a taxi at a petrol station. He tried to persuade the officials that he had wandered across the frontier accidentally after his car broke down. But the border guards took him in to custody as a suspected illegal immigrant until his fingerprints revealed him as the elusive conman.", "tags": ["US news", "Colombia", "UK news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "International conman Juan Carlos Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt captured at US-Canada border"},{"date": "2009-09-19T23:05:19Z", "country": "canada", "content": "First it was the giant panda, then the polar bear, now it seems that the grizzly bear is the latest species to face impending disaster.A furious row has erupted in Canada with conservationists desperately lobbying the government to suspend the annual bear-hunting season following reports of a sudden drop in the numbers of wild bears spotted on salmon streams and key coastal areas where they would normally be feeding.The government has promised to order a count of bears, but not until after this year's autumn trophy hunts have taken place. It has enraged ecology groups which say that a dearth of salmon stocks may be responsible for many bears starving in their dens during hibernation. The female grizzlies have their cubs during winter after gorging themselves in September on the fish fats that sustain them through the following months.\"I've never seen bears hungry in the fall before, but last year they were starving,\" said British Columbian wildlife guide and photographer Doug Neasloss. \"I noticed in the spring there weren't as many bears coming out, but I felt it was premature to jump to conclusions.\" But now, he said, \"there just aren't any bears. It's scary.\"It was the same story, he said, from other guides over 16 rivers where once they would have been encountering dozens of grizzly bears. \"There has been a huge drop in numbers. I've never experienced anything this bad.\" Reports from stream walkers, who monitor salmon streams across the vast territories, have been consistent, according to the conservation group Pacific Wild \u2013 no bears, and more worryingly, no bear cubs.\"There are just no bears out there, I'm hearing that from every side now,\" said Ian McAllister from Pacific Wild. He said that because a few grizzlies have been wandering close to centres of human habitation people thought there were plenty of bears around. \"In fact it's the shortage of food that's driving them into town. They're starving,\" he explained.In one river alone, the Fraser on Canada's west coast, 10 million sockeye salmon were expected back to spawn there this summer. Only one million turned up. Canada's Ministry of Environment announced in July that it would ban hunting of grizzly bears on an additional 470,000 hectares, bringing the total protected area for grizzlies and black bears to 1.9 million hectares.The news came after Jane Goodall, the renowned wildlife campaigner, added her voice to the campaign against the hunts, which are for trophies, not meat.\"I'm very distressed and shocked that the bear hunt \u2013 grizzly bear and black bear \u2013 is continuing in a country like Canada,\" she said. \"These bears are such amazing, magnificent creatures and there are so many secrets still to discover about their\u00a0lives.\"Grizzlies once roamed across most of North America and the Great Plains until European settlers gradually pushed them back. Only 1,000 remain in the contiguous US, where they are protected, but the number is less clear in the vast wilds of Canada and Alaska, where they are prized by hunters who shoot hundreds of the 350kg giants every year, providing a lucrative income for provincial governments that license the hunts. \"It's appalling wildlife management, considering the widespread concern for coastal bears at the moment,\" said McAllister.Indigenous groups have added their voice to the call to save the bears, pointing out that trophy hunting is against their traditions and threatens tourism, which is a vital source of income for the remote areas of Canada.But a senior biologist with the US National Wildlife Federation said the evidence remained anecdotal and called the reports \"alarmist\". Bears would not starve so quickly because of the decline in salmon while there were other food sources, such as berries, around, Sterling Miller told reporters. He said the long-term impact of the salmon decline on bears was a serious issue, but several years of data would need to be compiled to reveal a change in population trends.A report released last week showed species numbers to have fallen dramatically in the province of Alberta, where local officials have decided to suspend the annual hunting season despite intense lobbying from hunters. \"There's no question that bears are worse off now than 20 years ago \u2013 both in numbers and range,\" said Jim Pissot, of the group Defenders of Wildlife.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Conservation", "Canada", "World news", "Environment", "Animal welfare", "Americas"], "title": "Grizzly bear decline alarms conservationists in Canada"},{"date": "2009-09-07T13:19:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Scottish transport operator FirstGroup has been accused by Canada's government of acting like a \"bullying multinational\" by slashing rural routes on its Greyhound Canada bus network, in a cost-cutting move that risks leaving far-flung towns bereft of regular links to the rest of the country.Greyhound, which was bought by FirstGroup as part of its $3.6bn (\u00a32.2bn) takeover of the US group Laidlaw two years ago, has announced that it intends to withdraw from a large chunk of Canada, including the province of Manitoba and north-western parts of Ontario. Without government support to cover losses, the company said it might go further by cutting services in western Canada, which could include routes to cities such as Vancouver, Calgary and Edmonton.Greyhound wants a public subsidy of at least C$15m (\u00a38.5m) to cover losses on less popular routes, after a drop in passenger numbers in outlying areas of some 15% over a year. But its actions have sparked complaints from smaller towns which say that, hundreds of miles from the nearest city, they depend on bus services as a lifeline.In the town of Terrace Bay, more than 700 miles from Toronto on the north shore of Lake Superior, a Greyhound service has been the only mode of public transport since a rail link was discontinued 15 years ago. Daily newspapers and regular packages arrive on Greyhound buses and the nearest major airport, Thunder Bay, is two and a half hours' drive away.Michael King, the mayor of Terrace Bay, told the Guardian: \"For us to lose buses through this whole area would leave us completely isolated with no rail, no air and no type of ground transport that people could use.\"The town is on a main Trans-Canada highway but not all its 1,800 residents have cars. King said: \"We're not remote \u2013 we're on a main highway -\u2013 but a lot of our residents rely on the buses to get to doctors' appointments with specialists or to get to the major cities.\"Since taking ownership of Greyhound, FirstGroup has sought to modernise the famous long-distance bus brand. The company has pumped in capital to upgrade coaches and recently announced plans to bring Greyhound buses to Britain. But the business has suffered in recession \u2013 in January, FirstGroup revealed that Greyhound revenues were down 4.5% in the final quarter of 2008.Greyhound has complained that a highly regulated structure gives it little leeway in adjusting service levels in Canada. It said it has been left with an \"all or nothing\" choice of either eliminating all services in certain areas or running them at an unsustainable level. The company has asked the country's federal government to bring together provincial authorities in order to agree on a compromise within the next 30 to 90 days. But Canada's transport ministry has accused FirstGroup of brinkmanship. A spokesman said: \"Greyhound is a multinational and their actions are heavy-handed. They're an attempt to bully the provinces of Manitoba and Ontario.\"A spokesman at FirstGroup's Aberdeen head office said the decision to withdraw services had been a difficult one: \"At a time of falling passenger demand and a significantly weaker economic backdrop, it is neither economically nor environmentally sustainable to continue to run Greyhound Canada services on some routes.\"The firm's Canadian operation suffered a drop in passengers over security fears last year arising from a gruesome murder in which a passenger was beheaded and cannibalised by a schizophrenic man on a Greyhound bus near Winnipeg.\u2022 This article was amended on 9 September 2009. The original referred to Alberta when it meant Calgary. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["FirstGroup", "Business", "Travel & leisure", "Coach travel", "Travel", "World news", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Canada criticises FirstGroup over plans to withdraw rural bus services"},{"date": "2009-09-30T15:29:18Z", "country": "canada", "content": "They will be watching Juan Carlos Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt very closely at his jail in Vermont.The last time the silver-tongued Colombian conman with a taste for the high life was locked up he walked out of a British prison after persuading the authorities to let him go to the dentist on his own.But after illegally crossing the border from Canada, the man who British police have likened to the legendary US conman Frank Abagnale, played by Leonardo DiCaprio in the film Catch Me If You Can, now faces the prospect of up to eight countries and the US state of Nevada asking for his extradition.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt, 33, is believed to have stolen at least $1m (\u00a3625,000) across the globe including more than \u00a3150,000 in Britain by conning his way into hotel rooms and clearing out safes as well as more routine fraud.The Colombian has at least 10 identities and has been pursued in Canada, Colombia, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Thailand and Venezuela. He's been convicted of larceny in Virginia and New York and credit card fraud in Florida, and deported from the US three times.His earliest known con was to be found standing on the runway of Miami airport claiming to be a 13-year-old orphan who had clung to the undercarriage of a flight from Colombia. That unlikely story generated an outpouring of sympathy and gifts, and tens of thousands of dollars in donations to a support fund. After he fled with the cash, it emerged that Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was 17 years old with two healthy parents.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was known in Britain as Gonzalo Zapater Vives. He was detained there in 1998 following a series of burglaries but jumped bail. When he was finally picked up again in Mayfair in 2004 after an off duty policeman spotted him in a supermarket, the Colombian was tried and jailed for burglaries at the Dorchester Hotel and the Mandarin Oriental Hotel.The detective who arrested him, Andy Swindells, described Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt as a \"highly accomplished liar\" who staked out high class hotels, identified wealthy victims and waited for them to leave their rooms. Then he persuaded hotel staff to let him in, and once there would call security claiming to have forgotten the key or security code to the safe. Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt walked out with money, jewels and passports.He was sentenced to 3\u00bd years in prison but served only two months at Standford Hill open prison on the Isle of Sheppey before being allowed out on his own for a dental appointment. He never returned.The Colombian was arrested a few weeks later in Dublin for theft, served prison time and was ordered extradited to France. Then he disappeared again.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was detained by US border guards earlier this month after a tipoff as he waited for a taxi at a petrol station. He tried to persuade the officials that he had wandered across the frontier accidentally after his car broke down. But the border guards took him in to custody as a suspected illegal immigrant until his fingerprints revealed him as the elusive conman.", "tags": ["US news", "Colombia", "UK news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "International conman Juan Carlos Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt captured at US-Canada border"},{"date": "2009-09-19T23:05:19Z", "country": "canada", "content": "First it was the giant panda, then the polar bear, now it seems that the grizzly bear is the latest species to face impending disaster.A furious row has erupted in Canada with conservationists desperately lobbying the government to suspend the annual bear-hunting season following reports of a sudden drop in the numbers of wild bears spotted on salmon streams and key coastal areas where they would normally be feeding.The government has promised to order a count of bears, but not until after this year's autumn trophy hunts have taken place. It has enraged ecology groups which say that a dearth of salmon stocks may be responsible for many bears starving in their dens during hibernation. The female grizzlies have their cubs during winter after gorging themselves in September on the fish fats that sustain them through the following months.\"I've never seen bears hungry in the fall before, but last year they were starving,\" said British Columbian wildlife guide and photographer Doug Neasloss. \"I noticed in the spring there weren't as many bears coming out, but I felt it was premature to jump to conclusions.\" But now, he said, \"there just aren't any bears. It's scary.\"It was the same story, he said, from other guides over 16 rivers where once they would have been encountering dozens of grizzly bears. \"There has been a huge drop in numbers. I've never experienced anything this bad.\" Reports from stream walkers, who monitor salmon streams across the vast territories, have been consistent, according to the conservation group Pacific Wild \u2013 no bears, and more worryingly, no bear cubs.\"There are just no bears out there, I'm hearing that from every side now,\" said Ian McAllister from Pacific Wild. He said that because a few grizzlies have been wandering close to centres of human habitation people thought there were plenty of bears around. \"In fact it's the shortage of food that's driving them into town. They're starving,\" he explained.In one river alone, the Fraser on Canada's west coast, 10 million sockeye salmon were expected back to spawn there this summer. Only one million turned up. Canada's Ministry of Environment announced in July that it would ban hunting of grizzly bears on an additional 470,000 hectares, bringing the total protected area for grizzlies and black bears to 1.9 million hectares.The news came after Jane Goodall, the renowned wildlife campaigner, added her voice to the campaign against the hunts, which are for trophies, not meat.\"I'm very distressed and shocked that the bear hunt \u2013 grizzly bear and black bear \u2013 is continuing in a country like Canada,\" she said. \"These bears are such amazing, magnificent creatures and there are so many secrets still to discover about their\u00a0lives.\"Grizzlies once roamed across most of North America and the Great Plains until European settlers gradually pushed them back. Only 1,000 remain in the contiguous US, where they are protected, but the number is less clear in the vast wilds of Canada and Alaska, where they are prized by hunters who shoot hundreds of the 350kg giants every year, providing a lucrative income for provincial governments that license the hunts. \"It's appalling wildlife management, considering the widespread concern for coastal bears at the moment,\" said McAllister.Indigenous groups have added their voice to the call to save the bears, pointing out that trophy hunting is against their traditions and threatens tourism, which is a vital source of income for the remote areas of Canada.But a senior biologist with the US National Wildlife Federation said the evidence remained anecdotal and called the reports \"alarmist\". Bears would not starve so quickly because of the decline in salmon while there were other food sources, such as berries, around, Sterling Miller told reporters. He said the long-term impact of the salmon decline on bears was a serious issue, but several years of data would need to be compiled to reveal a change in population trends.A report released last week showed species numbers to have fallen dramatically in the province of Alberta, where local officials have decided to suspend the annual hunting season despite intense lobbying from hunters. \"There's no question that bears are worse off now than 20 years ago \u2013 both in numbers and range,\" said Jim Pissot, of the group Defenders of Wildlife.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Conservation", "Canada", "World news", "Environment", "Animal welfare", "Americas"], "title": "Grizzly bear decline alarms conservationists in Canada"},{"date": "2009-09-07T13:19:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Scottish transport operator FirstGroup has been accused by Canada's government of acting like a \"bullying multinational\" by slashing rural routes on its Greyhound Canada bus network, in a cost-cutting move that risks leaving far-flung towns bereft of regular links to the rest of the country.Greyhound, which was bought by FirstGroup as part of its $3.6bn (\u00a32.2bn) takeover of the US group Laidlaw two years ago, has announced that it intends to withdraw from a large chunk of Canada, including the province of Manitoba and north-western parts of Ontario. Without government support to cover losses, the company said it might go further by cutting services in western Canada, which could include routes to cities such as Vancouver, Calgary and Edmonton.Greyhound wants a public subsidy of at least C$15m (\u00a38.5m) to cover losses on less popular routes, after a drop in passenger numbers in outlying areas of some 15% over a year. But its actions have sparked complaints from smaller towns which say that, hundreds of miles from the nearest city, they depend on bus services as a lifeline.In the town of Terrace Bay, more than 700 miles from Toronto on the north shore of Lake Superior, a Greyhound service has been the only mode of public transport since a rail link was discontinued 15 years ago. Daily newspapers and regular packages arrive on Greyhound buses and the nearest major airport, Thunder Bay, is two and a half hours' drive away.Michael King, the mayor of Terrace Bay, told the Guardian: \"For us to lose buses through this whole area would leave us completely isolated with no rail, no air and no type of ground transport that people could use.\"The town is on a main Trans-Canada highway but not all its 1,800 residents have cars. King said: \"We're not remote \u2013 we're on a main highway -\u2013 but a lot of our residents rely on the buses to get to doctors' appointments with specialists or to get to the major cities.\"Since taking ownership of Greyhound, FirstGroup has sought to modernise the famous long-distance bus brand. The company has pumped in capital to upgrade coaches and recently announced plans to bring Greyhound buses to Britain. But the business has suffered in recession \u2013 in January, FirstGroup revealed that Greyhound revenues were down 4.5% in the final quarter of 2008.Greyhound has complained that a highly regulated structure gives it little leeway in adjusting service levels in Canada. It said it has been left with an \"all or nothing\" choice of either eliminating all services in certain areas or running them at an unsustainable level. The company has asked the country's federal government to bring together provincial authorities in order to agree on a compromise within the next 30 to 90 days. But Canada's transport ministry has accused FirstGroup of brinkmanship. A spokesman said: \"Greyhound is a multinational and their actions are heavy-handed. They're an attempt to bully the provinces of Manitoba and Ontario.\"A spokesman at FirstGroup's Aberdeen head office said the decision to withdraw services had been a difficult one: \"At a time of falling passenger demand and a significantly weaker economic backdrop, it is neither economically nor environmentally sustainable to continue to run Greyhound Canada services on some routes.\"The firm's Canadian operation suffered a drop in passengers over security fears last year arising from a gruesome murder in which a passenger was beheaded and cannibalised by a schizophrenic man on a Greyhound bus near Winnipeg.\u2022 This article was amended on 9 September 2009. The original referred to Alberta when it meant Calgary. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["FirstGroup", "Business", "Travel & leisure", "Coach travel", "Travel", "World news", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Canada criticises FirstGroup over plans to withdraw rural bus services"},{"date": "2009-09-01T20:14:07Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Asylum seeker Brandon Huntley claimed he had been persecuted, abused and repeatedly stabbed. But it was the reason he gave for his ordeal that caused a diplomatic rift today. Huntley is South African \u2013 and white.Canada's decision to grant him refugee status because of his colour prompted accusations of racism from the South African government and a fresh bout of soul searching in a country still scarred by the legacy of apartheid. Some South African whites say they have become a persecuted minority.Huntley, 31, from Cape Town, made his asylum claim in April last year. Citing violent crime and racism, he told the Canadian immigration and refugee board that he lived in fear of returning to South Africa. He said he had been attacked seven times by black South Africans, including four stabbings, and was called a \"white dog\" and \"settler\".\"There's a hatred of what we did to them and it's all about the colour of your skin,\" Huntley reportedly said.The immigration board, in Ottawa, found \"clear and convincing proof\" Huntley was persecuted for being white. William Davis, the board's chairman, ruled he \"was a victim because of his race rather than a victim of criminality\" and would \"stick out like a sore thumb due to his colour in any part of the country\".Davis added that the irrigation sprinkler salesman's evidence showed \"a picture of indifference and inability or unwillingness\" from the South African government to protect white citizens. He added: \"Persecution of white South Africans by African South Africans [is] a common event today in South Africa.\" Huntley's lawyer, Robert Kaplan, told the Times of South Africa: \"The judgment was a direct criticism of the South African government.\"There was an angry response from South African's governing African National Congress. \"The ANC views the granting by Canada of a refugee status to South African citizen Brandon Huntley on the grounds that Africans would 'persecute' him, as racist,\" the party said in a statement. \"We find the claim by Huntley to have been attacked seven times by Africans due to his skin colour without any police intervention sensational and alarming.Canada's reasoning for granting Huntley refugee status can only serve to perpetuate racism.\"Ronnie Mamoepa, South Africa's home affairs spokesman, said the government was \"disgusted\" by the ruling, describing it as \"baseless allegations against our people and our country\".\"It would have been courteous for the Canadian government to allow the South African government to respond to the allegations,\" he added.Race is seldom far from the public agenda in South Africa. Last month, Julius Malema, the firebrand leader of the ANC's youth league, was criticised after complaining that white people did not attend the welcoming home ceremony for world champion athlete Caster Semenya.The official unemployment rate for white South Africans is 4.6% percent, compared with 27.9% percent for black South Africans despite an affirmative action programme.Frans Cronje, deputy director of the South African Institute of Race Relations, said he sympathised with Huntley as an individual but there were myths around white victimhood. \"If he has been stabbed so many times, I can understand his state of mind,\" he said. \"The impression of persecution is very real but it doesn't stand up to scrutiny.\"He added: \"We have found no evidence that white South Africans are targeted because of race. The truth is that black South Africans are far and away more likely to be victims of violent crime. There are problems with the criminal justice system but again blacks are most likely to suffer.\"The row provided much sport for the satirical online newspaper Hayibo.com. Its home page said yesterday: \"Immigration authorities in England have warned Canada to expect a deluge of young, unemployable, white South Africans to arrive in their country after an immigration and refugee panel, made up of white folk who had never been to Africa, bought into former Cape Town resident Brandon Huntley's paranoia and granted him refugee status. 'There won't be enough pubs and restaurants in Vancouver and Toronto to employ them all,' said an unnamed Home Office source.\"", "tags": ["Race issues", "Canada", "South Africa", "World news", "Africa", "Americas"], "title": "Row as Canada gives asylum to white South African"},{"date": "2009-09-30T15:29:18Z", "country": "canada", "content": "They will be watching Juan Carlos Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt very closely at his jail in Vermont.The last time the silver-tongued Colombian conman with a taste for the high life was locked up he walked out of a British prison after persuading the authorities to let him go to the dentist on his own.But after illegally crossing the border from Canada, the man who British police have likened to the legendary US conman Frank Abagnale, played by Leonardo DiCaprio in the film Catch Me If You Can, now faces the prospect of up to eight countries and the US state of Nevada asking for his extradition.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt, 33, is believed to have stolen at least $1m (\u00a3625,000) across the globe including more than \u00a3150,000 in Britain by conning his way into hotel rooms and clearing out safes as well as more routine fraud.The Colombian has at least 10 identities and has been pursued in Canada, Colombia, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Thailand and Venezuela. He's been convicted of larceny in Virginia and New York and credit card fraud in Florida, and deported from the US three times.His earliest known con was to be found standing on the runway of Miami airport claiming to be a 13-year-old orphan who had clung to the undercarriage of a flight from Colombia. That unlikely story generated an outpouring of sympathy and gifts, and tens of thousands of dollars in donations to a support fund. After he fled with the cash, it emerged that Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was 17 years old with two healthy parents.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was known in Britain as Gonzalo Zapater Vives. He was detained there in 1998 following a series of burglaries but jumped bail. When he was finally picked up again in Mayfair in 2004 after an off duty policeman spotted him in a supermarket, the Colombian was tried and jailed for burglaries at the Dorchester Hotel and the Mandarin Oriental Hotel.The detective who arrested him, Andy Swindells, described Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt as a \"highly accomplished liar\" who staked out high class hotels, identified wealthy victims and waited for them to leave their rooms. Then he persuaded hotel staff to let him in, and once there would call security claiming to have forgotten the key or security code to the safe. Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt walked out with money, jewels and passports.He was sentenced to 3\u00bd years in prison but served only two months at Standford Hill open prison on the Isle of Sheppey before being allowed out on his own for a dental appointment. He never returned.The Colombian was arrested a few weeks later in Dublin for theft, served prison time and was ordered extradited to France. Then he disappeared again.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was detained by US border guards earlier this month after a tipoff as he waited for a taxi at a petrol station. He tried to persuade the officials that he had wandered across the frontier accidentally after his car broke down. But the border guards took him in to custody as a suspected illegal immigrant until his fingerprints revealed him as the elusive conman.", "tags": ["US news", "Colombia", "UK news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "International conman Juan Carlos Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt captured at US-Canada border"},{"date": "2009-09-19T23:05:19Z", "country": "canada", "content": "First it was the giant panda, then the polar bear, now it seems that the grizzly bear is the latest species to face impending disaster.A furious row has erupted in Canada with conservationists desperately lobbying the government to suspend the annual bear-hunting season following reports of a sudden drop in the numbers of wild bears spotted on salmon streams and key coastal areas where they would normally be feeding.The government has promised to order a count of bears, but not until after this year's autumn trophy hunts have taken place. It has enraged ecology groups which say that a dearth of salmon stocks may be responsible for many bears starving in their dens during hibernation. The female grizzlies have their cubs during winter after gorging themselves in September on the fish fats that sustain them through the following months.\"I've never seen bears hungry in the fall before, but last year they were starving,\" said British Columbian wildlife guide and photographer Doug Neasloss. \"I noticed in the spring there weren't as many bears coming out, but I felt it was premature to jump to conclusions.\" But now, he said, \"there just aren't any bears. It's scary.\"It was the same story, he said, from other guides over 16 rivers where once they would have been encountering dozens of grizzly bears. \"There has been a huge drop in numbers. I've never experienced anything this bad.\" Reports from stream walkers, who monitor salmon streams across the vast territories, have been consistent, according to the conservation group Pacific Wild \u2013 no bears, and more worryingly, no bear cubs.\"There are just no bears out there, I'm hearing that from every side now,\" said Ian McAllister from Pacific Wild. He said that because a few grizzlies have been wandering close to centres of human habitation people thought there were plenty of bears around. \"In fact it's the shortage of food that's driving them into town. They're starving,\" he explained.In one river alone, the Fraser on Canada's west coast, 10 million sockeye salmon were expected back to spawn there this summer. Only one million turned up. Canada's Ministry of Environment announced in July that it would ban hunting of grizzly bears on an additional 470,000 hectares, bringing the total protected area for grizzlies and black bears to 1.9 million hectares.The news came after Jane Goodall, the renowned wildlife campaigner, added her voice to the campaign against the hunts, which are for trophies, not meat.\"I'm very distressed and shocked that the bear hunt \u2013 grizzly bear and black bear \u2013 is continuing in a country like Canada,\" she said. \"These bears are such amazing, magnificent creatures and there are so many secrets still to discover about their\u00a0lives.\"Grizzlies once roamed across most of North America and the Great Plains until European settlers gradually pushed them back. Only 1,000 remain in the contiguous US, where they are protected, but the number is less clear in the vast wilds of Canada and Alaska, where they are prized by hunters who shoot hundreds of the 350kg giants every year, providing a lucrative income for provincial governments that license the hunts. \"It's appalling wildlife management, considering the widespread concern for coastal bears at the moment,\" said McAllister.Indigenous groups have added their voice to the call to save the bears, pointing out that trophy hunting is against their traditions and threatens tourism, which is a vital source of income for the remote areas of Canada.But a senior biologist with the US National Wildlife Federation said the evidence remained anecdotal and called the reports \"alarmist\". Bears would not starve so quickly because of the decline in salmon while there were other food sources, such as berries, around, Sterling Miller told reporters. He said the long-term impact of the salmon decline on bears was a serious issue, but several years of data would need to be compiled to reveal a change in population trends.A report released last week showed species numbers to have fallen dramatically in the province of Alberta, where local officials have decided to suspend the annual hunting season despite intense lobbying from hunters. \"There's no question that bears are worse off now than 20 years ago \u2013 both in numbers and range,\" said Jim Pissot, of the group Defenders of Wildlife.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Conservation", "Canada", "World news", "Environment", "Animal welfare", "Americas"], "title": "Grizzly bear decline alarms conservationists in Canada"},{"date": "2009-09-07T13:19:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Scottish transport operator FirstGroup has been accused by Canada's government of acting like a \"bullying multinational\" by slashing rural routes on its Greyhound Canada bus network, in a cost-cutting move that risks leaving far-flung towns bereft of regular links to the rest of the country.Greyhound, which was bought by FirstGroup as part of its $3.6bn (\u00a32.2bn) takeover of the US group Laidlaw two years ago, has announced that it intends to withdraw from a large chunk of Canada, including the province of Manitoba and north-western parts of Ontario. Without government support to cover losses, the company said it might go further by cutting services in western Canada, which could include routes to cities such as Vancouver, Calgary and Edmonton.Greyhound wants a public subsidy of at least C$15m (\u00a38.5m) to cover losses on less popular routes, after a drop in passenger numbers in outlying areas of some 15% over a year. But its actions have sparked complaints from smaller towns which say that, hundreds of miles from the nearest city, they depend on bus services as a lifeline.In the town of Terrace Bay, more than 700 miles from Toronto on the north shore of Lake Superior, a Greyhound service has been the only mode of public transport since a rail link was discontinued 15 years ago. Daily newspapers and regular packages arrive on Greyhound buses and the nearest major airport, Thunder Bay, is two and a half hours' drive away.Michael King, the mayor of Terrace Bay, told the Guardian: \"For us to lose buses through this whole area would leave us completely isolated with no rail, no air and no type of ground transport that people could use.\"The town is on a main Trans-Canada highway but not all its 1,800 residents have cars. King said: \"We're not remote \u2013 we're on a main highway -\u2013 but a lot of our residents rely on the buses to get to doctors' appointments with specialists or to get to the major cities.\"Since taking ownership of Greyhound, FirstGroup has sought to modernise the famous long-distance bus brand. The company has pumped in capital to upgrade coaches and recently announced plans to bring Greyhound buses to Britain. But the business has suffered in recession \u2013 in January, FirstGroup revealed that Greyhound revenues were down 4.5% in the final quarter of 2008.Greyhound has complained that a highly regulated structure gives it little leeway in adjusting service levels in Canada. It said it has been left with an \"all or nothing\" choice of either eliminating all services in certain areas or running them at an unsustainable level. The company has asked the country's federal government to bring together provincial authorities in order to agree on a compromise within the next 30 to 90 days. But Canada's transport ministry has accused FirstGroup of brinkmanship. A spokesman said: \"Greyhound is a multinational and their actions are heavy-handed. They're an attempt to bully the provinces of Manitoba and Ontario.\"A spokesman at FirstGroup's Aberdeen head office said the decision to withdraw services had been a difficult one: \"At a time of falling passenger demand and a significantly weaker economic backdrop, it is neither economically nor environmentally sustainable to continue to run Greyhound Canada services on some routes.\"The firm's Canadian operation suffered a drop in passengers over security fears last year arising from a gruesome murder in which a passenger was beheaded and cannibalised by a schizophrenic man on a Greyhound bus near Winnipeg.\u2022 This article was amended on 9 September 2009. The original referred to Alberta when it meant Calgary. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["FirstGroup", "Business", "Travel & leisure", "Coach travel", "Travel", "World news", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Canada criticises FirstGroup over plans to withdraw rural bus services"},{"date": "2009-09-01T20:14:07Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Asylum seeker Brandon Huntley claimed he had been persecuted, abused and repeatedly stabbed. But it was the reason he gave for his ordeal that caused a diplomatic rift today. Huntley is South African \u2013 and white.Canada's decision to grant him refugee status because of his colour prompted accusations of racism from the South African government and a fresh bout of soul searching in a country still scarred by the legacy of apartheid. Some South African whites say they have become a persecuted minority.Huntley, 31, from Cape Town, made his asylum claim in April last year. Citing violent crime and racism, he told the Canadian immigration and refugee board that he lived in fear of returning to South Africa. He said he had been attacked seven times by black South Africans, including four stabbings, and was called a \"white dog\" and \"settler\".\"There's a hatred of what we did to them and it's all about the colour of your skin,\" Huntley reportedly said.The immigration board, in Ottawa, found \"clear and convincing proof\" Huntley was persecuted for being white. William Davis, the board's chairman, ruled he \"was a victim because of his race rather than a victim of criminality\" and would \"stick out like a sore thumb due to his colour in any part of the country\".Davis added that the irrigation sprinkler salesman's evidence showed \"a picture of indifference and inability or unwillingness\" from the South African government to protect white citizens. He added: \"Persecution of white South Africans by African South Africans [is] a common event today in South Africa.\" Huntley's lawyer, Robert Kaplan, told the Times of South Africa: \"The judgment was a direct criticism of the South African government.\"There was an angry response from South African's governing African National Congress. \"The ANC views the granting by Canada of a refugee status to South African citizen Brandon Huntley on the grounds that Africans would 'persecute' him, as racist,\" the party said in a statement. \"We find the claim by Huntley to have been attacked seven times by Africans due to his skin colour without any police intervention sensational and alarming.Canada's reasoning for granting Huntley refugee status can only serve to perpetuate racism.\"Ronnie Mamoepa, South Africa's home affairs spokesman, said the government was \"disgusted\" by the ruling, describing it as \"baseless allegations against our people and our country\".\"It would have been courteous for the Canadian government to allow the South African government to respond to the allegations,\" he added.Race is seldom far from the public agenda in South Africa. Last month, Julius Malema, the firebrand leader of the ANC's youth league, was criticised after complaining that white people did not attend the welcoming home ceremony for world champion athlete Caster Semenya.The official unemployment rate for white South Africans is 4.6% percent, compared with 27.9% percent for black South Africans despite an affirmative action programme.Frans Cronje, deputy director of the South African Institute of Race Relations, said he sympathised with Huntley as an individual but there were myths around white victimhood. \"If he has been stabbed so many times, I can understand his state of mind,\" he said. \"The impression of persecution is very real but it doesn't stand up to scrutiny.\"He added: \"We have found no evidence that white South Africans are targeted because of race. The truth is that black South Africans are far and away more likely to be victims of violent crime. There are problems with the criminal justice system but again blacks are most likely to suffer.\"The row provided much sport for the satirical online newspaper Hayibo.com. Its home page said yesterday: \"Immigration authorities in England have warned Canada to expect a deluge of young, unemployable, white South Africans to arrive in their country after an immigration and refugee panel, made up of white folk who had never been to Africa, bought into former Cape Town resident Brandon Huntley's paranoia and granted him refugee status. 'There won't be enough pubs and restaurants in Vancouver and Toronto to employ them all,' said an unnamed Home Office source.\"", "tags": ["Race issues", "Canada", "South Africa", "World news", "Africa", "Americas"], "title": "Row as Canada gives asylum to white South African"},{"date": "2009-08-21T11:17:52Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A manhunt is under way for a US reality TV show contestant believed to have fled to Canada after killing his ex-wife.Ryan Jenkins, who was a contestant on the VH1 show Megan Wants a Millionaire, was charged today with the murder of former swimsuit model Jasmine Fiore. The couple married in a Las Vegas wedding this year.Police said Jenkins had removed Fiore's teeth and fingers in an apparent attempt to impede efforts to identify the naked body, which was found stuffed in a suitcase in a California litter bin over the weekend. A preliminary coroner's report indicated she had been strangled.Jenkins had reported her missing on Saturday night and then vanished after the body was found. Authorities suspect he drove 1,000 miles to Washington state and then hopped in a boat to a peninsula on the border, where he walked into Canada. Canadian police said ground, air and canine units were involved in the search.\"At this time, although we believe he crossed the border, we're not 100% sure of that,\" a US marshals chief inspector, Thomas Hession, said.\"There will be no stone unturned and we'll look under every rock for him.\" Police believe he may be armed with a handgun.A car and empty boat trailer belonging to the 32-year-old native of Calgary, Canada, were found at a marina in the remote north-west Washington town of Blaine.Jenkins, variously described as an architect, real estate developer and investment banker, appeared in at least three episodes of Megan Wants a Millionaire, about a woman seeking to land a wealthy bachelor by putting suitors through their paces.The couple had been fighting in recent months, according to Fiore's mother. Prosecutors said the two checked into a San Diego hotel on 13 August and Jenkins checked out the next morning. Fiore was not seen alive again.Police received a report yesterday that a man matching Jenkins's description had arrived by boat at Point Roberts, Washington, about 10 miles from Blaine at the tip of a peninsula. The point is reachable by land only from Canada, and Jenkins is believed to have walked across the border from there.After taping for Megan Wants a Millionaire finished in early March, he met 28-year-old Fiore in a Las Vegas casino and the two got married on 18 March, said Fiore's mother, Lisa Lepore.But in May, \"they had a big blowout\", and fought because he was jealous of her ex-boyfriends, Lepore said. \"She had the marriage annulled.\"Fiore's ex-boyfriend Robert Hasman urged Jenkins's friends and family to help police find him.\"Ryan Jenkins is an animal, what he has done to Jasmine is unspeakable and it's just not right and I'd appreciate your help,\" he said at a news conference.If Jenkins is apprehended north of the border, authorities there could extradite him but only with assurances that he would not face the death penalty. Farrah Emami, a spokeswoman with the Orange County district attorney's office, said the death penalty issue had not been addressed yet. Prosecutors have recommended bail of $10m (\u00a36m).\"Mr Jenkins is considered dangerous, possibly armed, and has the financial means to hide anywhere in the world,\" said the Orange County district attorney, Tony Rackauckas. \"Anyone helping Mr Jenkins hide from the police may go to prison themselves.\"Court records show that Jenkins was charged in June in Clark county, Nevada, with \"battery constituting domestic violence\" for allegedly hitting Fiore in the arm and was due to be tried in December.Jenkins also has a criminal history in his home town of Calgary. He was sentenced to 15 months' probation in January 2007 on an unspecified assault charge, according to the Alberta ministry of justice. No further details were available.", "tags": ["US news", "World news"], "title": "Manhunt launched for US reality show contestant Ryan Jenkins"},{"date": "2009-09-30T15:29:18Z", "country": "canada", "content": "They will be watching Juan Carlos Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt very closely at his jail in Vermont.The last time the silver-tongued Colombian conman with a taste for the high life was locked up he walked out of a British prison after persuading the authorities to let him go to the dentist on his own.But after illegally crossing the border from Canada, the man who British police have likened to the legendary US conman Frank Abagnale, played by Leonardo DiCaprio in the film Catch Me If You Can, now faces the prospect of up to eight countries and the US state of Nevada asking for his extradition.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt, 33, is believed to have stolen at least $1m (\u00a3625,000) across the globe including more than \u00a3150,000 in Britain by conning his way into hotel rooms and clearing out safes as well as more routine fraud.The Colombian has at least 10 identities and has been pursued in Canada, Colombia, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Thailand and Venezuela. He's been convicted of larceny in Virginia and New York and credit card fraud in Florida, and deported from the US three times.His earliest known con was to be found standing on the runway of Miami airport claiming to be a 13-year-old orphan who had clung to the undercarriage of a flight from Colombia. That unlikely story generated an outpouring of sympathy and gifts, and tens of thousands of dollars in donations to a support fund. After he fled with the cash, it emerged that Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was 17 years old with two healthy parents.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was known in Britain as Gonzalo Zapater Vives. He was detained there in 1998 following a series of burglaries but jumped bail. When he was finally picked up again in Mayfair in 2004 after an off duty policeman spotted him in a supermarket, the Colombian was tried and jailed for burglaries at the Dorchester Hotel and the Mandarin Oriental Hotel.The detective who arrested him, Andy Swindells, described Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt as a \"highly accomplished liar\" who staked out high class hotels, identified wealthy victims and waited for them to leave their rooms. Then he persuaded hotel staff to let him in, and once there would call security claiming to have forgotten the key or security code to the safe. Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt walked out with money, jewels and passports.He was sentenced to 3\u00bd years in prison but served only two months at Standford Hill open prison on the Isle of Sheppey before being allowed out on his own for a dental appointment. He never returned.The Colombian was arrested a few weeks later in Dublin for theft, served prison time and was ordered extradited to France. Then he disappeared again.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was detained by US border guards earlier this month after a tipoff as he waited for a taxi at a petrol station. He tried to persuade the officials that he had wandered across the frontier accidentally after his car broke down. But the border guards took him in to custody as a suspected illegal immigrant until his fingerprints revealed him as the elusive conman.", "tags": ["US news", "Colombia", "UK news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "International conman Juan Carlos Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt captured at US-Canada border"},{"date": "2009-09-19T23:05:19Z", "country": "canada", "content": "First it was the giant panda, then the polar bear, now it seems that the grizzly bear is the latest species to face impending disaster.A furious row has erupted in Canada with conservationists desperately lobbying the government to suspend the annual bear-hunting season following reports of a sudden drop in the numbers of wild bears spotted on salmon streams and key coastal areas where they would normally be feeding.The government has promised to order a count of bears, but not until after this year's autumn trophy hunts have taken place. It has enraged ecology groups which say that a dearth of salmon stocks may be responsible for many bears starving in their dens during hibernation. The female grizzlies have their cubs during winter after gorging themselves in September on the fish fats that sustain them through the following months.\"I've never seen bears hungry in the fall before, but last year they were starving,\" said British Columbian wildlife guide and photographer Doug Neasloss. \"I noticed in the spring there weren't as many bears coming out, but I felt it was premature to jump to conclusions.\" But now, he said, \"there just aren't any bears. It's scary.\"It was the same story, he said, from other guides over 16 rivers where once they would have been encountering dozens of grizzly bears. \"There has been a huge drop in numbers. I've never experienced anything this bad.\" Reports from stream walkers, who monitor salmon streams across the vast territories, have been consistent, according to the conservation group Pacific Wild \u2013 no bears, and more worryingly, no bear cubs.\"There are just no bears out there, I'm hearing that from every side now,\" said Ian McAllister from Pacific Wild. He said that because a few grizzlies have been wandering close to centres of human habitation people thought there were plenty of bears around. \"In fact it's the shortage of food that's driving them into town. They're starving,\" he explained.In one river alone, the Fraser on Canada's west coast, 10 million sockeye salmon were expected back to spawn there this summer. Only one million turned up. Canada's Ministry of Environment announced in July that it would ban hunting of grizzly bears on an additional 470,000 hectares, bringing the total protected area for grizzlies and black bears to 1.9 million hectares.The news came after Jane Goodall, the renowned wildlife campaigner, added her voice to the campaign against the hunts, which are for trophies, not meat.\"I'm very distressed and shocked that the bear hunt \u2013 grizzly bear and black bear \u2013 is continuing in a country like Canada,\" she said. \"These bears are such amazing, magnificent creatures and there are so many secrets still to discover about their\u00a0lives.\"Grizzlies once roamed across most of North America and the Great Plains until European settlers gradually pushed them back. Only 1,000 remain in the contiguous US, where they are protected, but the number is less clear in the vast wilds of Canada and Alaska, where they are prized by hunters who shoot hundreds of the 350kg giants every year, providing a lucrative income for provincial governments that license the hunts. \"It's appalling wildlife management, considering the widespread concern for coastal bears at the moment,\" said McAllister.Indigenous groups have added their voice to the call to save the bears, pointing out that trophy hunting is against their traditions and threatens tourism, which is a vital source of income for the remote areas of Canada.But a senior biologist with the US National Wildlife Federation said the evidence remained anecdotal and called the reports \"alarmist\". Bears would not starve so quickly because of the decline in salmon while there were other food sources, such as berries, around, Sterling Miller told reporters. He said the long-term impact of the salmon decline on bears was a serious issue, but several years of data would need to be compiled to reveal a change in population trends.A report released last week showed species numbers to have fallen dramatically in the province of Alberta, where local officials have decided to suspend the annual hunting season despite intense lobbying from hunters. \"There's no question that bears are worse off now than 20 years ago \u2013 both in numbers and range,\" said Jim Pissot, of the group Defenders of Wildlife.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Conservation", "Canada", "World news", "Environment", "Animal welfare", "Americas"], "title": "Grizzly bear decline alarms conservationists in Canada"},{"date": "2009-09-07T13:19:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Scottish transport operator FirstGroup has been accused by Canada's government of acting like a \"bullying multinational\" by slashing rural routes on its Greyhound Canada bus network, in a cost-cutting move that risks leaving far-flung towns bereft of regular links to the rest of the country.Greyhound, which was bought by FirstGroup as part of its $3.6bn (\u00a32.2bn) takeover of the US group Laidlaw two years ago, has announced that it intends to withdraw from a large chunk of Canada, including the province of Manitoba and north-western parts of Ontario. Without government support to cover losses, the company said it might go further by cutting services in western Canada, which could include routes to cities such as Vancouver, Calgary and Edmonton.Greyhound wants a public subsidy of at least C$15m (\u00a38.5m) to cover losses on less popular routes, after a drop in passenger numbers in outlying areas of some 15% over a year. But its actions have sparked complaints from smaller towns which say that, hundreds of miles from the nearest city, they depend on bus services as a lifeline.In the town of Terrace Bay, more than 700 miles from Toronto on the north shore of Lake Superior, a Greyhound service has been the only mode of public transport since a rail link was discontinued 15 years ago. Daily newspapers and regular packages arrive on Greyhound buses and the nearest major airport, Thunder Bay, is two and a half hours' drive away.Michael King, the mayor of Terrace Bay, told the Guardian: \"For us to lose buses through this whole area would leave us completely isolated with no rail, no air and no type of ground transport that people could use.\"The town is on a main Trans-Canada highway but not all its 1,800 residents have cars. King said: \"We're not remote \u2013 we're on a main highway -\u2013 but a lot of our residents rely on the buses to get to doctors' appointments with specialists or to get to the major cities.\"Since taking ownership of Greyhound, FirstGroup has sought to modernise the famous long-distance bus brand. The company has pumped in capital to upgrade coaches and recently announced plans to bring Greyhound buses to Britain. But the business has suffered in recession \u2013 in January, FirstGroup revealed that Greyhound revenues were down 4.5% in the final quarter of 2008.Greyhound has complained that a highly regulated structure gives it little leeway in adjusting service levels in Canada. It said it has been left with an \"all or nothing\" choice of either eliminating all services in certain areas or running them at an unsustainable level. The company has asked the country's federal government to bring together provincial authorities in order to agree on a compromise within the next 30 to 90 days. But Canada's transport ministry has accused FirstGroup of brinkmanship. A spokesman said: \"Greyhound is a multinational and their actions are heavy-handed. They're an attempt to bully the provinces of Manitoba and Ontario.\"A spokesman at FirstGroup's Aberdeen head office said the decision to withdraw services had been a difficult one: \"At a time of falling passenger demand and a significantly weaker economic backdrop, it is neither economically nor environmentally sustainable to continue to run Greyhound Canada services on some routes.\"The firm's Canadian operation suffered a drop in passengers over security fears last year arising from a gruesome murder in which a passenger was beheaded and cannibalised by a schizophrenic man on a Greyhound bus near Winnipeg.\u2022 This article was amended on 9 September 2009. The original referred to Alberta when it meant Calgary. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["FirstGroup", "Business", "Travel & leisure", "Coach travel", "Travel", "World news", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Canada criticises FirstGroup over plans to withdraw rural bus services"},{"date": "2009-09-01T20:14:07Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Asylum seeker Brandon Huntley claimed he had been persecuted, abused and repeatedly stabbed. But it was the reason he gave for his ordeal that caused a diplomatic rift today. Huntley is South African \u2013 and white.Canada's decision to grant him refugee status because of his colour prompted accusations of racism from the South African government and a fresh bout of soul searching in a country still scarred by the legacy of apartheid. Some South African whites say they have become a persecuted minority.Huntley, 31, from Cape Town, made his asylum claim in April last year. Citing violent crime and racism, he told the Canadian immigration and refugee board that he lived in fear of returning to South Africa. He said he had been attacked seven times by black South Africans, including four stabbings, and was called a \"white dog\" and \"settler\".\"There's a hatred of what we did to them and it's all about the colour of your skin,\" Huntley reportedly said.The immigration board, in Ottawa, found \"clear and convincing proof\" Huntley was persecuted for being white. William Davis, the board's chairman, ruled he \"was a victim because of his race rather than a victim of criminality\" and would \"stick out like a sore thumb due to his colour in any part of the country\".Davis added that the irrigation sprinkler salesman's evidence showed \"a picture of indifference and inability or unwillingness\" from the South African government to protect white citizens. He added: \"Persecution of white South Africans by African South Africans [is] a common event today in South Africa.\" Huntley's lawyer, Robert Kaplan, told the Times of South Africa: \"The judgment was a direct criticism of the South African government.\"There was an angry response from South African's governing African National Congress. \"The ANC views the granting by Canada of a refugee status to South African citizen Brandon Huntley on the grounds that Africans would 'persecute' him, as racist,\" the party said in a statement. \"We find the claim by Huntley to have been attacked seven times by Africans due to his skin colour without any police intervention sensational and alarming.Canada's reasoning for granting Huntley refugee status can only serve to perpetuate racism.\"Ronnie Mamoepa, South Africa's home affairs spokesman, said the government was \"disgusted\" by the ruling, describing it as \"baseless allegations against our people and our country\".\"It would have been courteous for the Canadian government to allow the South African government to respond to the allegations,\" he added.Race is seldom far from the public agenda in South Africa. Last month, Julius Malema, the firebrand leader of the ANC's youth league, was criticised after complaining that white people did not attend the welcoming home ceremony for world champion athlete Caster Semenya.The official unemployment rate for white South Africans is 4.6% percent, compared with 27.9% percent for black South Africans despite an affirmative action programme.Frans Cronje, deputy director of the South African Institute of Race Relations, said he sympathised with Huntley as an individual but there were myths around white victimhood. \"If he has been stabbed so many times, I can understand his state of mind,\" he said. \"The impression of persecution is very real but it doesn't stand up to scrutiny.\"He added: \"We have found no evidence that white South Africans are targeted because of race. The truth is that black South Africans are far and away more likely to be victims of violent crime. There are problems with the criminal justice system but again blacks are most likely to suffer.\"The row provided much sport for the satirical online newspaper Hayibo.com. Its home page said yesterday: \"Immigration authorities in England have warned Canada to expect a deluge of young, unemployable, white South Africans to arrive in their country after an immigration and refugee panel, made up of white folk who had never been to Africa, bought into former Cape Town resident Brandon Huntley's paranoia and granted him refugee status. 'There won't be enough pubs and restaurants in Vancouver and Toronto to employ them all,' said an unnamed Home Office source.\"", "tags": ["Race issues", "Canada", "South Africa", "World news", "Africa", "Americas"], "title": "Row as Canada gives asylum to white South African"},{"date": "2009-08-21T11:17:52Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A manhunt is under way for a US reality TV show contestant believed to have fled to Canada after killing his ex-wife.Ryan Jenkins, who was a contestant on the VH1 show Megan Wants a Millionaire, was charged today with the murder of former swimsuit model Jasmine Fiore. The couple married in a Las Vegas wedding this year.Police said Jenkins had removed Fiore's teeth and fingers in an apparent attempt to impede efforts to identify the naked body, which was found stuffed in a suitcase in a California litter bin over the weekend. A preliminary coroner's report indicated she had been strangled.Jenkins had reported her missing on Saturday night and then vanished after the body was found. Authorities suspect he drove 1,000 miles to Washington state and then hopped in a boat to a peninsula on the border, where he walked into Canada. Canadian police said ground, air and canine units were involved in the search.\"At this time, although we believe he crossed the border, we're not 100% sure of that,\" a US marshals chief inspector, Thomas Hession, said.\"There will be no stone unturned and we'll look under every rock for him.\" Police believe he may be armed with a handgun.A car and empty boat trailer belonging to the 32-year-old native of Calgary, Canada, were found at a marina in the remote north-west Washington town of Blaine.Jenkins, variously described as an architect, real estate developer and investment banker, appeared in at least three episodes of Megan Wants a Millionaire, about a woman seeking to land a wealthy bachelor by putting suitors through their paces.The couple had been fighting in recent months, according to Fiore's mother. Prosecutors said the two checked into a San Diego hotel on 13 August and Jenkins checked out the next morning. Fiore was not seen alive again.Police received a report yesterday that a man matching Jenkins's description had arrived by boat at Point Roberts, Washington, about 10 miles from Blaine at the tip of a peninsula. The point is reachable by land only from Canada, and Jenkins is believed to have walked across the border from there.After taping for Megan Wants a Millionaire finished in early March, he met 28-year-old Fiore in a Las Vegas casino and the two got married on 18 March, said Fiore's mother, Lisa Lepore.But in May, \"they had a big blowout\", and fought because he was jealous of her ex-boyfriends, Lepore said. \"She had the marriage annulled.\"Fiore's ex-boyfriend Robert Hasman urged Jenkins's friends and family to help police find him.\"Ryan Jenkins is an animal, what he has done to Jasmine is unspeakable and it's just not right and I'd appreciate your help,\" he said at a news conference.If Jenkins is apprehended north of the border, authorities there could extradite him but only with assurances that he would not face the death penalty. Farrah Emami, a spokeswoman with the Orange County district attorney's office, said the death penalty issue had not been addressed yet. Prosecutors have recommended bail of $10m (\u00a36m).\"Mr Jenkins is considered dangerous, possibly armed, and has the financial means to hide anywhere in the world,\" said the Orange County district attorney, Tony Rackauckas. \"Anyone helping Mr Jenkins hide from the police may go to prison themselves.\"Court records show that Jenkins was charged in June in Clark county, Nevada, with \"battery constituting domestic violence\" for allegedly hitting Fiore in the arm and was due to be tried in December.Jenkins also has a criminal history in his home town of Calgary. He was sentenced to 15 months' probation in January 2007 on an unspecified assault charge, according to the Alberta ministry of justice. No further details were available.", "tags": ["US news", "World news"], "title": "Manhunt launched for US reality show contestant Ryan Jenkins"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:07:16Z", "country": "canada", "content": "They've been dubbed the digilanti and they're the unsung heroes of the internet: unpaid techies who police the web in an extraordinarily altruistic way. And we can thank them this week for finding and blocking a new and weird form of spam spreading across the net.Last week I wrote about the bizarre question-asking spam my colleagues (and bloggers, columnists and companies all over the web) were receiving. The questions seemed innocent until we noticed they came from the same four or five email addresses \u2013 totally different to the sign-off in the email.But what was behind the spam? And how could they be making money from it? Now we have the answer, after volunteer-run the Spamhaus Project, based in Geneva, got on the case.It traced the spam to a number of Canadian-based domains.\"The purpose of the spam is to trick recipients into responding to answer the questions,\" says Spamhaus.\"The questions and their responses are a system of gathering data to compile a series of 'Answer your questions' websites which generate revenue from Google adverts placed alongside the answers. The purpose of the spam is to generate as much Google-indexed content as possible to reap profits from Google ads on the pages.\"Spamhaus answered a spam from \"winstonfinancial@gmail.com\", one of the email names Guardian Money highlighted last week. Spamhaus says: \"Our answer, word for word, including intentional misspellings, appeared as if by magic a few minutes later on the website www.goftp.com.\"Spamhaus has contacted internet service providers to block the spam. But there's a curious twist to this tale. I contacted goftp.com in Canada, not expecting a reply.However its boss, Doug Collins, did reply: \"The spam was an unfortunate mistake and was the result of a script we bought with an \"email\" module. All outbound emails have stopped. We would like to apologise to the internet community at large. We have no prior history of spamming and we certainly will not be in the future.\"Make of that what you will. It seems the internet is a very curious place.\u2022 Like millions of Brits, I hate Ryanair. And like millions of Brits, I fly on its planes regularly. It's a bit like smoking; you know it's wrong, you feel dirty, but you carry on doing it and hope that one day you'll kick the habit.The thing that most rankles about Ryanair the \u00a35 card charge for each leg of a journey. So if you and a mate find a \"free\" flight to Dublin, you still have to fork out \u00a320 in card charges.The only way round this is to pay by Visa Electron. A story we published last year on taking out an Electron card remains one of the most popular stories on Guardian Money's website.The chief drawback is that obtaining an Electron card has entailed opening another bank account. The good news is you can find cheap pre-pay cards with Electron capability. Until now I have not been a fan of pre-pay cards because of their high charges \u2013 set-up fees, cash-loading fees, ATM fees and so on.But this week Travelex cut ATM fees to zero on an Electron card with no set-up charges.You'll have to ask for a Cash Passport Sterling card and, rather annoyingly, you have to pick it up at a Travelex branch. But if you're a frequent Ryanair flyer, it's worth the effort.Just remember to change your holiday cash at Travelex's website, rather than at its expensive airport bureaux.p.collinson@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Consumer affairs", "Spam", "Email", "Money", "Technology"], "title": "Twist in the tale of questioning spam"},{"date": "2009-09-30T15:29:18Z", "country": "canada", "content": "They will be watching Juan Carlos Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt very closely at his jail in Vermont.The last time the silver-tongued Colombian conman with a taste for the high life was locked up he walked out of a British prison after persuading the authorities to let him go to the dentist on his own.But after illegally crossing the border from Canada, the man who British police have likened to the legendary US conman Frank Abagnale, played by Leonardo DiCaprio in the film Catch Me If You Can, now faces the prospect of up to eight countries and the US state of Nevada asking for his extradition.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt, 33, is believed to have stolen at least $1m (\u00a3625,000) across the globe including more than \u00a3150,000 in Britain by conning his way into hotel rooms and clearing out safes as well as more routine fraud.The Colombian has at least 10 identities and has been pursued in Canada, Colombia, Japan, Mexico, Russia, Thailand and Venezuela. He's been convicted of larceny in Virginia and New York and credit card fraud in Florida, and deported from the US three times.His earliest known con was to be found standing on the runway of Miami airport claiming to be a 13-year-old orphan who had clung to the undercarriage of a flight from Colombia. That unlikely story generated an outpouring of sympathy and gifts, and tens of thousands of dollars in donations to a support fund. After he fled with the cash, it emerged that Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was 17 years old with two healthy parents.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was known in Britain as Gonzalo Zapater Vives. He was detained there in 1998 following a series of burglaries but jumped bail. When he was finally picked up again in Mayfair in 2004 after an off duty policeman spotted him in a supermarket, the Colombian was tried and jailed for burglaries at the Dorchester Hotel and the Mandarin Oriental Hotel.The detective who arrested him, Andy Swindells, described Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt as a \"highly accomplished liar\" who staked out high class hotels, identified wealthy victims and waited for them to leave their rooms. Then he persuaded hotel staff to let him in, and once there would call security claiming to have forgotten the key or security code to the safe. Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt walked out with money, jewels and passports.He was sentenced to 3\u00bd years in prison but served only two months at Standford Hill open prison on the Isle of Sheppey before being allowed out on his own for a dental appointment. He never returned.The Colombian was arrested a few weeks later in Dublin for theft, served prison time and was ordered extradited to France. Then he disappeared again.Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt was detained by US border guards earlier this month after a tipoff as he waited for a taxi at a petrol station. He tried to persuade the officials that he had wandered across the frontier accidentally after his car broke down. But the border guards took him in to custody as a suspected illegal immigrant until his fingerprints revealed him as the elusive conman.", "tags": ["US news", "Colombia", "UK news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "International conman Juan Carlos Guzm\u00e1n-Betancourt captured at US-Canada border"},{"date": "2009-09-19T23:05:19Z", "country": "canada", "content": "First it was the giant panda, then the polar bear, now it seems that the grizzly bear is the latest species to face impending disaster.A furious row has erupted in Canada with conservationists desperately lobbying the government to suspend the annual bear-hunting season following reports of a sudden drop in the numbers of wild bears spotted on salmon streams and key coastal areas where they would normally be feeding.The government has promised to order a count of bears, but not until after this year's autumn trophy hunts have taken place. It has enraged ecology groups which say that a dearth of salmon stocks may be responsible for many bears starving in their dens during hibernation. The female grizzlies have their cubs during winter after gorging themselves in September on the fish fats that sustain them through the following months.\"I've never seen bears hungry in the fall before, but last year they were starving,\" said British Columbian wildlife guide and photographer Doug Neasloss. \"I noticed in the spring there weren't as many bears coming out, but I felt it was premature to jump to conclusions.\" But now, he said, \"there just aren't any bears. It's scary.\"It was the same story, he said, from other guides over 16 rivers where once they would have been encountering dozens of grizzly bears. \"There has been a huge drop in numbers. I've never experienced anything this bad.\" Reports from stream walkers, who monitor salmon streams across the vast territories, have been consistent, according to the conservation group Pacific Wild \u2013 no bears, and more worryingly, no bear cubs.\"There are just no bears out there, I'm hearing that from every side now,\" said Ian McAllister from Pacific Wild. He said that because a few grizzlies have been wandering close to centres of human habitation people thought there were plenty of bears around. \"In fact it's the shortage of food that's driving them into town. They're starving,\" he explained.In one river alone, the Fraser on Canada's west coast, 10 million sockeye salmon were expected back to spawn there this summer. Only one million turned up. Canada's Ministry of Environment announced in July that it would ban hunting of grizzly bears on an additional 470,000 hectares, bringing the total protected area for grizzlies and black bears to 1.9 million hectares.The news came after Jane Goodall, the renowned wildlife campaigner, added her voice to the campaign against the hunts, which are for trophies, not meat.\"I'm very distressed and shocked that the bear hunt \u2013 grizzly bear and black bear \u2013 is continuing in a country like Canada,\" she said. \"These bears are such amazing, magnificent creatures and there are so many secrets still to discover about their\u00a0lives.\"Grizzlies once roamed across most of North America and the Great Plains until European settlers gradually pushed them back. Only 1,000 remain in the contiguous US, where they are protected, but the number is less clear in the vast wilds of Canada and Alaska, where they are prized by hunters who shoot hundreds of the 350kg giants every year, providing a lucrative income for provincial governments that license the hunts. \"It's appalling wildlife management, considering the widespread concern for coastal bears at the moment,\" said McAllister.Indigenous groups have added their voice to the call to save the bears, pointing out that trophy hunting is against their traditions and threatens tourism, which is a vital source of income for the remote areas of Canada.But a senior biologist with the US National Wildlife Federation said the evidence remained anecdotal and called the reports \"alarmist\". Bears would not starve so quickly because of the decline in salmon while there were other food sources, such as berries, around, Sterling Miller told reporters. He said the long-term impact of the salmon decline on bears was a serious issue, but several years of data would need to be compiled to reveal a change in population trends.A report released last week showed species numbers to have fallen dramatically in the province of Alberta, where local officials have decided to suspend the annual hunting season despite intense lobbying from hunters. \"There's no question that bears are worse off now than 20 years ago \u2013 both in numbers and range,\" said Jim Pissot, of the group Defenders of Wildlife.", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Conservation", "Canada", "World news", "Environment", "Animal welfare", "Americas"], "title": "Grizzly bear decline alarms conservationists in Canada"},{"date": "2009-09-07T13:19:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Scottish transport operator FirstGroup has been accused by Canada's government of acting like a \"bullying multinational\" by slashing rural routes on its Greyhound Canada bus network, in a cost-cutting move that risks leaving far-flung towns bereft of regular links to the rest of the country.Greyhound, which was bought by FirstGroup as part of its $3.6bn (\u00a32.2bn) takeover of the US group Laidlaw two years ago, has announced that it intends to withdraw from a large chunk of Canada, including the province of Manitoba and north-western parts of Ontario. Without government support to cover losses, the company said it might go further by cutting services in western Canada, which could include routes to cities such as Vancouver, Calgary and Edmonton.Greyhound wants a public subsidy of at least C$15m (\u00a38.5m) to cover losses on less popular routes, after a drop in passenger numbers in outlying areas of some 15% over a year. But its actions have sparked complaints from smaller towns which say that, hundreds of miles from the nearest city, they depend on bus services as a lifeline.In the town of Terrace Bay, more than 700 miles from Toronto on the north shore of Lake Superior, a Greyhound service has been the only mode of public transport since a rail link was discontinued 15 years ago. Daily newspapers and regular packages arrive on Greyhound buses and the nearest major airport, Thunder Bay, is two and a half hours' drive away.Michael King, the mayor of Terrace Bay, told the Guardian: \"For us to lose buses through this whole area would leave us completely isolated with no rail, no air and no type of ground transport that people could use.\"The town is on a main Trans-Canada highway but not all its 1,800 residents have cars. King said: \"We're not remote \u2013 we're on a main highway -\u2013 but a lot of our residents rely on the buses to get to doctors' appointments with specialists or to get to the major cities.\"Since taking ownership of Greyhound, FirstGroup has sought to modernise the famous long-distance bus brand. The company has pumped in capital to upgrade coaches and recently announced plans to bring Greyhound buses to Britain. But the business has suffered in recession \u2013 in January, FirstGroup revealed that Greyhound revenues were down 4.5% in the final quarter of 2008.Greyhound has complained that a highly regulated structure gives it little leeway in adjusting service levels in Canada. It said it has been left with an \"all or nothing\" choice of either eliminating all services in certain areas or running them at an unsustainable level. The company has asked the country's federal government to bring together provincial authorities in order to agree on a compromise within the next 30 to 90 days. But Canada's transport ministry has accused FirstGroup of brinkmanship. A spokesman said: \"Greyhound is a multinational and their actions are heavy-handed. They're an attempt to bully the provinces of Manitoba and Ontario.\"A spokesman at FirstGroup's Aberdeen head office said the decision to withdraw services had been a difficult one: \"At a time of falling passenger demand and a significantly weaker economic backdrop, it is neither economically nor environmentally sustainable to continue to run Greyhound Canada services on some routes.\"The firm's Canadian operation suffered a drop in passengers over security fears last year arising from a gruesome murder in which a passenger was beheaded and cannibalised by a schizophrenic man on a Greyhound bus near Winnipeg.\u2022 This article was amended on 9 September 2009. The original referred to Alberta when it meant Calgary. This has been corrected.", "tags": ["FirstGroup", "Business", "Travel & leisure", "Coach travel", "Travel", "World news", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Canada criticises FirstGroup over plans to withdraw rural bus services"},{"date": "2009-09-01T20:14:07Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Asylum seeker Brandon Huntley claimed he had been persecuted, abused and repeatedly stabbed. But it was the reason he gave for his ordeal that caused a diplomatic rift today. Huntley is South African \u2013 and white.Canada's decision to grant him refugee status because of his colour prompted accusations of racism from the South African government and a fresh bout of soul searching in a country still scarred by the legacy of apartheid. Some South African whites say they have become a persecuted minority.Huntley, 31, from Cape Town, made his asylum claim in April last year. Citing violent crime and racism, he told the Canadian immigration and refugee board that he lived in fear of returning to South Africa. He said he had been attacked seven times by black South Africans, including four stabbings, and was called a \"white dog\" and \"settler\".\"There's a hatred of what we did to them and it's all about the colour of your skin,\" Huntley reportedly said.The immigration board, in Ottawa, found \"clear and convincing proof\" Huntley was persecuted for being white. William Davis, the board's chairman, ruled he \"was a victim because of his race rather than a victim of criminality\" and would \"stick out like a sore thumb due to his colour in any part of the country\".Davis added that the irrigation sprinkler salesman's evidence showed \"a picture of indifference and inability or unwillingness\" from the South African government to protect white citizens. He added: \"Persecution of white South Africans by African South Africans [is] a common event today in South Africa.\" Huntley's lawyer, Robert Kaplan, told the Times of South Africa: \"The judgment was a direct criticism of the South African government.\"There was an angry response from South African's governing African National Congress. \"The ANC views the granting by Canada of a refugee status to South African citizen Brandon Huntley on the grounds that Africans would 'persecute' him, as racist,\" the party said in a statement. \"We find the claim by Huntley to have been attacked seven times by Africans due to his skin colour without any police intervention sensational and alarming.Canada's reasoning for granting Huntley refugee status can only serve to perpetuate racism.\"Ronnie Mamoepa, South Africa's home affairs spokesman, said the government was \"disgusted\" by the ruling, describing it as \"baseless allegations against our people and our country\".\"It would have been courteous for the Canadian government to allow the South African government to respond to the allegations,\" he added.Race is seldom far from the public agenda in South Africa. Last month, Julius Malema, the firebrand leader of the ANC's youth league, was criticised after complaining that white people did not attend the welcoming home ceremony for world champion athlete Caster Semenya.The official unemployment rate for white South Africans is 4.6% percent, compared with 27.9% percent for black South Africans despite an affirmative action programme.Frans Cronje, deputy director of the South African Institute of Race Relations, said he sympathised with Huntley as an individual but there were myths around white victimhood. \"If he has been stabbed so many times, I can understand his state of mind,\" he said. \"The impression of persecution is very real but it doesn't stand up to scrutiny.\"He added: \"We have found no evidence that white South Africans are targeted because of race. The truth is that black South Africans are far and away more likely to be victims of violent crime. There are problems with the criminal justice system but again blacks are most likely to suffer.\"The row provided much sport for the satirical online newspaper Hayibo.com. Its home page said yesterday: \"Immigration authorities in England have warned Canada to expect a deluge of young, unemployable, white South Africans to arrive in their country after an immigration and refugee panel, made up of white folk who had never been to Africa, bought into former Cape Town resident Brandon Huntley's paranoia and granted him refugee status. 'There won't be enough pubs and restaurants in Vancouver and Toronto to employ them all,' said an unnamed Home Office source.\"", "tags": ["Race issues", "Canada", "South Africa", "World news", "Africa", "Americas"], "title": "Row as Canada gives asylum to white South African"},{"date": "2009-08-21T11:17:52Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A manhunt is under way for a US reality TV show contestant believed to have fled to Canada after killing his ex-wife.Ryan Jenkins, who was a contestant on the VH1 show Megan Wants a Millionaire, was charged today with the murder of former swimsuit model Jasmine Fiore. The couple married in a Las Vegas wedding this year.Police said Jenkins had removed Fiore's teeth and fingers in an apparent attempt to impede efforts to identify the naked body, which was found stuffed in a suitcase in a California litter bin over the weekend. A preliminary coroner's report indicated she had been strangled.Jenkins had reported her missing on Saturday night and then vanished after the body was found. Authorities suspect he drove 1,000 miles to Washington state and then hopped in a boat to a peninsula on the border, where he walked into Canada. Canadian police said ground, air and canine units were involved in the search.\"At this time, although we believe he crossed the border, we're not 100% sure of that,\" a US marshals chief inspector, Thomas Hession, said.\"There will be no stone unturned and we'll look under every rock for him.\" Police believe he may be armed with a handgun.A car and empty boat trailer belonging to the 32-year-old native of Calgary, Canada, were found at a marina in the remote north-west Washington town of Blaine.Jenkins, variously described as an architect, real estate developer and investment banker, appeared in at least three episodes of Megan Wants a Millionaire, about a woman seeking to land a wealthy bachelor by putting suitors through their paces.The couple had been fighting in recent months, according to Fiore's mother. Prosecutors said the two checked into a San Diego hotel on 13 August and Jenkins checked out the next morning. Fiore was not seen alive again.Police received a report yesterday that a man matching Jenkins's description had arrived by boat at Point Roberts, Washington, about 10 miles from Blaine at the tip of a peninsula. The point is reachable by land only from Canada, and Jenkins is believed to have walked across the border from there.After taping for Megan Wants a Millionaire finished in early March, he met 28-year-old Fiore in a Las Vegas casino and the two got married on 18 March, said Fiore's mother, Lisa Lepore.But in May, \"they had a big blowout\", and fought because he was jealous of her ex-boyfriends, Lepore said. \"She had the marriage annulled.\"Fiore's ex-boyfriend Robert Hasman urged Jenkins's friends and family to help police find him.\"Ryan Jenkins is an animal, what he has done to Jasmine is unspeakable and it's just not right and I'd appreciate your help,\" he said at a news conference.If Jenkins is apprehended north of the border, authorities there could extradite him but only with assurances that he would not face the death penalty. Farrah Emami, a spokeswoman with the Orange County district attorney's office, said the death penalty issue had not been addressed yet. Prosecutors have recommended bail of $10m (\u00a36m).\"Mr Jenkins is considered dangerous, possibly armed, and has the financial means to hide anywhere in the world,\" said the Orange County district attorney, Tony Rackauckas. \"Anyone helping Mr Jenkins hide from the police may go to prison themselves.\"Court records show that Jenkins was charged in June in Clark county, Nevada, with \"battery constituting domestic violence\" for allegedly hitting Fiore in the arm and was due to be tried in December.Jenkins also has a criminal history in his home town of Calgary. He was sentenced to 15 months' probation in January 2007 on an unspecified assault charge, according to the Alberta ministry of justice. No further details were available.", "tags": ["US news", "World news"], "title": "Manhunt launched for US reality show contestant Ryan Jenkins"},{"date": "2009-08-07T23:07:16Z", "country": "canada", "content": "They've been dubbed the digilanti and they're the unsung heroes of the internet: unpaid techies who police the web in an extraordinarily altruistic way. And we can thank them this week for finding and blocking a new and weird form of spam spreading across the net.Last week I wrote about the bizarre question-asking spam my colleagues (and bloggers, columnists and companies all over the web) were receiving. The questions seemed innocent until we noticed they came from the same four or five email addresses \u2013 totally different to the sign-off in the email.But what was behind the spam? And how could they be making money from it? Now we have the answer, after volunteer-run the Spamhaus Project, based in Geneva, got on the case.It traced the spam to a number of Canadian-based domains.\"The purpose of the spam is to trick recipients into responding to answer the questions,\" says Spamhaus.\"The questions and their responses are a system of gathering data to compile a series of 'Answer your questions' websites which generate revenue from Google adverts placed alongside the answers. The purpose of the spam is to generate as much Google-indexed content as possible to reap profits from Google ads on the pages.\"Spamhaus answered a spam from \"winstonfinancial@gmail.com\", one of the email names Guardian Money highlighted last week. Spamhaus says: \"Our answer, word for word, including intentional misspellings, appeared as if by magic a few minutes later on the website www.goftp.com.\"Spamhaus has contacted internet service providers to block the spam. But there's a curious twist to this tale. I contacted goftp.com in Canada, not expecting a reply.However its boss, Doug Collins, did reply: \"The spam was an unfortunate mistake and was the result of a script we bought with an \"email\" module. All outbound emails have stopped. We would like to apologise to the internet community at large. We have no prior history of spamming and we certainly will not be in the future.\"Make of that what you will. It seems the internet is a very curious place.\u2022 Like millions of Brits, I hate Ryanair. And like millions of Brits, I fly on its planes regularly. It's a bit like smoking; you know it's wrong, you feel dirty, but you carry on doing it and hope that one day you'll kick the habit.The thing that most rankles about Ryanair the \u00a35 card charge for each leg of a journey. So if you and a mate find a \"free\" flight to Dublin, you still have to fork out \u00a320 in card charges.The only way round this is to pay by Visa Electron. A story we published last year on taking out an Electron card remains one of the most popular stories on Guardian Money's website.The chief drawback is that obtaining an Electron card has entailed opening another bank account. The good news is you can find cheap pre-pay cards with Electron capability. Until now I have not been a fan of pre-pay cards because of their high charges \u2013 set-up fees, cash-loading fees, ATM fees and so on.But this week Travelex cut ATM fees to zero on an Electron card with no set-up charges.You'll have to ask for a Cash Passport Sterling card and, rather annoyingly, you have to pick it up at a Travelex branch. But if you're a frequent Ryanair flyer, it's worth the effort.Just remember to change your holiday cash at Travelex's website, rather than at its expensive airport bureaux.p.collinson@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Consumer affairs", "Spam", "Email", "Money", "Technology"], "title": "Twist in the tale of questioning spam"},{"date": "2009-09-12T23:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Witness the great polar bear migrationFrom October to mid-November, more than a thousand bears make their way towards Cape Churchill on the shore of Hudson Bay, where they wait until the ice is strong enough to support them in the hunt for their favourite food \u2013 seals. Join Wildlife Worldwide's seven-day trip and you can witness the end of their journey, and watch bears sparring. Based in Winnipeg and Churchill, you'll embark on daily guided excursions, where you may see Arctic fox, caribou, snowy owls and ptarmigans. Departs 11, 14, 25, 30 October and 4 November. To follow in the footsteps of Ray Mears to Prince of Wales Fort, you can catch ferries from Churchill \u2013 for details on the Fort see tinyurl.com/lou633.\u2022 0845 1306982; wildlifeworldwide.com; from \u00a33,645Watch bears from your mobile hotelTundra Lodge is a mobile hotel on wheels, made up of a set of connected bedrooms and a dining room, located just outside Churchill. During the day visitors go on guided wildlife expeditions and at night have the chance to watch bears wandering outside the windows of the lodge (which can be moved around according to where the experts believe the bears to be). The lodge is also an incredible location from which to witness the Northern Lights. Departs 11, 16, 19, 23, 27, 31 October and 4, 8, 12 November.\u2022 020 8951 2854; baobabexpeditions.com; seven nights from \u00a33,422.Learn about polar bears' behaviourGain an insight into the extraordinary life of a polar bear on a seven-day trip to the Hudson Bay region with Steppes Discovery. Excursions are led by guides who have spent time with researchers studying the bear in the Hudson Bay region, so you'll learn all about its feeding habits and movements. The tour also allows you to meet the people who live in Churchill. Various departures from 11 October to 14 November.\u2022 01285 643333; discoveryinitiatives.co.uk; from \u00a33,695Travel the Dempster HighwayThe Dempster Highway runs for 461 miles from Dawson City to Inuvik \u2013 an Inuit village 124 miles north of the Arctic Circle \u2013 and is one of the world's most spectacular roads. The route, much of which follows an old dog sled trail, cuts through two rugged mountain ranges, the Ogilvie and Richardson, past stunted spruce and alder forests in the Yukon's Eagle Plains before dropping to the Mackenzie River. Frontier Canada offers a nine-night fly-drive from Whitehorse in the Yukon to Inuvik. The highway is closed from the end of April to mid-June and from mid-October to mid-December.\u2022 020 8776 8709; frontier-canada.co.uk; from \u00a31,370Dog-sled through the wildernessBridge and Wickers offers a six-day trip to the Hudson Bay region, where \u2013 as well as going on polar bear spotting expeditions \u2013 you'll get to try your hand at dog-sledding across the ice and snow. Based in Churchill and Winnipeg, you'll also learn about the fascinating lives of the area's First Nation inhabitants with a visit to the Eskimo Museum in Churchill, where exhibits range from Inuit works of art and ancient tools to remarkable animal-hide canoes.\u2022 020 7483 6555; bridgeandwickers.co.uk; from \u00a33,633 Kayak among pods of Beluga whalesA seven-night kayaking trip gives you the chance to paddle among beluga whales in Hudson Bay, where more than 60,000 migrate to each summer. The journey begins in South Knife River, through dense forest and across barren Arctic tundra, where you'll join Churchill River, and eventually Hudson Bay to kayak among the pods of beluga whales. En route you'll camp under the stars, where, if you are lucky, you might see the aurora borealis. The next dates are 24 and 31 July 2010.\u2022 01488 689 700; baileyrobinson.com; from \u00a33,785Cruise the great northern passage For centuries, the quest for the Northwest Passage \u2013 a sea route through the Arctic Ocean around North America to the Orient \u2013 occupied the minds of western civilisation. Join Tailor Made Travel and cruise part of the passage, from Resolute to Cambridge Bay, passing through breathtaking straits, islands and peninsulas. You'll also go on excursions to the mainland aboard Zodiac inflatables.\u2022 0800 988 5887; tailor-made.co.uk; from \u00a33,460Wildlife watching artic cruiseGo in search of the Arctic's Big Five \u2013 walrus, caribou, muskoxen, whales and polar bear \u2013 on a 10-night cruise with Frontier Canada. As well as wildlife spotting onboard, you'll visit communities steeped in history and culture \u2013 including Cape Dorset, the Inuit art capital of the world \u2013 and to sites virtually untouched for thousands of years, such as Savage Islands, where you'll search for relics from the Palaeo-Eskimo people. Next trip 13 July 2010.\u2022 020 8776 8709; frontier-canada.co.uk; from \u00a35,307 Cruise from Iceland to Northern Canada Discover the World offers a 17-night voyage from Iceland to Canada, travelling below the Arctic Circle around the southern tip of Greenland, where you'll have a great chance of seeing the northern lights, as well as towering icebergs. Daily excursions include a visit to Monumental Island, home to polar bears, and the Inuit hamlet of Pangnirtung. Departing 3 August 2010.\u2022 01737 218800; discover-the-world.co.uk; from \u00a35,660\u2022 For more information about tourism in Canada see canada.travel", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Adventure travel", "Iceland holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Now do it for yourself: Canada's Northern wilderness"},{"date": "2009-11-26T22:54:37Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Prominent campaigners, politicians and scientists have called for Canada to be suspended from the Commonwealth over its climate change policies.The coalition's demand came before this weekend's Commonwealth heads of government summit in Trinidad and Tobago, at which global warming will top the agenda, and next month's UN climate conference in Copenhagen. Despite criticism of Canada's environmental policies, the prime minister, Stephen Harper, is to attend the Copenhagen summit. His spokesman said today: \"We will be attending the Copenhagen meeting \u2026 a critical mass of world leaders will be attending.\"Canada's per capita greenhouse gas emissions are among the world's highest and it will not meet the cut required under the Kyoto protocol: by 2007 its emissions were 34% above its reduction target. It is exploiting its vast tar sands reserves to produce oil, a process said to cause at least three times the emissions of conventional oil extraction.The coalition claims Canada is contributing to droughts, floods and sea level rises in Commonwealth countries such as Bangladesh, the Maldives and Mozambique. Clare Short, the former international development secretary, said: \"Countries that fail to help [tackle global warming] should be suspended from membership, as are those that breach human rights.\"The World Development Movement, the Polaris Institute in Canada and Greenpeace are among the organisations supporting the plan. Saleemul Huq, a lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, said: \"If the Commonwealth is serious about holding its members to account, then threatening the lives of millions of people in developing countries should lead to the suspension of Canada's membership immediately.\"Canada's environment department refused to comment on the call for it to be suspended.The Commonwealth comprises 53 states representing 2 billion people. In the past it has suspended Pakistan, Zimbabwe, Nigeria and South Africa for electoral or human rights reasons. Speaking earlier this week, its secretary general, Kamalesh Sharma, said: \"I would like to think that our definition of serious violations could embrace much more than it does now.\"", "tags": ["Climate change", "Canada", "World news", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Americas"], "title": "Scientists target Canada over climate change"},{"date": "2009-11-26T22:54:37Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Prominent campaigners, politicians and scientists have called for Canada to be suspended from the Commonwealth over its climate change policies.The coalition's demand came before this weekend's Commonwealth heads of government summit in Trinidad and Tobago, at which global warming will top the agenda, and next month's UN climate conference in Copenhagen. Despite criticism of Canada's environmental policies, the prime minister, Stephen Harper, is to attend the Copenhagen summit. His spokesman said today: \"We will be attending the Copenhagen meeting \u2026 a critical mass of world leaders will be attending.\"Canada's per capita greenhouse gas emissions are among the world's highest and it will not meet the cut required under the Kyoto protocol: by 2007 its emissions were 34% above its reduction target. It is exploiting its vast tar sands reserves to produce oil, a process said to cause at least three times the emissions of conventional oil extraction.The coalition claims Canada is contributing to droughts, floods and sea level rises in Commonwealth countries such as Bangladesh, the Maldives and Mozambique. Clare Short, the former international development secretary, said: \"Countries that fail to help [tackle global warming] should be suspended from membership, as are those that breach human rights.\"The World Development Movement, the Polaris Institute in Canada and Greenpeace are among the organisations supporting the plan. Saleemul Huq, a lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, said: \"If the Commonwealth is serious about holding its members to account, then threatening the lives of millions of people in developing countries should lead to the suspension of Canada's membership immediately.\"Canada's environment department refused to comment on the call for it to be suspended.The Commonwealth comprises 53 states representing 2 billion people. In the past it has suspended Pakistan, Zimbabwe, Nigeria and South Africa for electoral or human rights reasons. Speaking earlier this week, its secretary general, Kamalesh Sharma, said: \"I would like to think that our definition of serious violations could embrace much more than it does now.\"", "tags": ["Climate change", "Canada", "World news", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Americas"], "title": "Scientists target Canada over climate change"},{"date": "2009-11-04T15:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Most Canadians want to dump the British monarchy and change the constitutional system that may otherwise saddle them with a bewildered King Charles as head of state. We are emphatic about it, and have gone into the intensity of our dislike in two new polls in some detail. The courtiers fret.So what do you do, Britain, old sock old bean old pal? You send him here, at our expense, and he brings his second wife with him, she with the weird Prince Valiant haircut, to a country that still remembers Diana, Princess of Wales and how pretty and polite she was, even as a newlywed forced to watch 40 Newfoundland schoolchildren play the ukulele, badly.And what does he then do? He salts the insult by arriving in the same province of Newfoundland with her replacement and making a speech praising \"the strength of the Canadian character\". This, from an egotist who did his public duty by marrying Diana, but failed to keep his side of the bargain, thus destroying public fondness for the monarchy for generations. No wonder only 57 people showed up to meet the couple on Tuesday.Fling us a Diana, by all means \u2013 in 1983, 1986 and 1991, she delighted us \u2013 but we shall toss Camilla over the parapet the way the French threw cows at the Monty Pythonists.If Charles likes our character, I am minded to question it. If the Canadian character is stalwart, as Charles seems to define it militarily, we are about as enthused about our pointless mission in Afghanistan as the Americans are, or indeed the Brits. We flatly refused to go to Iraq in the first place. Therefore we are not stalwart.Are we dour? Yes, undoubtedly so. On Sunday I bought a bouquet of flowers for my neighbour's 90th birthday and walked into the ice-cream shop next door \u2013 it has a wonderful fug of fudge and chocolate \u2013 for two tubs of the macaroon variety. \"Aaaargh!\" a woman screamed. \"It's either your perfume or the flowers but you're making me sick!\" She rushed out of the store in hysterics. Ah, allergy politics.I was flummoxed. In Paris, you get blanked if you're not fragrant and bearing blossoms, but in Toronto if you're not wrinkle-enhanced, makeup-free, armpit-oozing and wearing that hideous Canadian classic, brown Lululemon yoga pants, you are not a woman.Was Charles praising this dourness, perhaps in hope that we'd haul Camilla to our breasts? If so, he got us wrong again.Are we polite? I used to think so, but the online comments of Canadians about the royal family place us only slightly below the level of vitriol of US Fox News viewers.Later in the tour he visits Montreal. French Quebecers, with justice, despise the British royals as much as they despise Ottawa and its current Conservative minority government. Inviting him was a calculated slap in the face to Canada's French population. What is the French character? Forthright if not sizzling. I look forward to its flowering in Montreal this week.Weirdly, the thing that most upsets Canadians about Charles is the notion of this jug-eared fool ending up on our currency. We can take the Queen's face (although schoolchildren do that folding trick with the $20 bill that turns her face into a bum) but we draw the line at Chuck.Money is somehow personal. The EU went bland with the euro to keep Europe happy. \"Gates!\" they said. \"Everyone loves gates!\" As I riffle though my wallet, I see Canada went for cosy. There are children playing hockey, an Inuit sculpture, oh look \u2013 a gate, and a menagerie on the coins: a beaver, a caribou and a polar bear.My editor asks, somewhat acidly, how any country that puts a bird called a loon on its dollar coin can object to Charles.And here we have found ourselves. The loon is the essence of the Canadian character. Only those who have never heard a loon call out across a vast lake on a still night can doubt its poetry. It is a wild call and a clear call, like John Masefield's, but unlike his, it's alive. It is a call of solitude and yearning, of the stops along the way to death. It speaks of a vast heartless cold landscape and the greatest aim of Canadians which is, as Margaret Atwood once pointed out, survival.We don't aim higher than that. It's a work of cunning if not genius to survive a Canadian winter. Hey, we do have a character after all!A loon is its blessed symbol and it has nothing to do with a silly man coddled like a buttered egg from birth who throws objects at his servants and screams: \"I will be your king!\"No, you won't, Charles, not if Canadians have anything to say about it.", "tags": ["Prince Charles", "Canada", "Monarchy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada prefers a loon to Charles  | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2009-11-26T22:54:37Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Prominent campaigners, politicians and scientists have called for Canada to be suspended from the Commonwealth over its climate change policies.The coalition's demand came before this weekend's Commonwealth heads of government summit in Trinidad and Tobago, at which global warming will top the agenda, and next month's UN climate conference in Copenhagen. Despite criticism of Canada's environmental policies, the prime minister, Stephen Harper, is to attend the Copenhagen summit. His spokesman said today: \"We will be attending the Copenhagen meeting \u2026 a critical mass of world leaders will be attending.\"Canada's per capita greenhouse gas emissions are among the world's highest and it will not meet the cut required under the Kyoto protocol: by 2007 its emissions were 34% above its reduction target. It is exploiting its vast tar sands reserves to produce oil, a process said to cause at least three times the emissions of conventional oil extraction.The coalition claims Canada is contributing to droughts, floods and sea level rises in Commonwealth countries such as Bangladesh, the Maldives and Mozambique. Clare Short, the former international development secretary, said: \"Countries that fail to help [tackle global warming] should be suspended from membership, as are those that breach human rights.\"The World Development Movement, the Polaris Institute in Canada and Greenpeace are among the organisations supporting the plan. Saleemul Huq, a lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, said: \"If the Commonwealth is serious about holding its members to account, then threatening the lives of millions of people in developing countries should lead to the suspension of Canada's membership immediately.\"Canada's environment department refused to comment on the call for it to be suspended.The Commonwealth comprises 53 states representing 2 billion people. In the past it has suspended Pakistan, Zimbabwe, Nigeria and South Africa for electoral or human rights reasons. Speaking earlier this week, its secretary general, Kamalesh Sharma, said: \"I would like to think that our definition of serious violations could embrace much more than it does now.\"", "tags": ["Climate change", "Canada", "World news", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Americas"], "title": "Scientists target Canada over climate change"},{"date": "2009-11-04T15:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Most Canadians want to dump the British monarchy and change the constitutional system that may otherwise saddle them with a bewildered King Charles as head of state. We are emphatic about it, and have gone into the intensity of our dislike in two new polls in some detail. The courtiers fret.So what do you do, Britain, old sock old bean old pal? You send him here, at our expense, and he brings his second wife with him, she with the weird Prince Valiant haircut, to a country that still remembers Diana, Princess of Wales and how pretty and polite she was, even as a newlywed forced to watch 40 Newfoundland schoolchildren play the ukulele, badly.And what does he then do? He salts the insult by arriving in the same province of Newfoundland with her replacement and making a speech praising \"the strength of the Canadian character\". This, from an egotist who did his public duty by marrying Diana, but failed to keep his side of the bargain, thus destroying public fondness for the monarchy for generations. No wonder only 57 people showed up to meet the couple on Tuesday.Fling us a Diana, by all means \u2013 in 1983, 1986 and 1991, she delighted us \u2013 but we shall toss Camilla over the parapet the way the French threw cows at the Monty Pythonists.If Charles likes our character, I am minded to question it. If the Canadian character is stalwart, as Charles seems to define it militarily, we are about as enthused about our pointless mission in Afghanistan as the Americans are, or indeed the Brits. We flatly refused to go to Iraq in the first place. Therefore we are not stalwart.Are we dour? Yes, undoubtedly so. On Sunday I bought a bouquet of flowers for my neighbour's 90th birthday and walked into the ice-cream shop next door \u2013 it has a wonderful fug of fudge and chocolate \u2013 for two tubs of the macaroon variety. \"Aaaargh!\" a woman screamed. \"It's either your perfume or the flowers but you're making me sick!\" She rushed out of the store in hysterics. Ah, allergy politics.I was flummoxed. In Paris, you get blanked if you're not fragrant and bearing blossoms, but in Toronto if you're not wrinkle-enhanced, makeup-free, armpit-oozing and wearing that hideous Canadian classic, brown Lululemon yoga pants, you are not a woman.Was Charles praising this dourness, perhaps in hope that we'd haul Camilla to our breasts? If so, he got us wrong again.Are we polite? I used to think so, but the online comments of Canadians about the royal family place us only slightly below the level of vitriol of US Fox News viewers.Later in the tour he visits Montreal. French Quebecers, with justice, despise the British royals as much as they despise Ottawa and its current Conservative minority government. Inviting him was a calculated slap in the face to Canada's French population. What is the French character? Forthright if not sizzling. I look forward to its flowering in Montreal this week.Weirdly, the thing that most upsets Canadians about Charles is the notion of this jug-eared fool ending up on our currency. We can take the Queen's face (although schoolchildren do that folding trick with the $20 bill that turns her face into a bum) but we draw the line at Chuck.Money is somehow personal. The EU went bland with the euro to keep Europe happy. \"Gates!\" they said. \"Everyone loves gates!\" As I riffle though my wallet, I see Canada went for cosy. There are children playing hockey, an Inuit sculpture, oh look \u2013 a gate, and a menagerie on the coins: a beaver, a caribou and a polar bear.My editor asks, somewhat acidly, how any country that puts a bird called a loon on its dollar coin can object to Charles.And here we have found ourselves. The loon is the essence of the Canadian character. Only those who have never heard a loon call out across a vast lake on a still night can doubt its poetry. It is a wild call and a clear call, like John Masefield's, but unlike his, it's alive. It is a call of solitude and yearning, of the stops along the way to death. It speaks of a vast heartless cold landscape and the greatest aim of Canadians which is, as Margaret Atwood once pointed out, survival.We don't aim higher than that. It's a work of cunning if not genius to survive a Canadian winter. Hey, we do have a character after all!A loon is its blessed symbol and it has nothing to do with a silly man coddled like a buttered egg from birth who throws objects at his servants and screams: \"I will be your king!\"No, you won't, Charles, not if Canadians have anything to say about it.", "tags": ["Prince Charles", "Canada", "Monarchy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada prefers a loon to Charles  | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2009-12-14T17:18:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Yes Men - or somebody suspiciously like them have struck again and this time the victim was Canada.And who better? The Canadians have emerged as the villain of the climate change negotiations for pumping out greenhouse gas emissions with the full-on exploitation of the Alberta tar sands.In the Yes Men's first transatlantic action, an email purported to be an official Environment Canada press release this afternoon announced an incredibly ambitious plan to cut carbon emissions by 40% below 1990 levels by 2020. It also went on to commit Canada to paying 1% and eventually up to 5% of its GDP in 2030 to help poor countries adapt to climate change.\"Canada is taking the long view on the world economy,\" the fake press release said, attributing the statement to the environment minister, Jim Prentice. \"Nobody benefits from a world in peril. Contributing to the development of other nations and taking full responsibilities for our emissions is simple Canadian good sense. We want to show the world that Canada is a leader on climate change.\"That would make a nice change. The Canadians have been regularly vilified by NGOs at Copenhagen, getting a Fossil of the Day Award for obstructing the talks.Today's hoax was fairly detailed. The initial email was followed up by a phoney press release from the Uganda delegation and a link to a video of a press conference on a phoney version of the official Copenhagen climate meeting site.\"This is a day that will define our century,\" the fake Ugandan official said in the press release. But there was no sense of celebration in the video, in which the fake Ugandan official scolded the Canadians. \"You are holding a loaded gun to our heads,\" said the official. \"You left us no choice but to see you as criminals.\"There was even a spoof write-up in the Wall Street Journal The flourish was a reminder of the Yes Men's last hoax: a US Chamber of Commerce press conference at the National Press Club in Washington. A number of news organisations fell for that stunt.In a reminder of that gaffe, the fake Journal article said it based its account on \"at least one source\".But as the real Jim Prentice told reporters later today: \"The press release was a hoax.\" He called the stunt \"undesirable\".UPDATE: A hoax within a hoax within a hoax. A new email dropped late tonight - this time claiming to be from Canada's environment ministry in Ottawa - ticking off the pranksters for making fun of the Ugandan bureaucrats.It was the third faux email of the day.In an email headed \"Tragic Ugandan Reaction to False \"Canada\" Announcement\", the perpetrators of the hoax took themselves to task for their sham video of Ugandan negotiators. \"Environment Canada wishes to stress that the Ugandan delegation's impassioned response to the announcement is a dramatic tragedy for those who stand to suffer the most,\" the email said.\"It is the height of cruelty, hypocrisy, and immorality to infuse with false hopes the spirit of people who are already, and will additionally, bear the brunt of climate change's terrible human effects.\"An Environment Canada spokesman said late last night that that email too was a hoax.In an email, the spokesman said all three emails originated from an apparently fake site. \"Enviro-Canada.ca is not in anyway affiliated with the Government of Canada,\" the email said. \"Environment' Canada's website is www.ec.gc.ca and Canada's Action on Climate Change website is www.climatechange.gc.caThe press release entitled \"Tragic Ugandan Reaction to False \"Canada\" Announcement\" originates from this fake site.\"", "tags": ["Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Environment", "World news", "Canada", "Global climate talks", "Americas"], "title": "Copenhagen spoof shames Canada on the truth about its emissions | Suzanne Goldenberg"},{"date": "2009-11-26T22:54:37Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Prominent campaigners, politicians and scientists have called for Canada to be suspended from the Commonwealth over its climate change policies.The coalition's demand came before this weekend's Commonwealth heads of government summit in Trinidad and Tobago, at which global warming will top the agenda, and next month's UN climate conference in Copenhagen. Despite criticism of Canada's environmental policies, the prime minister, Stephen Harper, is to attend the Copenhagen summit. His spokesman said today: \"We will be attending the Copenhagen meeting \u2026 a critical mass of world leaders will be attending.\"Canada's per capita greenhouse gas emissions are among the world's highest and it will not meet the cut required under the Kyoto protocol: by 2007 its emissions were 34% above its reduction target. It is exploiting its vast tar sands reserves to produce oil, a process said to cause at least three times the emissions of conventional oil extraction.The coalition claims Canada is contributing to droughts, floods and sea level rises in Commonwealth countries such as Bangladesh, the Maldives and Mozambique. Clare Short, the former international development secretary, said: \"Countries that fail to help [tackle global warming] should be suspended from membership, as are those that breach human rights.\"The World Development Movement, the Polaris Institute in Canada and Greenpeace are among the organisations supporting the plan. Saleemul Huq, a lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, said: \"If the Commonwealth is serious about holding its members to account, then threatening the lives of millions of people in developing countries should lead to the suspension of Canada's membership immediately.\"Canada's environment department refused to comment on the call for it to be suspended.The Commonwealth comprises 53 states representing 2 billion people. In the past it has suspended Pakistan, Zimbabwe, Nigeria and South Africa for electoral or human rights reasons. Speaking earlier this week, its secretary general, Kamalesh Sharma, said: \"I would like to think that our definition of serious violations could embrace much more than it does now.\"", "tags": ["Climate change", "Canada", "World news", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Americas"], "title": "Scientists target Canada over climate change"},{"date": "2009-11-04T15:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Most Canadians want to dump the British monarchy and change the constitutional system that may otherwise saddle them with a bewildered King Charles as head of state. We are emphatic about it, and have gone into the intensity of our dislike in two new polls in some detail. The courtiers fret.So what do you do, Britain, old sock old bean old pal? You send him here, at our expense, and he brings his second wife with him, she with the weird Prince Valiant haircut, to a country that still remembers Diana, Princess of Wales and how pretty and polite she was, even as a newlywed forced to watch 40 Newfoundland schoolchildren play the ukulele, badly.And what does he then do? He salts the insult by arriving in the same province of Newfoundland with her replacement and making a speech praising \"the strength of the Canadian character\". This, from an egotist who did his public duty by marrying Diana, but failed to keep his side of the bargain, thus destroying public fondness for the monarchy for generations. No wonder only 57 people showed up to meet the couple on Tuesday.Fling us a Diana, by all means \u2013 in 1983, 1986 and 1991, she delighted us \u2013 but we shall toss Camilla over the parapet the way the French threw cows at the Monty Pythonists.If Charles likes our character, I am minded to question it. If the Canadian character is stalwart, as Charles seems to define it militarily, we are about as enthused about our pointless mission in Afghanistan as the Americans are, or indeed the Brits. We flatly refused to go to Iraq in the first place. Therefore we are not stalwart.Are we dour? Yes, undoubtedly so. On Sunday I bought a bouquet of flowers for my neighbour's 90th birthday and walked into the ice-cream shop next door \u2013 it has a wonderful fug of fudge and chocolate \u2013 for two tubs of the macaroon variety. \"Aaaargh!\" a woman screamed. \"It's either your perfume or the flowers but you're making me sick!\" She rushed out of the store in hysterics. Ah, allergy politics.I was flummoxed. In Paris, you get blanked if you're not fragrant and bearing blossoms, but in Toronto if you're not wrinkle-enhanced, makeup-free, armpit-oozing and wearing that hideous Canadian classic, brown Lululemon yoga pants, you are not a woman.Was Charles praising this dourness, perhaps in hope that we'd haul Camilla to our breasts? If so, he got us wrong again.Are we polite? I used to think so, but the online comments of Canadians about the royal family place us only slightly below the level of vitriol of US Fox News viewers.Later in the tour he visits Montreal. French Quebecers, with justice, despise the British royals as much as they despise Ottawa and its current Conservative minority government. Inviting him was a calculated slap in the face to Canada's French population. What is the French character? Forthright if not sizzling. I look forward to its flowering in Montreal this week.Weirdly, the thing that most upsets Canadians about Charles is the notion of this jug-eared fool ending up on our currency. We can take the Queen's face (although schoolchildren do that folding trick with the $20 bill that turns her face into a bum) but we draw the line at Chuck.Money is somehow personal. The EU went bland with the euro to keep Europe happy. \"Gates!\" they said. \"Everyone loves gates!\" As I riffle though my wallet, I see Canada went for cosy. There are children playing hockey, an Inuit sculpture, oh look \u2013 a gate, and a menagerie on the coins: a beaver, a caribou and a polar bear.My editor asks, somewhat acidly, how any country that puts a bird called a loon on its dollar coin can object to Charles.And here we have found ourselves. The loon is the essence of the Canadian character. Only those who have never heard a loon call out across a vast lake on a still night can doubt its poetry. It is a wild call and a clear call, like John Masefield's, but unlike his, it's alive. It is a call of solitude and yearning, of the stops along the way to death. It speaks of a vast heartless cold landscape and the greatest aim of Canadians which is, as Margaret Atwood once pointed out, survival.We don't aim higher than that. It's a work of cunning if not genius to survive a Canadian winter. Hey, we do have a character after all!A loon is its blessed symbol and it has nothing to do with a silly man coddled like a buttered egg from birth who throws objects at his servants and screams: \"I will be your king!\"No, you won't, Charles, not if Canadians have anything to say about it.", "tags": ["Prince Charles", "Canada", "Monarchy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada prefers a loon to Charles  | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2009-12-14T17:18:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Yes Men - or somebody suspiciously like them have struck again and this time the victim was Canada.And who better? The Canadians have emerged as the villain of the climate change negotiations for pumping out greenhouse gas emissions with the full-on exploitation of the Alberta tar sands.In the Yes Men's first transatlantic action, an email purported to be an official Environment Canada press release this afternoon announced an incredibly ambitious plan to cut carbon emissions by 40% below 1990 levels by 2020. It also went on to commit Canada to paying 1% and eventually up to 5% of its GDP in 2030 to help poor countries adapt to climate change.\"Canada is taking the long view on the world economy,\" the fake press release said, attributing the statement to the environment minister, Jim Prentice. \"Nobody benefits from a world in peril. Contributing to the development of other nations and taking full responsibilities for our emissions is simple Canadian good sense. We want to show the world that Canada is a leader on climate change.\"That would make a nice change. The Canadians have been regularly vilified by NGOs at Copenhagen, getting a Fossil of the Day Award for obstructing the talks.Today's hoax was fairly detailed. The initial email was followed up by a phoney press release from the Uganda delegation and a link to a video of a press conference on a phoney version of the official Copenhagen climate meeting site.\"This is a day that will define our century,\" the fake Ugandan official said in the press release. But there was no sense of celebration in the video, in which the fake Ugandan official scolded the Canadians. \"You are holding a loaded gun to our heads,\" said the official. \"You left us no choice but to see you as criminals.\"There was even a spoof write-up in the Wall Street Journal The flourish was a reminder of the Yes Men's last hoax: a US Chamber of Commerce press conference at the National Press Club in Washington. A number of news organisations fell for that stunt.In a reminder of that gaffe, the fake Journal article said it based its account on \"at least one source\".But as the real Jim Prentice told reporters later today: \"The press release was a hoax.\" He called the stunt \"undesirable\".UPDATE: A hoax within a hoax within a hoax. A new email dropped late tonight - this time claiming to be from Canada's environment ministry in Ottawa - ticking off the pranksters for making fun of the Ugandan bureaucrats.It was the third faux email of the day.In an email headed \"Tragic Ugandan Reaction to False \"Canada\" Announcement\", the perpetrators of the hoax took themselves to task for their sham video of Ugandan negotiators. \"Environment Canada wishes to stress that the Ugandan delegation's impassioned response to the announcement is a dramatic tragedy for those who stand to suffer the most,\" the email said.\"It is the height of cruelty, hypocrisy, and immorality to infuse with false hopes the spirit of people who are already, and will additionally, bear the brunt of climate change's terrible human effects.\"An Environment Canada spokesman said late last night that that email too was a hoax.In an email, the spokesman said all three emails originated from an apparently fake site. \"Enviro-Canada.ca is not in anyway affiliated with the Government of Canada,\" the email said. \"Environment' Canada's website is www.ec.gc.ca and Canada's Action on Climate Change website is www.climatechange.gc.caThe press release entitled \"Tragic Ugandan Reaction to False \"Canada\" Announcement\" originates from this fake site.\"", "tags": ["Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Environment", "World news", "Canada", "Global climate talks", "Americas"], "title": "Copenhagen spoof shames Canada on the truth about its emissions | Suzanne Goldenberg"},{"date": "2009-10-27T14:50:14Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A boring press release arrives from Swiss International Airlines, heralding the launch of a new service from Zurich to the Canadian cities of Calgary and Vancouver. But wait! What are these strange annotations in the margin?The airline's announcement says that \"Calgary and Vancouver, which are both located in southern Canada, are major destinations not only for their growing tourist popularity\". But the reference to \"southern Canada\" has struck a dull note with somebody within Swiss, who clearly thinks of Canada as frozen tundra and who has added a caustic electronic note in the margin saying: \"Well, yes, but most of the rest of the country is pretty much uninhabited!\"The release also notes that the weekly Edelweiss flight leaves Switzerland for Canada at 9.25 every Monday morning and arrives back in Zurich at 9.55 on Tuesday mornings. But it doesn't detail departure times from Canada. The commentator in the margin has remarked: \"This is a very Zurich-centric view! Why not give the other departure times, too?\"Oh, the perils of email. This is hardly the ideal start in winning over Canadian travellers. An apologetic Swiss International spokesman, Jean-Claude Donzel, says: \"Something went wrong with the sending of the press release. This was not the final version.\"", "tags": ["Business", "Airline industry", "Switzerland", "Canada", "Marketing & PR", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Swiss airline red-faced over 'uninhabited' Canada quip"},{"date": "2009-11-26T22:54:37Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Prominent campaigners, politicians and scientists have called for Canada to be suspended from the Commonwealth over its climate change policies.The coalition's demand came before this weekend's Commonwealth heads of government summit in Trinidad and Tobago, at which global warming will top the agenda, and next month's UN climate conference in Copenhagen. Despite criticism of Canada's environmental policies, the prime minister, Stephen Harper, is to attend the Copenhagen summit. His spokesman said today: \"We will be attending the Copenhagen meeting \u2026 a critical mass of world leaders will be attending.\"Canada's per capita greenhouse gas emissions are among the world's highest and it will not meet the cut required under the Kyoto protocol: by 2007 its emissions were 34% above its reduction target. It is exploiting its vast tar sands reserves to produce oil, a process said to cause at least three times the emissions of conventional oil extraction.The coalition claims Canada is contributing to droughts, floods and sea level rises in Commonwealth countries such as Bangladesh, the Maldives and Mozambique. Clare Short, the former international development secretary, said: \"Countries that fail to help [tackle global warming] should be suspended from membership, as are those that breach human rights.\"The World Development Movement, the Polaris Institute in Canada and Greenpeace are among the organisations supporting the plan. Saleemul Huq, a lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, said: \"If the Commonwealth is serious about holding its members to account, then threatening the lives of millions of people in developing countries should lead to the suspension of Canada's membership immediately.\"Canada's environment department refused to comment on the call for it to be suspended.The Commonwealth comprises 53 states representing 2 billion people. In the past it has suspended Pakistan, Zimbabwe, Nigeria and South Africa for electoral or human rights reasons. Speaking earlier this week, its secretary general, Kamalesh Sharma, said: \"I would like to think that our definition of serious violations could embrace much more than it does now.\"", "tags": ["Climate change", "Canada", "World news", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Americas"], "title": "Scientists target Canada over climate change"},{"date": "2009-11-04T15:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Most Canadians want to dump the British monarchy and change the constitutional system that may otherwise saddle them with a bewildered King Charles as head of state. We are emphatic about it, and have gone into the intensity of our dislike in two new polls in some detail. The courtiers fret.So what do you do, Britain, old sock old bean old pal? You send him here, at our expense, and he brings his second wife with him, she with the weird Prince Valiant haircut, to a country that still remembers Diana, Princess of Wales and how pretty and polite she was, even as a newlywed forced to watch 40 Newfoundland schoolchildren play the ukulele, badly.And what does he then do? He salts the insult by arriving in the same province of Newfoundland with her replacement and making a speech praising \"the strength of the Canadian character\". This, from an egotist who did his public duty by marrying Diana, but failed to keep his side of the bargain, thus destroying public fondness for the monarchy for generations. No wonder only 57 people showed up to meet the couple on Tuesday.Fling us a Diana, by all means \u2013 in 1983, 1986 and 1991, she delighted us \u2013 but we shall toss Camilla over the parapet the way the French threw cows at the Monty Pythonists.If Charles likes our character, I am minded to question it. If the Canadian character is stalwart, as Charles seems to define it militarily, we are about as enthused about our pointless mission in Afghanistan as the Americans are, or indeed the Brits. We flatly refused to go to Iraq in the first place. Therefore we are not stalwart.Are we dour? Yes, undoubtedly so. On Sunday I bought a bouquet of flowers for my neighbour's 90th birthday and walked into the ice-cream shop next door \u2013 it has a wonderful fug of fudge and chocolate \u2013 for two tubs of the macaroon variety. \"Aaaargh!\" a woman screamed. \"It's either your perfume or the flowers but you're making me sick!\" She rushed out of the store in hysterics. Ah, allergy politics.I was flummoxed. In Paris, you get blanked if you're not fragrant and bearing blossoms, but in Toronto if you're not wrinkle-enhanced, makeup-free, armpit-oozing and wearing that hideous Canadian classic, brown Lululemon yoga pants, you are not a woman.Was Charles praising this dourness, perhaps in hope that we'd haul Camilla to our breasts? If so, he got us wrong again.Are we polite? I used to think so, but the online comments of Canadians about the royal family place us only slightly below the level of vitriol of US Fox News viewers.Later in the tour he visits Montreal. French Quebecers, with justice, despise the British royals as much as they despise Ottawa and its current Conservative minority government. Inviting him was a calculated slap in the face to Canada's French population. What is the French character? Forthright if not sizzling. I look forward to its flowering in Montreal this week.Weirdly, the thing that most upsets Canadians about Charles is the notion of this jug-eared fool ending up on our currency. We can take the Queen's face (although schoolchildren do that folding trick with the $20 bill that turns her face into a bum) but we draw the line at Chuck.Money is somehow personal. The EU went bland with the euro to keep Europe happy. \"Gates!\" they said. \"Everyone loves gates!\" As I riffle though my wallet, I see Canada went for cosy. There are children playing hockey, an Inuit sculpture, oh look \u2013 a gate, and a menagerie on the coins: a beaver, a caribou and a polar bear.My editor asks, somewhat acidly, how any country that puts a bird called a loon on its dollar coin can object to Charles.And here we have found ourselves. The loon is the essence of the Canadian character. Only those who have never heard a loon call out across a vast lake on a still night can doubt its poetry. It is a wild call and a clear call, like John Masefield's, but unlike his, it's alive. It is a call of solitude and yearning, of the stops along the way to death. It speaks of a vast heartless cold landscape and the greatest aim of Canadians which is, as Margaret Atwood once pointed out, survival.We don't aim higher than that. It's a work of cunning if not genius to survive a Canadian winter. Hey, we do have a character after all!A loon is its blessed symbol and it has nothing to do with a silly man coddled like a buttered egg from birth who throws objects at his servants and screams: \"I will be your king!\"No, you won't, Charles, not if Canadians have anything to say about it.", "tags": ["Prince Charles", "Canada", "Monarchy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada prefers a loon to Charles  | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2009-12-14T17:18:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Yes Men - or somebody suspiciously like them have struck again and this time the victim was Canada.And who better? The Canadians have emerged as the villain of the climate change negotiations for pumping out greenhouse gas emissions with the full-on exploitation of the Alberta tar sands.In the Yes Men's first transatlantic action, an email purported to be an official Environment Canada press release this afternoon announced an incredibly ambitious plan to cut carbon emissions by 40% below 1990 levels by 2020. It also went on to commit Canada to paying 1% and eventually up to 5% of its GDP in 2030 to help poor countries adapt to climate change.\"Canada is taking the long view on the world economy,\" the fake press release said, attributing the statement to the environment minister, Jim Prentice. \"Nobody benefits from a world in peril. Contributing to the development of other nations and taking full responsibilities for our emissions is simple Canadian good sense. We want to show the world that Canada is a leader on climate change.\"That would make a nice change. The Canadians have been regularly vilified by NGOs at Copenhagen, getting a Fossil of the Day Award for obstructing the talks.Today's hoax was fairly detailed. The initial email was followed up by a phoney press release from the Uganda delegation and a link to a video of a press conference on a phoney version of the official Copenhagen climate meeting site.\"This is a day that will define our century,\" the fake Ugandan official said in the press release. But there was no sense of celebration in the video, in which the fake Ugandan official scolded the Canadians. \"You are holding a loaded gun to our heads,\" said the official. \"You left us no choice but to see you as criminals.\"There was even a spoof write-up in the Wall Street Journal The flourish was a reminder of the Yes Men's last hoax: a US Chamber of Commerce press conference at the National Press Club in Washington. A number of news organisations fell for that stunt.In a reminder of that gaffe, the fake Journal article said it based its account on \"at least one source\".But as the real Jim Prentice told reporters later today: \"The press release was a hoax.\" He called the stunt \"undesirable\".UPDATE: A hoax within a hoax within a hoax. A new email dropped late tonight - this time claiming to be from Canada's environment ministry in Ottawa - ticking off the pranksters for making fun of the Ugandan bureaucrats.It was the third faux email of the day.In an email headed \"Tragic Ugandan Reaction to False \"Canada\" Announcement\", the perpetrators of the hoax took themselves to task for their sham video of Ugandan negotiators. \"Environment Canada wishes to stress that the Ugandan delegation's impassioned response to the announcement is a dramatic tragedy for those who stand to suffer the most,\" the email said.\"It is the height of cruelty, hypocrisy, and immorality to infuse with false hopes the spirit of people who are already, and will additionally, bear the brunt of climate change's terrible human effects.\"An Environment Canada spokesman said late last night that that email too was a hoax.In an email, the spokesman said all three emails originated from an apparently fake site. \"Enviro-Canada.ca is not in anyway affiliated with the Government of Canada,\" the email said. \"Environment' Canada's website is www.ec.gc.ca and Canada's Action on Climate Change website is www.climatechange.gc.caThe press release entitled \"Tragic Ugandan Reaction to False \"Canada\" Announcement\" originates from this fake site.\"", "tags": ["Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Environment", "World news", "Canada", "Global climate talks", "Americas"], "title": "Copenhagen spoof shames Canada on the truth about its emissions | Suzanne Goldenberg"},{"date": "2009-10-27T14:50:14Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A boring press release arrives from Swiss International Airlines, heralding the launch of a new service from Zurich to the Canadian cities of Calgary and Vancouver. But wait! What are these strange annotations in the margin?The airline's announcement says that \"Calgary and Vancouver, which are both located in southern Canada, are major destinations not only for their growing tourist popularity\". But the reference to \"southern Canada\" has struck a dull note with somebody within Swiss, who clearly thinks of Canada as frozen tundra and who has added a caustic electronic note in the margin saying: \"Well, yes, but most of the rest of the country is pretty much uninhabited!\"The release also notes that the weekly Edelweiss flight leaves Switzerland for Canada at 9.25 every Monday morning and arrives back in Zurich at 9.55 on Tuesday mornings. But it doesn't detail departure times from Canada. The commentator in the margin has remarked: \"This is a very Zurich-centric view! Why not give the other departure times, too?\"Oh, the perils of email. This is hardly the ideal start in winning over Canadian travellers. An apologetic Swiss International spokesman, Jean-Claude Donzel, says: \"Something went wrong with the sending of the press release. This was not the final version.\"", "tags": ["Business", "Airline industry", "Switzerland", "Canada", "Marketing & PR", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Swiss airline red-faced over 'uninhabited' Canada quip"},{"date": "2009-10-29T17:34:34Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In the far north latitudes, buried within a seemingly endless expanse of evergreen forests, the authorities in Canada are building up one of the world's best natural defences against global warming.In a series of initiatives, Canadian provincial governments and aboriginal leaders have set aside vast tracts of coniferous woods, wetlands, and peat. The conservation drive bans logging, mining, and oil drilling on some 250m acres \u2013 an area more than twice the size of California.The sheer scale of the forest conservation drive is somewhat of an anomaly for Canada, whose government has been accused of sabotaging the global climate change talks by its development of the Alberta tar sands and its refusal to make deep cuts in its greenhouse gas emissions.Last week, a former adviser to Barack Obama urged Canada to do more to keep up with America's moves towards a cleaner energy economy.In the latest addition to the carbon storehouse, the provincial premier of Manitoba, Gary Doer, this month announced a $10m (\u00a35.6m) Canadian fund to protect a 10.8m acre expanse of boreal or evergreen forest. It was one of Doer's last acts as premier; he took over as Canada's ambassador to Washington this month.The $10m will go towards efforts by indigenous leaders to designate boreal forest lands in eastern Manitoba as a Unesco world heritage site. The Pimachiowin Aki world heritage project, which straddles the Manitoba-Ontario border, extends efforts by Canadian provincial leaders to protect the wide swaths of pristine forests in the north. It also ensures the survival of one of the best natural defences against global warming after the world's oceans, environmentalists say.A report by the International Boreal Conservation Campaign said the forests, with their rich mix of trees, wetlands, peat and tundra, were a far bigger carbon store than scientists had realised, soaking up 22% of the total carbon stored on the earth's land surface.\"If you look across Canada one of [the boreal forest's] great values to us globally is its carbon storage value,\" said Steve Kallick, director of the Pew Environment Group's International Boreal Conservation Campaign. \"There is so much carbon sequestered in it already that if it escaped it would pose a whole new, very grave threat.\"Canada's cold temperatures slow decomposition, allowing the build-up of organic soil and peat. The forest floors beneath its evergreens hold twice as much carbon per acre as tropical forests, such as the Amazon.It is unclear how long Canada's forests can continue to serve as carbon vaults. \"As the climate warms, the place is going to dry up. There will be a problem with insect infestation. There is going to be increased natural carbon release due to fire or wetlands drying up,\" said Sue Libenson, a spokeswoman for the International Boreal Conservation Campaign.But she added: \"The general premise is that there is still a hell of a lot of carbon in there.\" Its release would be a climate catastrophe.Canada's 1.3bn acres of boreal forest store the equivalent of 27 years' worth of current global greenhouse gas emissions, a Greenpeace study found. The destruction of those forests, scientists warn, would be like setting off a massive \"carbon bomb\" because of the sudden release of emissions.That threat appears to have concentrated the official mindset in Canada, which otherwise has a poor record on action on climate change. On a per capita basis, the country is one of the worst polluters on the planet, producing about 2% of the world's emissions even though it has just 33m people. It holds one of the worst track records among industrialised states for living up to its commitment under the Kyoto accords. By 2007, greenhouse gas emissions were 34% above the target Canada agreed at Kyoto.Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper, is resisting doing much more, committing to just a 6% cut over 1990 levels of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. \"I see Harper's policy as a continuation of the Bush agenda,\" said David Martin, climate director for Greenpeace Canada.A key advisor to Obama made a similar point last week, comparing Canada's current climate change policy to the inaction in America under George Bush. \"The Canadians would be well served by keeping up with what's going on in the United States with respect to this push towards clean technology,\" John Podesta, who oversaw Obama's transition team, told a conference in Ottawa.Environmentalists also fear that Harper intends to exclude the Alberta tar sands \u2013 the heavy crude deposits that have fuelled the rise in emissions \u2013 from any future greenhouse gas emissions regime.But the Harper government did relent on forest protection, working with the Sahtu and Deh Cho First Nations to set aside 40m acres in the Northwest Territories.Canadian provincial leaders have moved even more aggressively in recent years, with Ontario committed to protecting 55m acres, or about half of its forest, and Quebec committed to protecting 150m acres. \"Canada is torn between wanting to promote the tar sands and make money off it now, and wanting to live up to its promises under the Kyoto accord. But as far as protecting carbon rich ecosystems, particularly the boreal forest, Canada is a world leader,\" said Kallick.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Conservation", "Environment", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada sets aside its boreal forest as giant carbon vault"},{"date": "2009-11-26T22:54:37Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Prominent campaigners, politicians and scientists have called for Canada to be suspended from the Commonwealth over its climate change policies.The coalition's demand came before this weekend's Commonwealth heads of government summit in Trinidad and Tobago, at which global warming will top the agenda, and next month's UN climate conference in Copenhagen. Despite criticism of Canada's environmental policies, the prime minister, Stephen Harper, is to attend the Copenhagen summit. His spokesman said today: \"We will be attending the Copenhagen meeting \u2026 a critical mass of world leaders will be attending.\"Canada's per capita greenhouse gas emissions are among the world's highest and it will not meet the cut required under the Kyoto protocol: by 2007 its emissions were 34% above its reduction target. It is exploiting its vast tar sands reserves to produce oil, a process said to cause at least three times the emissions of conventional oil extraction.The coalition claims Canada is contributing to droughts, floods and sea level rises in Commonwealth countries such as Bangladesh, the Maldives and Mozambique. Clare Short, the former international development secretary, said: \"Countries that fail to help [tackle global warming] should be suspended from membership, as are those that breach human rights.\"The World Development Movement, the Polaris Institute in Canada and Greenpeace are among the organisations supporting the plan. Saleemul Huq, a lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, said: \"If the Commonwealth is serious about holding its members to account, then threatening the lives of millions of people in developing countries should lead to the suspension of Canada's membership immediately.\"Canada's environment department refused to comment on the call for it to be suspended.The Commonwealth comprises 53 states representing 2 billion people. In the past it has suspended Pakistan, Zimbabwe, Nigeria and South Africa for electoral or human rights reasons. Speaking earlier this week, its secretary general, Kamalesh Sharma, said: \"I would like to think that our definition of serious violations could embrace much more than it does now.\"", "tags": ["Climate change", "Canada", "World news", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Americas"], "title": "Scientists target Canada over climate change"},{"date": "2009-11-04T15:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Most Canadians want to dump the British monarchy and change the constitutional system that may otherwise saddle them with a bewildered King Charles as head of state. We are emphatic about it, and have gone into the intensity of our dislike in two new polls in some detail. The courtiers fret.So what do you do, Britain, old sock old bean old pal? You send him here, at our expense, and he brings his second wife with him, she with the weird Prince Valiant haircut, to a country that still remembers Diana, Princess of Wales and how pretty and polite she was, even as a newlywed forced to watch 40 Newfoundland schoolchildren play the ukulele, badly.And what does he then do? He salts the insult by arriving in the same province of Newfoundland with her replacement and making a speech praising \"the strength of the Canadian character\". This, from an egotist who did his public duty by marrying Diana, but failed to keep his side of the bargain, thus destroying public fondness for the monarchy for generations. No wonder only 57 people showed up to meet the couple on Tuesday.Fling us a Diana, by all means \u2013 in 1983, 1986 and 1991, she delighted us \u2013 but we shall toss Camilla over the parapet the way the French threw cows at the Monty Pythonists.If Charles likes our character, I am minded to question it. If the Canadian character is stalwart, as Charles seems to define it militarily, we are about as enthused about our pointless mission in Afghanistan as the Americans are, or indeed the Brits. We flatly refused to go to Iraq in the first place. Therefore we are not stalwart.Are we dour? Yes, undoubtedly so. On Sunday I bought a bouquet of flowers for my neighbour's 90th birthday and walked into the ice-cream shop next door \u2013 it has a wonderful fug of fudge and chocolate \u2013 for two tubs of the macaroon variety. \"Aaaargh!\" a woman screamed. \"It's either your perfume or the flowers but you're making me sick!\" She rushed out of the store in hysterics. Ah, allergy politics.I was flummoxed. In Paris, you get blanked if you're not fragrant and bearing blossoms, but in Toronto if you're not wrinkle-enhanced, makeup-free, armpit-oozing and wearing that hideous Canadian classic, brown Lululemon yoga pants, you are not a woman.Was Charles praising this dourness, perhaps in hope that we'd haul Camilla to our breasts? If so, he got us wrong again.Are we polite? I used to think so, but the online comments of Canadians about the royal family place us only slightly below the level of vitriol of US Fox News viewers.Later in the tour he visits Montreal. French Quebecers, with justice, despise the British royals as much as they despise Ottawa and its current Conservative minority government. Inviting him was a calculated slap in the face to Canada's French population. What is the French character? Forthright if not sizzling. I look forward to its flowering in Montreal this week.Weirdly, the thing that most upsets Canadians about Charles is the notion of this jug-eared fool ending up on our currency. We can take the Queen's face (although schoolchildren do that folding trick with the $20 bill that turns her face into a bum) but we draw the line at Chuck.Money is somehow personal. The EU went bland with the euro to keep Europe happy. \"Gates!\" they said. \"Everyone loves gates!\" As I riffle though my wallet, I see Canada went for cosy. There are children playing hockey, an Inuit sculpture, oh look \u2013 a gate, and a menagerie on the coins: a beaver, a caribou and a polar bear.My editor asks, somewhat acidly, how any country that puts a bird called a loon on its dollar coin can object to Charles.And here we have found ourselves. The loon is the essence of the Canadian character. Only those who have never heard a loon call out across a vast lake on a still night can doubt its poetry. It is a wild call and a clear call, like John Masefield's, but unlike his, it's alive. It is a call of solitude and yearning, of the stops along the way to death. It speaks of a vast heartless cold landscape and the greatest aim of Canadians which is, as Margaret Atwood once pointed out, survival.We don't aim higher than that. It's a work of cunning if not genius to survive a Canadian winter. Hey, we do have a character after all!A loon is its blessed symbol and it has nothing to do with a silly man coddled like a buttered egg from birth who throws objects at his servants and screams: \"I will be your king!\"No, you won't, Charles, not if Canadians have anything to say about it.", "tags": ["Prince Charles", "Canada", "Monarchy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada prefers a loon to Charles  | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2009-12-14T17:18:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Yes Men - or somebody suspiciously like them have struck again and this time the victim was Canada.And who better? The Canadians have emerged as the villain of the climate change negotiations for pumping out greenhouse gas emissions with the full-on exploitation of the Alberta tar sands.In the Yes Men's first transatlantic action, an email purported to be an official Environment Canada press release this afternoon announced an incredibly ambitious plan to cut carbon emissions by 40% below 1990 levels by 2020. It also went on to commit Canada to paying 1% and eventually up to 5% of its GDP in 2030 to help poor countries adapt to climate change.\"Canada is taking the long view on the world economy,\" the fake press release said, attributing the statement to the environment minister, Jim Prentice. \"Nobody benefits from a world in peril. Contributing to the development of other nations and taking full responsibilities for our emissions is simple Canadian good sense. We want to show the world that Canada is a leader on climate change.\"That would make a nice change. The Canadians have been regularly vilified by NGOs at Copenhagen, getting a Fossil of the Day Award for obstructing the talks.Today's hoax was fairly detailed. The initial email was followed up by a phoney press release from the Uganda delegation and a link to a video of a press conference on a phoney version of the official Copenhagen climate meeting site.\"This is a day that will define our century,\" the fake Ugandan official said in the press release. But there was no sense of celebration in the video, in which the fake Ugandan official scolded the Canadians. \"You are holding a loaded gun to our heads,\" said the official. \"You left us no choice but to see you as criminals.\"There was even a spoof write-up in the Wall Street Journal The flourish was a reminder of the Yes Men's last hoax: a US Chamber of Commerce press conference at the National Press Club in Washington. A number of news organisations fell for that stunt.In a reminder of that gaffe, the fake Journal article said it based its account on \"at least one source\".But as the real Jim Prentice told reporters later today: \"The press release was a hoax.\" He called the stunt \"undesirable\".UPDATE: A hoax within a hoax within a hoax. A new email dropped late tonight - this time claiming to be from Canada's environment ministry in Ottawa - ticking off the pranksters for making fun of the Ugandan bureaucrats.It was the third faux email of the day.In an email headed \"Tragic Ugandan Reaction to False \"Canada\" Announcement\", the perpetrators of the hoax took themselves to task for their sham video of Ugandan negotiators. \"Environment Canada wishes to stress that the Ugandan delegation's impassioned response to the announcement is a dramatic tragedy for those who stand to suffer the most,\" the email said.\"It is the height of cruelty, hypocrisy, and immorality to infuse with false hopes the spirit of people who are already, and will additionally, bear the brunt of climate change's terrible human effects.\"An Environment Canada spokesman said late last night that that email too was a hoax.In an email, the spokesman said all three emails originated from an apparently fake site. \"Enviro-Canada.ca is not in anyway affiliated with the Government of Canada,\" the email said. \"Environment' Canada's website is www.ec.gc.ca and Canada's Action on Climate Change website is www.climatechange.gc.caThe press release entitled \"Tragic Ugandan Reaction to False \"Canada\" Announcement\" originates from this fake site.\"", "tags": ["Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Environment", "World news", "Canada", "Global climate talks", "Americas"], "title": "Copenhagen spoof shames Canada on the truth about its emissions | Suzanne Goldenberg"},{"date": "2009-10-27T14:50:14Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A boring press release arrives from Swiss International Airlines, heralding the launch of a new service from Zurich to the Canadian cities of Calgary and Vancouver. But wait! What are these strange annotations in the margin?The airline's announcement says that \"Calgary and Vancouver, which are both located in southern Canada, are major destinations not only for their growing tourist popularity\". But the reference to \"southern Canada\" has struck a dull note with somebody within Swiss, who clearly thinks of Canada as frozen tundra and who has added a caustic electronic note in the margin saying: \"Well, yes, but most of the rest of the country is pretty much uninhabited!\"The release also notes that the weekly Edelweiss flight leaves Switzerland for Canada at 9.25 every Monday morning and arrives back in Zurich at 9.55 on Tuesday mornings. But it doesn't detail departure times from Canada. The commentator in the margin has remarked: \"This is a very Zurich-centric view! Why not give the other departure times, too?\"Oh, the perils of email. This is hardly the ideal start in winning over Canadian travellers. An apologetic Swiss International spokesman, Jean-Claude Donzel, says: \"Something went wrong with the sending of the press release. This was not the final version.\"", "tags": ["Business", "Airline industry", "Switzerland", "Canada", "Marketing & PR", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Swiss airline red-faced over 'uninhabited' Canada quip"},{"date": "2009-10-29T17:34:34Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In the far north latitudes, buried within a seemingly endless expanse of evergreen forests, the authorities in Canada are building up one of the world's best natural defences against global warming.In a series of initiatives, Canadian provincial governments and aboriginal leaders have set aside vast tracts of coniferous woods, wetlands, and peat. The conservation drive bans logging, mining, and oil drilling on some 250m acres \u2013 an area more than twice the size of California.The sheer scale of the forest conservation drive is somewhat of an anomaly for Canada, whose government has been accused of sabotaging the global climate change talks by its development of the Alberta tar sands and its refusal to make deep cuts in its greenhouse gas emissions.Last week, a former adviser to Barack Obama urged Canada to do more to keep up with America's moves towards a cleaner energy economy.In the latest addition to the carbon storehouse, the provincial premier of Manitoba, Gary Doer, this month announced a $10m (\u00a35.6m) Canadian fund to protect a 10.8m acre expanse of boreal or evergreen forest. It was one of Doer's last acts as premier; he took over as Canada's ambassador to Washington this month.The $10m will go towards efforts by indigenous leaders to designate boreal forest lands in eastern Manitoba as a Unesco world heritage site. The Pimachiowin Aki world heritage project, which straddles the Manitoba-Ontario border, extends efforts by Canadian provincial leaders to protect the wide swaths of pristine forests in the north. It also ensures the survival of one of the best natural defences against global warming after the world's oceans, environmentalists say.A report by the International Boreal Conservation Campaign said the forests, with their rich mix of trees, wetlands, peat and tundra, were a far bigger carbon store than scientists had realised, soaking up 22% of the total carbon stored on the earth's land surface.\"If you look across Canada one of [the boreal forest's] great values to us globally is its carbon storage value,\" said Steve Kallick, director of the Pew Environment Group's International Boreal Conservation Campaign. \"There is so much carbon sequestered in it already that if it escaped it would pose a whole new, very grave threat.\"Canada's cold temperatures slow decomposition, allowing the build-up of organic soil and peat. The forest floors beneath its evergreens hold twice as much carbon per acre as tropical forests, such as the Amazon.It is unclear how long Canada's forests can continue to serve as carbon vaults. \"As the climate warms, the place is going to dry up. There will be a problem with insect infestation. There is going to be increased natural carbon release due to fire or wetlands drying up,\" said Sue Libenson, a spokeswoman for the International Boreal Conservation Campaign.But she added: \"The general premise is that there is still a hell of a lot of carbon in there.\" Its release would be a climate catastrophe.Canada's 1.3bn acres of boreal forest store the equivalent of 27 years' worth of current global greenhouse gas emissions, a Greenpeace study found. The destruction of those forests, scientists warn, would be like setting off a massive \"carbon bomb\" because of the sudden release of emissions.That threat appears to have concentrated the official mindset in Canada, which otherwise has a poor record on action on climate change. On a per capita basis, the country is one of the worst polluters on the planet, producing about 2% of the world's emissions even though it has just 33m people. It holds one of the worst track records among industrialised states for living up to its commitment under the Kyoto accords. By 2007, greenhouse gas emissions were 34% above the target Canada agreed at Kyoto.Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper, is resisting doing much more, committing to just a 6% cut over 1990 levels of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. \"I see Harper's policy as a continuation of the Bush agenda,\" said David Martin, climate director for Greenpeace Canada.A key advisor to Obama made a similar point last week, comparing Canada's current climate change policy to the inaction in America under George Bush. \"The Canadians would be well served by keeping up with what's going on in the United States with respect to this push towards clean technology,\" John Podesta, who oversaw Obama's transition team, told a conference in Ottawa.Environmentalists also fear that Harper intends to exclude the Alberta tar sands \u2013 the heavy crude deposits that have fuelled the rise in emissions \u2013 from any future greenhouse gas emissions regime.But the Harper government did relent on forest protection, working with the Sahtu and Deh Cho First Nations to set aside 40m acres in the Northwest Territories.Canadian provincial leaders have moved even more aggressively in recent years, with Ontario committed to protecting 55m acres, or about half of its forest, and Quebec committed to protecting 150m acres. \"Canada is torn between wanting to promote the tar sands and make money off it now, and wanting to live up to its promises under the Kyoto accord. But as far as protecting carbon rich ecosystems, particularly the boreal forest, Canada is a world leader,\" said Kallick.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Conservation", "Environment", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada sets aside its boreal forest as giant carbon vault"},{"date": "2009-11-16T00:58:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Gordon Brown is to offer a formal apology to tens of thousands of British children forcibly sent to Commonwealth countries during the last century, many of whom faced abuse and a regime of unpaid labour rather than the better life they were promised.The prime minister plans to make the apology in the new year after discussions with charities representing former child migrants and their families, a Downing Street spokeswoman said today.In a letter to a Labour MP who has campaigned on the issue, Brown said that the \"time is now right\" for an apology, adding: \"It is important that we take the time to listen to the voices of the survivors and victims of these misguided policies.\"Government records show that at least 150,000 children aged between three and 14 were taken abroad, mainly to Australia and Canada, in a programme that began in the 1920s and did not stop until 1967.The children, almost invariably from deprived backgrounds and already in some form of social or charitable care, were cut off from their families or even falsely informed that they were orphans.While their parents were told the child migrants had gone to a better life, in many cases they remained in institutions or were sent to farming families and treated as unpaid labour, and many faced abuse. A key subtext to the programme, particularly in relation to Australia, was the aim of supplying Commonwealth countries with sufficient \"white stock\".Brown's apology follows other recent government expressions of regret for past policies now seen as inhumane. Soon after Tony Blair took power in 1997, Blair apologised to Irish people for the country's potato famine 150 years before. Ten years later he expressed sorrow for the UK's role in the slave trade, although his words fell short of the unconditional apology demanded by campaigners.While some critics dismissed these as meaningless stunts given the passage of time involved, many of those sent away as part of the Child Migrants Programme are still alive, with about 7,000 living in Australia alone. Sandra Anker, who was sent there from Britain in 1950, aged six, told the BBC she remained deeply angry at what had happened.\"Why I was sent out is beyond me. I don't understand it. I was deprived of my rights as a British citizen and I feel the British government have a lot to answer for,\" she said. \"We've suffered all our lives. For the government of England to say sorry to us, it makes it right. Even if it's late, it's better than not at all.\"News of Brown's move came as Australia's prime minister, Kevin Rudd, this morning made a wider apology to the estimated 500,000 children, many from overseas, who were held in orphanages and other institutions around that country between 1930 and 1970. Rudd \u2013 who in 2008 made a landmark apology to the so-called \"stolen generations\" of aboriginal children forcibly removed from their parents \u2013 addressed about 900 former child migrants at the parliament building in Canberra.He apologised to thousands of British children who suffered abuse and neglect after being shipped to Australia. \"We are sorry,\" Rudd said. \"Sorry that as children you were taken from your families and placed in institutions where so often you were abused. Sorry for the physical suffering, the emotional starvation and the cold absence of love, of tenderness, of care. Sorry for the tragedy the absolute tragedy of childhoods lost.\"The British high commissioner in Australia, the former Labour minister Lady Amos, said the next stage would be for the government to work with the Child Migrants Trust, which campaigns on the issue, on a wording for the apology. The trust's founder, Margaret Humphreys, is in Canberra to hear Rudd's apology. She said: \"This is a significant moment in the history of child migration. The recognition is vital if people are to recover.\"The issue of the UK child migrants was investigated in 1998 by the Commons health select committee, a process which led to the Department of Health drawing up guidance for families to trace those sent away. Kevin Barron, the Labour MP who chairs the committee, said he had received a letter from Brown outlining the planned apology and was \"very pleased\".Ed Balls, the children's secretary, said yesterday the child migrant programme was \"a stain on our society\".\"I think it is important that we say to the children who are now adults and older people, and to their offspring, that this is something that we look back on in shame,\" he said.A health department document drawn up for migrants' families describes how a number of organisations, including Barnardo's, the Salvation Army, the Children's Society and some Catholic groups, were involved in sending children abroad.", "tags": ["Children", "Australia news", "Canada", "Gordon Brown", "World news", "UK news", "Politics", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Brown to apologise to care home children sent to Australia and Canada"},{"date": "2009-11-26T22:54:37Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Prominent campaigners, politicians and scientists have called for Canada to be suspended from the Commonwealth over its climate change policies.The coalition's demand came before this weekend's Commonwealth heads of government summit in Trinidad and Tobago, at which global warming will top the agenda, and next month's UN climate conference in Copenhagen. Despite criticism of Canada's environmental policies, the prime minister, Stephen Harper, is to attend the Copenhagen summit. His spokesman said today: \"We will be attending the Copenhagen meeting \u2026 a critical mass of world leaders will be attending.\"Canada's per capita greenhouse gas emissions are among the world's highest and it will not meet the cut required under the Kyoto protocol: by 2007 its emissions were 34% above its reduction target. It is exploiting its vast tar sands reserves to produce oil, a process said to cause at least three times the emissions of conventional oil extraction.The coalition claims Canada is contributing to droughts, floods and sea level rises in Commonwealth countries such as Bangladesh, the Maldives and Mozambique. Clare Short, the former international development secretary, said: \"Countries that fail to help [tackle global warming] should be suspended from membership, as are those that breach human rights.\"The World Development Movement, the Polaris Institute in Canada and Greenpeace are among the organisations supporting the plan. Saleemul Huq, a lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, said: \"If the Commonwealth is serious about holding its members to account, then threatening the lives of millions of people in developing countries should lead to the suspension of Canada's membership immediately.\"Canada's environment department refused to comment on the call for it to be suspended.The Commonwealth comprises 53 states representing 2 billion people. In the past it has suspended Pakistan, Zimbabwe, Nigeria and South Africa for electoral or human rights reasons. Speaking earlier this week, its secretary general, Kamalesh Sharma, said: \"I would like to think that our definition of serious violations could embrace much more than it does now.\"", "tags": ["Climate change", "Canada", "World news", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Americas"], "title": "Scientists target Canada over climate change"},{"date": "2009-11-04T15:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Most Canadians want to dump the British monarchy and change the constitutional system that may otherwise saddle them with a bewildered King Charles as head of state. We are emphatic about it, and have gone into the intensity of our dislike in two new polls in some detail. The courtiers fret.So what do you do, Britain, old sock old bean old pal? You send him here, at our expense, and he brings his second wife with him, she with the weird Prince Valiant haircut, to a country that still remembers Diana, Princess of Wales and how pretty and polite she was, even as a newlywed forced to watch 40 Newfoundland schoolchildren play the ukulele, badly.And what does he then do? He salts the insult by arriving in the same province of Newfoundland with her replacement and making a speech praising \"the strength of the Canadian character\". This, from an egotist who did his public duty by marrying Diana, but failed to keep his side of the bargain, thus destroying public fondness for the monarchy for generations. No wonder only 57 people showed up to meet the couple on Tuesday.Fling us a Diana, by all means \u2013 in 1983, 1986 and 1991, she delighted us \u2013 but we shall toss Camilla over the parapet the way the French threw cows at the Monty Pythonists.If Charles likes our character, I am minded to question it. If the Canadian character is stalwart, as Charles seems to define it militarily, we are about as enthused about our pointless mission in Afghanistan as the Americans are, or indeed the Brits. We flatly refused to go to Iraq in the first place. Therefore we are not stalwart.Are we dour? Yes, undoubtedly so. On Sunday I bought a bouquet of flowers for my neighbour's 90th birthday and walked into the ice-cream shop next door \u2013 it has a wonderful fug of fudge and chocolate \u2013 for two tubs of the macaroon variety. \"Aaaargh!\" a woman screamed. \"It's either your perfume or the flowers but you're making me sick!\" She rushed out of the store in hysterics. Ah, allergy politics.I was flummoxed. In Paris, you get blanked if you're not fragrant and bearing blossoms, but in Toronto if you're not wrinkle-enhanced, makeup-free, armpit-oozing and wearing that hideous Canadian classic, brown Lululemon yoga pants, you are not a woman.Was Charles praising this dourness, perhaps in hope that we'd haul Camilla to our breasts? If so, he got us wrong again.Are we polite? I used to think so, but the online comments of Canadians about the royal family place us only slightly below the level of vitriol of US Fox News viewers.Later in the tour he visits Montreal. French Quebecers, with justice, despise the British royals as much as they despise Ottawa and its current Conservative minority government. Inviting him was a calculated slap in the face to Canada's French population. What is the French character? Forthright if not sizzling. I look forward to its flowering in Montreal this week.Weirdly, the thing that most upsets Canadians about Charles is the notion of this jug-eared fool ending up on our currency. We can take the Queen's face (although schoolchildren do that folding trick with the $20 bill that turns her face into a bum) but we draw the line at Chuck.Money is somehow personal. The EU went bland with the euro to keep Europe happy. \"Gates!\" they said. \"Everyone loves gates!\" As I riffle though my wallet, I see Canada went for cosy. There are children playing hockey, an Inuit sculpture, oh look \u2013 a gate, and a menagerie on the coins: a beaver, a caribou and a polar bear.My editor asks, somewhat acidly, how any country that puts a bird called a loon on its dollar coin can object to Charles.And here we have found ourselves. The loon is the essence of the Canadian character. Only those who have never heard a loon call out across a vast lake on a still night can doubt its poetry. It is a wild call and a clear call, like John Masefield's, but unlike his, it's alive. It is a call of solitude and yearning, of the stops along the way to death. It speaks of a vast heartless cold landscape and the greatest aim of Canadians which is, as Margaret Atwood once pointed out, survival.We don't aim higher than that. It's a work of cunning if not genius to survive a Canadian winter. Hey, we do have a character after all!A loon is its blessed symbol and it has nothing to do with a silly man coddled like a buttered egg from birth who throws objects at his servants and screams: \"I will be your king!\"No, you won't, Charles, not if Canadians have anything to say about it.", "tags": ["Prince Charles", "Canada", "Monarchy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada prefers a loon to Charles  | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2009-12-14T17:18:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Yes Men - or somebody suspiciously like them have struck again and this time the victim was Canada.And who better? The Canadians have emerged as the villain of the climate change negotiations for pumping out greenhouse gas emissions with the full-on exploitation of the Alberta tar sands.In the Yes Men's first transatlantic action, an email purported to be an official Environment Canada press release this afternoon announced an incredibly ambitious plan to cut carbon emissions by 40% below 1990 levels by 2020. It also went on to commit Canada to paying 1% and eventually up to 5% of its GDP in 2030 to help poor countries adapt to climate change.\"Canada is taking the long view on the world economy,\" the fake press release said, attributing the statement to the environment minister, Jim Prentice. \"Nobody benefits from a world in peril. Contributing to the development of other nations and taking full responsibilities for our emissions is simple Canadian good sense. We want to show the world that Canada is a leader on climate change.\"That would make a nice change. The Canadians have been regularly vilified by NGOs at Copenhagen, getting a Fossil of the Day Award for obstructing the talks.Today's hoax was fairly detailed. The initial email was followed up by a phoney press release from the Uganda delegation and a link to a video of a press conference on a phoney version of the official Copenhagen climate meeting site.\"This is a day that will define our century,\" the fake Ugandan official said in the press release. But there was no sense of celebration in the video, in which the fake Ugandan official scolded the Canadians. \"You are holding a loaded gun to our heads,\" said the official. \"You left us no choice but to see you as criminals.\"There was even a spoof write-up in the Wall Street Journal The flourish was a reminder of the Yes Men's last hoax: a US Chamber of Commerce press conference at the National Press Club in Washington. A number of news organisations fell for that stunt.In a reminder of that gaffe, the fake Journal article said it based its account on \"at least one source\".But as the real Jim Prentice told reporters later today: \"The press release was a hoax.\" He called the stunt \"undesirable\".UPDATE: A hoax within a hoax within a hoax. A new email dropped late tonight - this time claiming to be from Canada's environment ministry in Ottawa - ticking off the pranksters for making fun of the Ugandan bureaucrats.It was the third faux email of the day.In an email headed \"Tragic Ugandan Reaction to False \"Canada\" Announcement\", the perpetrators of the hoax took themselves to task for their sham video of Ugandan negotiators. \"Environment Canada wishes to stress that the Ugandan delegation's impassioned response to the announcement is a dramatic tragedy for those who stand to suffer the most,\" the email said.\"It is the height of cruelty, hypocrisy, and immorality to infuse with false hopes the spirit of people who are already, and will additionally, bear the brunt of climate change's terrible human effects.\"An Environment Canada spokesman said late last night that that email too was a hoax.In an email, the spokesman said all three emails originated from an apparently fake site. \"Enviro-Canada.ca is not in anyway affiliated with the Government of Canada,\" the email said. \"Environment' Canada's website is www.ec.gc.ca and Canada's Action on Climate Change website is www.climatechange.gc.caThe press release entitled \"Tragic Ugandan Reaction to False \"Canada\" Announcement\" originates from this fake site.\"", "tags": ["Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Environment", "World news", "Canada", "Global climate talks", "Americas"], "title": "Copenhagen spoof shames Canada on the truth about its emissions | Suzanne Goldenberg"},{"date": "2009-10-27T14:50:14Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A boring press release arrives from Swiss International Airlines, heralding the launch of a new service from Zurich to the Canadian cities of Calgary and Vancouver. But wait! What are these strange annotations in the margin?The airline's announcement says that \"Calgary and Vancouver, which are both located in southern Canada, are major destinations not only for their growing tourist popularity\". But the reference to \"southern Canada\" has struck a dull note with somebody within Swiss, who clearly thinks of Canada as frozen tundra and who has added a caustic electronic note in the margin saying: \"Well, yes, but most of the rest of the country is pretty much uninhabited!\"The release also notes that the weekly Edelweiss flight leaves Switzerland for Canada at 9.25 every Monday morning and arrives back in Zurich at 9.55 on Tuesday mornings. But it doesn't detail departure times from Canada. The commentator in the margin has remarked: \"This is a very Zurich-centric view! Why not give the other departure times, too?\"Oh, the perils of email. This is hardly the ideal start in winning over Canadian travellers. An apologetic Swiss International spokesman, Jean-Claude Donzel, says: \"Something went wrong with the sending of the press release. This was not the final version.\"", "tags": ["Business", "Airline industry", "Switzerland", "Canada", "Marketing & PR", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Swiss airline red-faced over 'uninhabited' Canada quip"},{"date": "2009-10-29T17:34:34Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In the far north latitudes, buried within a seemingly endless expanse of evergreen forests, the authorities in Canada are building up one of the world's best natural defences against global warming.In a series of initiatives, Canadian provincial governments and aboriginal leaders have set aside vast tracts of coniferous woods, wetlands, and peat. The conservation drive bans logging, mining, and oil drilling on some 250m acres \u2013 an area more than twice the size of California.The sheer scale of the forest conservation drive is somewhat of an anomaly for Canada, whose government has been accused of sabotaging the global climate change talks by its development of the Alberta tar sands and its refusal to make deep cuts in its greenhouse gas emissions.Last week, a former adviser to Barack Obama urged Canada to do more to keep up with America's moves towards a cleaner energy economy.In the latest addition to the carbon storehouse, the provincial premier of Manitoba, Gary Doer, this month announced a $10m (\u00a35.6m) Canadian fund to protect a 10.8m acre expanse of boreal or evergreen forest. It was one of Doer's last acts as premier; he took over as Canada's ambassador to Washington this month.The $10m will go towards efforts by indigenous leaders to designate boreal forest lands in eastern Manitoba as a Unesco world heritage site. The Pimachiowin Aki world heritage project, which straddles the Manitoba-Ontario border, extends efforts by Canadian provincial leaders to protect the wide swaths of pristine forests in the north. It also ensures the survival of one of the best natural defences against global warming after the world's oceans, environmentalists say.A report by the International Boreal Conservation Campaign said the forests, with their rich mix of trees, wetlands, peat and tundra, were a far bigger carbon store than scientists had realised, soaking up 22% of the total carbon stored on the earth's land surface.\"If you look across Canada one of [the boreal forest's] great values to us globally is its carbon storage value,\" said Steve Kallick, director of the Pew Environment Group's International Boreal Conservation Campaign. \"There is so much carbon sequestered in it already that if it escaped it would pose a whole new, very grave threat.\"Canada's cold temperatures slow decomposition, allowing the build-up of organic soil and peat. The forest floors beneath its evergreens hold twice as much carbon per acre as tropical forests, such as the Amazon.It is unclear how long Canada's forests can continue to serve as carbon vaults. \"As the climate warms, the place is going to dry up. There will be a problem with insect infestation. There is going to be increased natural carbon release due to fire or wetlands drying up,\" said Sue Libenson, a spokeswoman for the International Boreal Conservation Campaign.But she added: \"The general premise is that there is still a hell of a lot of carbon in there.\" Its release would be a climate catastrophe.Canada's 1.3bn acres of boreal forest store the equivalent of 27 years' worth of current global greenhouse gas emissions, a Greenpeace study found. The destruction of those forests, scientists warn, would be like setting off a massive \"carbon bomb\" because of the sudden release of emissions.That threat appears to have concentrated the official mindset in Canada, which otherwise has a poor record on action on climate change. On a per capita basis, the country is one of the worst polluters on the planet, producing about 2% of the world's emissions even though it has just 33m people. It holds one of the worst track records among industrialised states for living up to its commitment under the Kyoto accords. By 2007, greenhouse gas emissions were 34% above the target Canada agreed at Kyoto.Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper, is resisting doing much more, committing to just a 6% cut over 1990 levels of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. \"I see Harper's policy as a continuation of the Bush agenda,\" said David Martin, climate director for Greenpeace Canada.A key advisor to Obama made a similar point last week, comparing Canada's current climate change policy to the inaction in America under George Bush. \"The Canadians would be well served by keeping up with what's going on in the United States with respect to this push towards clean technology,\" John Podesta, who oversaw Obama's transition team, told a conference in Ottawa.Environmentalists also fear that Harper intends to exclude the Alberta tar sands \u2013 the heavy crude deposits that have fuelled the rise in emissions \u2013 from any future greenhouse gas emissions regime.But the Harper government did relent on forest protection, working with the Sahtu and Deh Cho First Nations to set aside 40m acres in the Northwest Territories.Canadian provincial leaders have moved even more aggressively in recent years, with Ontario committed to protecting 55m acres, or about half of its forest, and Quebec committed to protecting 150m acres. \"Canada is torn between wanting to promote the tar sands and make money off it now, and wanting to live up to its promises under the Kyoto accord. But as far as protecting carbon rich ecosystems, particularly the boreal forest, Canada is a world leader,\" said Kallick.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Conservation", "Environment", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada sets aside its boreal forest as giant carbon vault"},{"date": "2009-11-16T00:58:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Gordon Brown is to offer a formal apology to tens of thousands of British children forcibly sent to Commonwealth countries during the last century, many of whom faced abuse and a regime of unpaid labour rather than the better life they were promised.The prime minister plans to make the apology in the new year after discussions with charities representing former child migrants and their families, a Downing Street spokeswoman said today.In a letter to a Labour MP who has campaigned on the issue, Brown said that the \"time is now right\" for an apology, adding: \"It is important that we take the time to listen to the voices of the survivors and victims of these misguided policies.\"Government records show that at least 150,000 children aged between three and 14 were taken abroad, mainly to Australia and Canada, in a programme that began in the 1920s and did not stop until 1967.The children, almost invariably from deprived backgrounds and already in some form of social or charitable care, were cut off from their families or even falsely informed that they were orphans.While their parents were told the child migrants had gone to a better life, in many cases they remained in institutions or were sent to farming families and treated as unpaid labour, and many faced abuse. A key subtext to the programme, particularly in relation to Australia, was the aim of supplying Commonwealth countries with sufficient \"white stock\".Brown's apology follows other recent government expressions of regret for past policies now seen as inhumane. Soon after Tony Blair took power in 1997, Blair apologised to Irish people for the country's potato famine 150 years before. Ten years later he expressed sorrow for the UK's role in the slave trade, although his words fell short of the unconditional apology demanded by campaigners.While some critics dismissed these as meaningless stunts given the passage of time involved, many of those sent away as part of the Child Migrants Programme are still alive, with about 7,000 living in Australia alone. Sandra Anker, who was sent there from Britain in 1950, aged six, told the BBC she remained deeply angry at what had happened.\"Why I was sent out is beyond me. I don't understand it. I was deprived of my rights as a British citizen and I feel the British government have a lot to answer for,\" she said. \"We've suffered all our lives. For the government of England to say sorry to us, it makes it right. Even if it's late, it's better than not at all.\"News of Brown's move came as Australia's prime minister, Kevin Rudd, this morning made a wider apology to the estimated 500,000 children, many from overseas, who were held in orphanages and other institutions around that country between 1930 and 1970. Rudd \u2013 who in 2008 made a landmark apology to the so-called \"stolen generations\" of aboriginal children forcibly removed from their parents \u2013 addressed about 900 former child migrants at the parliament building in Canberra.He apologised to thousands of British children who suffered abuse and neglect after being shipped to Australia. \"We are sorry,\" Rudd said. \"Sorry that as children you were taken from your families and placed in institutions where so often you were abused. Sorry for the physical suffering, the emotional starvation and the cold absence of love, of tenderness, of care. Sorry for the tragedy the absolute tragedy of childhoods lost.\"The British high commissioner in Australia, the former Labour minister Lady Amos, said the next stage would be for the government to work with the Child Migrants Trust, which campaigns on the issue, on a wording for the apology. The trust's founder, Margaret Humphreys, is in Canberra to hear Rudd's apology. She said: \"This is a significant moment in the history of child migration. The recognition is vital if people are to recover.\"The issue of the UK child migrants was investigated in 1998 by the Commons health select committee, a process which led to the Department of Health drawing up guidance for families to trace those sent away. Kevin Barron, the Labour MP who chairs the committee, said he had received a letter from Brown outlining the planned apology and was \"very pleased\".Ed Balls, the children's secretary, said yesterday the child migrant programme was \"a stain on our society\".\"I think it is important that we say to the children who are now adults and older people, and to their offspring, that this is something that we look back on in shame,\" he said.A health department document drawn up for migrants' families describes how a number of organisations, including Barnardo's, the Salvation Army, the Children's Society and some Catholic groups, were involved in sending children abroad.", "tags": ["Children", "Australia news", "Canada", "Gordon Brown", "World news", "UK news", "Politics", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Brown to apologise to care home children sent to Australia and Canada"},{"date": "2009-11-05T08:03:40Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Whoa, say the second group \u2013 this allows the coal industry to hold the world to ransom and the conserative NGOs are actually weakening the US negotiators' hand. Without wanting to blunder into a domestic row, outsiders here ask whether the NGOs would be so accomodating to the US if it had George W as president. Meanwhile, the lack of a coherent US civil society voice is starting to dismay the Europeans, south Americans and Asians.If Canada can \"prove\" that it has emissions lower than what it projected it might, then it will be allowed to claim carbon credits for these, even if its overall emissions actually increase. That's the level of skulduggery by so called green countries here.Yesterday, groups from Bangladesh, Benin, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Congo, Ivory Coast, Ethiopia, Gabon, and 10 other countries accused it of using wrecking tactics to prevent a deal which would hurt its oil interests.\"They have tried to remove language that would support vulnerable countries; they delayed progress on adaptation discussions; and they have been the only country to say that there is no need to agree on a numerical global goal for emission reduction,\" says an aggrieved observer.To rub salt in, Saudi diplomats yesterday complainied that the richest, most-polluting oil rich nation in the world was being asked to pay more than its fair share in the proposed deal.", "tags": ["Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Kyoto protocol", "Global climate talks"], "title": "Barcelona diary: The USual suspects, paper trail on forests, and dirty Canada"},{"date": "2009-11-26T22:54:37Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Prominent campaigners, politicians and scientists have called for Canada to be suspended from the Commonwealth over its climate change policies.The coalition's demand came before this weekend's Commonwealth heads of government summit in Trinidad and Tobago, at which global warming will top the agenda, and next month's UN climate conference in Copenhagen. Despite criticism of Canada's environmental policies, the prime minister, Stephen Harper, is to attend the Copenhagen summit. His spokesman said today: \"We will be attending the Copenhagen meeting \u2026 a critical mass of world leaders will be attending.\"Canada's per capita greenhouse gas emissions are among the world's highest and it will not meet the cut required under the Kyoto protocol: by 2007 its emissions were 34% above its reduction target. It is exploiting its vast tar sands reserves to produce oil, a process said to cause at least three times the emissions of conventional oil extraction.The coalition claims Canada is contributing to droughts, floods and sea level rises in Commonwealth countries such as Bangladesh, the Maldives and Mozambique. Clare Short, the former international development secretary, said: \"Countries that fail to help [tackle global warming] should be suspended from membership, as are those that breach human rights.\"The World Development Movement, the Polaris Institute in Canada and Greenpeace are among the organisations supporting the plan. Saleemul Huq, a lead author for the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, said: \"If the Commonwealth is serious about holding its members to account, then threatening the lives of millions of people in developing countries should lead to the suspension of Canada's membership immediately.\"Canada's environment department refused to comment on the call for it to be suspended.The Commonwealth comprises 53 states representing 2 billion people. In the past it has suspended Pakistan, Zimbabwe, Nigeria and South Africa for electoral or human rights reasons. Speaking earlier this week, its secretary general, Kamalesh Sharma, said: \"I would like to think that our definition of serious violations could embrace much more than it does now.\"", "tags": ["Climate change", "Canada", "World news", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Americas"], "title": "Scientists target Canada over climate change"},{"date": "2009-11-04T15:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Most Canadians want to dump the British monarchy and change the constitutional system that may otherwise saddle them with a bewildered King Charles as head of state. We are emphatic about it, and have gone into the intensity of our dislike in two new polls in some detail. The courtiers fret.So what do you do, Britain, old sock old bean old pal? You send him here, at our expense, and he brings his second wife with him, she with the weird Prince Valiant haircut, to a country that still remembers Diana, Princess of Wales and how pretty and polite she was, even as a newlywed forced to watch 40 Newfoundland schoolchildren play the ukulele, badly.And what does he then do? He salts the insult by arriving in the same province of Newfoundland with her replacement and making a speech praising \"the strength of the Canadian character\". This, from an egotist who did his public duty by marrying Diana, but failed to keep his side of the bargain, thus destroying public fondness for the monarchy for generations. No wonder only 57 people showed up to meet the couple on Tuesday.Fling us a Diana, by all means \u2013 in 1983, 1986 and 1991, she delighted us \u2013 but we shall toss Camilla over the parapet the way the French threw cows at the Monty Pythonists.If Charles likes our character, I am minded to question it. If the Canadian character is stalwart, as Charles seems to define it militarily, we are about as enthused about our pointless mission in Afghanistan as the Americans are, or indeed the Brits. We flatly refused to go to Iraq in the first place. Therefore we are not stalwart.Are we dour? Yes, undoubtedly so. On Sunday I bought a bouquet of flowers for my neighbour's 90th birthday and walked into the ice-cream shop next door \u2013 it has a wonderful fug of fudge and chocolate \u2013 for two tubs of the macaroon variety. \"Aaaargh!\" a woman screamed. \"It's either your perfume or the flowers but you're making me sick!\" She rushed out of the store in hysterics. Ah, allergy politics.I was flummoxed. In Paris, you get blanked if you're not fragrant and bearing blossoms, but in Toronto if you're not wrinkle-enhanced, makeup-free, armpit-oozing and wearing that hideous Canadian classic, brown Lululemon yoga pants, you are not a woman.Was Charles praising this dourness, perhaps in hope that we'd haul Camilla to our breasts? If so, he got us wrong again.Are we polite? I used to think so, but the online comments of Canadians about the royal family place us only slightly below the level of vitriol of US Fox News viewers.Later in the tour he visits Montreal. French Quebecers, with justice, despise the British royals as much as they despise Ottawa and its current Conservative minority government. Inviting him was a calculated slap in the face to Canada's French population. What is the French character? Forthright if not sizzling. I look forward to its flowering in Montreal this week.Weirdly, the thing that most upsets Canadians about Charles is the notion of this jug-eared fool ending up on our currency. We can take the Queen's face (although schoolchildren do that folding trick with the $20 bill that turns her face into a bum) but we draw the line at Chuck.Money is somehow personal. The EU went bland with the euro to keep Europe happy. \"Gates!\" they said. \"Everyone loves gates!\" As I riffle though my wallet, I see Canada went for cosy. There are children playing hockey, an Inuit sculpture, oh look \u2013 a gate, and a menagerie on the coins: a beaver, a caribou and a polar bear.My editor asks, somewhat acidly, how any country that puts a bird called a loon on its dollar coin can object to Charles.And here we have found ourselves. The loon is the essence of the Canadian character. Only those who have never heard a loon call out across a vast lake on a still night can doubt its poetry. It is a wild call and a clear call, like John Masefield's, but unlike his, it's alive. It is a call of solitude and yearning, of the stops along the way to death. It speaks of a vast heartless cold landscape and the greatest aim of Canadians which is, as Margaret Atwood once pointed out, survival.We don't aim higher than that. It's a work of cunning if not genius to survive a Canadian winter. Hey, we do have a character after all!A loon is its blessed symbol and it has nothing to do with a silly man coddled like a buttered egg from birth who throws objects at his servants and screams: \"I will be your king!\"No, you won't, Charles, not if Canadians have anything to say about it.", "tags": ["Prince Charles", "Canada", "Monarchy", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada prefers a loon to Charles  | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2009-12-14T17:18:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Yes Men - or somebody suspiciously like them have struck again and this time the victim was Canada.And who better? The Canadians have emerged as the villain of the climate change negotiations for pumping out greenhouse gas emissions with the full-on exploitation of the Alberta tar sands.In the Yes Men's first transatlantic action, an email purported to be an official Environment Canada press release this afternoon announced an incredibly ambitious plan to cut carbon emissions by 40% below 1990 levels by 2020. It also went on to commit Canada to paying 1% and eventually up to 5% of its GDP in 2030 to help poor countries adapt to climate change.\"Canada is taking the long view on the world economy,\" the fake press release said, attributing the statement to the environment minister, Jim Prentice. \"Nobody benefits from a world in peril. Contributing to the development of other nations and taking full responsibilities for our emissions is simple Canadian good sense. We want to show the world that Canada is a leader on climate change.\"That would make a nice change. The Canadians have been regularly vilified by NGOs at Copenhagen, getting a Fossil of the Day Award for obstructing the talks.Today's hoax was fairly detailed. The initial email was followed up by a phoney press release from the Uganda delegation and a link to a video of a press conference on a phoney version of the official Copenhagen climate meeting site.\"This is a day that will define our century,\" the fake Ugandan official said in the press release. But there was no sense of celebration in the video, in which the fake Ugandan official scolded the Canadians. \"You are holding a loaded gun to our heads,\" said the official. \"You left us no choice but to see you as criminals.\"There was even a spoof write-up in the Wall Street Journal The flourish was a reminder of the Yes Men's last hoax: a US Chamber of Commerce press conference at the National Press Club in Washington. A number of news organisations fell for that stunt.In a reminder of that gaffe, the fake Journal article said it based its account on \"at least one source\".But as the real Jim Prentice told reporters later today: \"The press release was a hoax.\" He called the stunt \"undesirable\".UPDATE: A hoax within a hoax within a hoax. A new email dropped late tonight - this time claiming to be from Canada's environment ministry in Ottawa - ticking off the pranksters for making fun of the Ugandan bureaucrats.It was the third faux email of the day.In an email headed \"Tragic Ugandan Reaction to False \"Canada\" Announcement\", the perpetrators of the hoax took themselves to task for their sham video of Ugandan negotiators. \"Environment Canada wishes to stress that the Ugandan delegation's impassioned response to the announcement is a dramatic tragedy for those who stand to suffer the most,\" the email said.\"It is the height of cruelty, hypocrisy, and immorality to infuse with false hopes the spirit of people who are already, and will additionally, bear the brunt of climate change's terrible human effects.\"An Environment Canada spokesman said late last night that that email too was a hoax.In an email, the spokesman said all three emails originated from an apparently fake site. \"Enviro-Canada.ca is not in anyway affiliated with the Government of Canada,\" the email said. \"Environment' Canada's website is www.ec.gc.ca and Canada's Action on Climate Change website is www.climatechange.gc.caThe press release entitled \"Tragic Ugandan Reaction to False \"Canada\" Announcement\" originates from this fake site.\"", "tags": ["Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Climate change", "Environment", "World news", "Canada", "Global climate talks", "Americas"], "title": "Copenhagen spoof shames Canada on the truth about its emissions | Suzanne Goldenberg"},{"date": "2009-10-27T14:50:14Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A boring press release arrives from Swiss International Airlines, heralding the launch of a new service from Zurich to the Canadian cities of Calgary and Vancouver. But wait! What are these strange annotations in the margin?The airline's announcement says that \"Calgary and Vancouver, which are both located in southern Canada, are major destinations not only for their growing tourist popularity\". But the reference to \"southern Canada\" has struck a dull note with somebody within Swiss, who clearly thinks of Canada as frozen tundra and who has added a caustic electronic note in the margin saying: \"Well, yes, but most of the rest of the country is pretty much uninhabited!\"The release also notes that the weekly Edelweiss flight leaves Switzerland for Canada at 9.25 every Monday morning and arrives back in Zurich at 9.55 on Tuesday mornings. But it doesn't detail departure times from Canada. The commentator in the margin has remarked: \"This is a very Zurich-centric view! Why not give the other departure times, too?\"Oh, the perils of email. This is hardly the ideal start in winning over Canadian travellers. An apologetic Swiss International spokesman, Jean-Claude Donzel, says: \"Something went wrong with the sending of the press release. This was not the final version.\"", "tags": ["Business", "Airline industry", "Switzerland", "Canada", "Marketing & PR", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "Swiss airline red-faced over 'uninhabited' Canada quip"},{"date": "2009-10-29T17:34:34Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In the far north latitudes, buried within a seemingly endless expanse of evergreen forests, the authorities in Canada are building up one of the world's best natural defences against global warming.In a series of initiatives, Canadian provincial governments and aboriginal leaders have set aside vast tracts of coniferous woods, wetlands, and peat. The conservation drive bans logging, mining, and oil drilling on some 250m acres \u2013 an area more than twice the size of California.The sheer scale of the forest conservation drive is somewhat of an anomaly for Canada, whose government has been accused of sabotaging the global climate change talks by its development of the Alberta tar sands and its refusal to make deep cuts in its greenhouse gas emissions.Last week, a former adviser to Barack Obama urged Canada to do more to keep up with America's moves towards a cleaner energy economy.In the latest addition to the carbon storehouse, the provincial premier of Manitoba, Gary Doer, this month announced a $10m (\u00a35.6m) Canadian fund to protect a 10.8m acre expanse of boreal or evergreen forest. It was one of Doer's last acts as premier; he took over as Canada's ambassador to Washington this month.The $10m will go towards efforts by indigenous leaders to designate boreal forest lands in eastern Manitoba as a Unesco world heritage site. The Pimachiowin Aki world heritage project, which straddles the Manitoba-Ontario border, extends efforts by Canadian provincial leaders to protect the wide swaths of pristine forests in the north. It also ensures the survival of one of the best natural defences against global warming after the world's oceans, environmentalists say.A report by the International Boreal Conservation Campaign said the forests, with their rich mix of trees, wetlands, peat and tundra, were a far bigger carbon store than scientists had realised, soaking up 22% of the total carbon stored on the earth's land surface.\"If you look across Canada one of [the boreal forest's] great values to us globally is its carbon storage value,\" said Steve Kallick, director of the Pew Environment Group's International Boreal Conservation Campaign. \"There is so much carbon sequestered in it already that if it escaped it would pose a whole new, very grave threat.\"Canada's cold temperatures slow decomposition, allowing the build-up of organic soil and peat. The forest floors beneath its evergreens hold twice as much carbon per acre as tropical forests, such as the Amazon.It is unclear how long Canada's forests can continue to serve as carbon vaults. \"As the climate warms, the place is going to dry up. There will be a problem with insect infestation. There is going to be increased natural carbon release due to fire or wetlands drying up,\" said Sue Libenson, a spokeswoman for the International Boreal Conservation Campaign.But she added: \"The general premise is that there is still a hell of a lot of carbon in there.\" Its release would be a climate catastrophe.Canada's 1.3bn acres of boreal forest store the equivalent of 27 years' worth of current global greenhouse gas emissions, a Greenpeace study found. The destruction of those forests, scientists warn, would be like setting off a massive \"carbon bomb\" because of the sudden release of emissions.That threat appears to have concentrated the official mindset in Canada, which otherwise has a poor record on action on climate change. On a per capita basis, the country is one of the worst polluters on the planet, producing about 2% of the world's emissions even though it has just 33m people. It holds one of the worst track records among industrialised states for living up to its commitment under the Kyoto accords. By 2007, greenhouse gas emissions were 34% above the target Canada agreed at Kyoto.Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper, is resisting doing much more, committing to just a 6% cut over 1990 levels of greenhouse gas emissions by 2020. \"I see Harper's policy as a continuation of the Bush agenda,\" said David Martin, climate director for Greenpeace Canada.A key advisor to Obama made a similar point last week, comparing Canada's current climate change policy to the inaction in America under George Bush. \"The Canadians would be well served by keeping up with what's going on in the United States with respect to this push towards clean technology,\" John Podesta, who oversaw Obama's transition team, told a conference in Ottawa.Environmentalists also fear that Harper intends to exclude the Alberta tar sands \u2013 the heavy crude deposits that have fuelled the rise in emissions \u2013 from any future greenhouse gas emissions regime.But the Harper government did relent on forest protection, working with the Sahtu and Deh Cho First Nations to set aside 40m acres in the Northwest Territories.Canadian provincial leaders have moved even more aggressively in recent years, with Ontario committed to protecting 55m acres, or about half of its forest, and Quebec committed to protecting 150m acres. \"Canada is torn between wanting to promote the tar sands and make money off it now, and wanting to live up to its promises under the Kyoto accord. But as far as protecting carbon rich ecosystems, particularly the boreal forest, Canada is a world leader,\" said Kallick.", "tags": ["Trees and forests", "Climate change", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Conservation", "Environment", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada sets aside its boreal forest as giant carbon vault"},{"date": "2009-11-16T00:58:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Gordon Brown is to offer a formal apology to tens of thousands of British children forcibly sent to Commonwealth countries during the last century, many of whom faced abuse and a regime of unpaid labour rather than the better life they were promised.The prime minister plans to make the apology in the new year after discussions with charities representing former child migrants and their families, a Downing Street spokeswoman said today.In a letter to a Labour MP who has campaigned on the issue, Brown said that the \"time is now right\" for an apology, adding: \"It is important that we take the time to listen to the voices of the survivors and victims of these misguided policies.\"Government records show that at least 150,000 children aged between three and 14 were taken abroad, mainly to Australia and Canada, in a programme that began in the 1920s and did not stop until 1967.The children, almost invariably from deprived backgrounds and already in some form of social or charitable care, were cut off from their families or even falsely informed that they were orphans.While their parents were told the child migrants had gone to a better life, in many cases they remained in institutions or were sent to farming families and treated as unpaid labour, and many faced abuse. A key subtext to the programme, particularly in relation to Australia, was the aim of supplying Commonwealth countries with sufficient \"white stock\".Brown's apology follows other recent government expressions of regret for past policies now seen as inhumane. Soon after Tony Blair took power in 1997, Blair apologised to Irish people for the country's potato famine 150 years before. Ten years later he expressed sorrow for the UK's role in the slave trade, although his words fell short of the unconditional apology demanded by campaigners.While some critics dismissed these as meaningless stunts given the passage of time involved, many of those sent away as part of the Child Migrants Programme are still alive, with about 7,000 living in Australia alone. Sandra Anker, who was sent there from Britain in 1950, aged six, told the BBC she remained deeply angry at what had happened.\"Why I was sent out is beyond me. I don't understand it. I was deprived of my rights as a British citizen and I feel the British government have a lot to answer for,\" she said. \"We've suffered all our lives. For the government of England to say sorry to us, it makes it right. Even if it's late, it's better than not at all.\"News of Brown's move came as Australia's prime minister, Kevin Rudd, this morning made a wider apology to the estimated 500,000 children, many from overseas, who were held in orphanages and other institutions around that country between 1930 and 1970. Rudd \u2013 who in 2008 made a landmark apology to the so-called \"stolen generations\" of aboriginal children forcibly removed from their parents \u2013 addressed about 900 former child migrants at the parliament building in Canberra.He apologised to thousands of British children who suffered abuse and neglect after being shipped to Australia. \"We are sorry,\" Rudd said. \"Sorry that as children you were taken from your families and placed in institutions where so often you were abused. Sorry for the physical suffering, the emotional starvation and the cold absence of love, of tenderness, of care. Sorry for the tragedy the absolute tragedy of childhoods lost.\"The British high commissioner in Australia, the former Labour minister Lady Amos, said the next stage would be for the government to work with the Child Migrants Trust, which campaigns on the issue, on a wording for the apology. The trust's founder, Margaret Humphreys, is in Canberra to hear Rudd's apology. She said: \"This is a significant moment in the history of child migration. The recognition is vital if people are to recover.\"The issue of the UK child migrants was investigated in 1998 by the Commons health select committee, a process which led to the Department of Health drawing up guidance for families to trace those sent away. Kevin Barron, the Labour MP who chairs the committee, said he had received a letter from Brown outlining the planned apology and was \"very pleased\".Ed Balls, the children's secretary, said yesterday the child migrant programme was \"a stain on our society\".\"I think it is important that we say to the children who are now adults and older people, and to their offspring, that this is something that we look back on in shame,\" he said.A health department document drawn up for migrants' families describes how a number of organisations, including Barnardo's, the Salvation Army, the Children's Society and some Catholic groups, were involved in sending children abroad.", "tags": ["Children", "Australia news", "Canada", "Gordon Brown", "World news", "UK news", "Politics", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Brown to apologise to care home children sent to Australia and Canada"},{"date": "2009-11-05T08:03:40Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Whoa, say the second group \u2013 this allows the coal industry to hold the world to ransom and the conserative NGOs are actually weakening the US negotiators' hand. Without wanting to blunder into a domestic row, outsiders here ask whether the NGOs would be so accomodating to the US if it had George W as president. Meanwhile, the lack of a coherent US civil society voice is starting to dismay the Europeans, south Americans and Asians.If Canada can \"prove\" that it has emissions lower than what it projected it might, then it will be allowed to claim carbon credits for these, even if its overall emissions actually increase. That's the level of skulduggery by so called green countries here.Yesterday, groups from Bangladesh, Benin, Brazil, Burkina Faso, Congo, Ivory Coast, Ethiopia, Gabon, and 10 other countries accused it of using wrecking tactics to prevent a deal which would hurt its oil interests.\"They have tried to remove language that would support vulnerable countries; they delayed progress on adaptation discussions; and they have been the only country to say that there is no need to agree on a numerical global goal for emission reduction,\" says an aggrieved observer.To rub salt in, Saudi diplomats yesterday complainied that the richest, most-polluting oil rich nation in the world was being asked to pay more than its fair share in the proposed deal.", "tags": ["Copenhagen climate change conference 2009", "Environment", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Kyoto protocol", "Global climate talks"], "title": "Barcelona diary: The USual suspects, paper trail on forests, and dirty Canada"},{"date": "2009-11-11T18:28:37Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The actor Douglas Campbell, who has died aged 87, made a significant impact in theatre on both sides of the Atlantic. A\u00a0working-class boy from Scotland who rose to play lead roles at the Old Vic, he later became a distinguished and revered actor in Canada. Like his mentor, the director Tyrone Guthrie, he believed passionately in the virtues of the thrust stage for performing Shakespeare, a\u00a0belief that led him to theatres from Stratford, Ontario, to Minneapolis and Sheffield. A socialist, pacifist and vegetarian, he delighted audiences as Falstaff, a character who reflected perfectly his larger-than-life personality and capacity for enjoyment.Campbell was born in Glasgow, where his father Dougald, a friend of\u00a0the Labour leader Keir Hardie, was a postal inspector, and his mother Ethel was an amateur actor and secretary of the Scottish Socialist party. His ambition was to be a painter, but his father discouraged the idea. Kicked out\u00a0of\u00a0school for refusing to wear a gas\u00a0mask because he saw it as a\u00a0preparation for war, he became a\u00a0conscientious objector.He was then taken on by the Old Vic as a driver for its wartime touring companies. Guthrie's production of King John inspired him to become an actor, and in 1942 he joined a company touring north Wales, headed by Sybil Thorndike and Lewis Casson, whose daughter Ann Casson he later married. The actor Miriam Karlin remembers him at this time as \"a real, rough-and-ready, red-haired Scot, a tub-thumping kind of character, but with a great sense of\u00a0humour\".After the war he joined a repertory company in Coventry, which toured small towns in the Midlands. There followed stints at Birmingham Rep and Glasgow Citizens theatre, and several appearances at the Edinburgh festival. In 1951, at Guthrie's invitation, he returned to the Old Vic, and in his second season played Othello, Macbeth, and Theseus in A Midsummer Night's Dream. He went on to play the title roles in Julius Caesar and The Merchant of Venice and, at the Bristol Old Vic, Antony in Antony and Cleopatra.In 1953 he was a founder member of\u00a0the Shakespeare festival in Stratford, Ontario, appearing in Richard III and as Parolles in All's Well That End's Well. He and Ann then moved with their children to Canada, where he became a\u00a0key figure at Stratford in the pioneering work of Guthrie and the designer Tanya Moiseiwitsch. Over the course of 25 seasons there, he directed many plays, his major roles including Oedipus, Othello, Sir Toby Belch (in Twelfth Night), Henry VIII, Falstaff and King Lear. In\u00a01954, to give the actors work outside the festival season, he and Ann set up the Canadian Players, which toured platform-style productions without costumes or scenery to theatre-starved areas. They staged Peer Gynt with two ladders and a plank, and an Inuit King Lear set in the Arctic.In 1963 he followed Guthrie to Minneapolis, where Campbell became assistant director and later artistic director at the Guthrie theatre. He won acclaim by playing Clytemnestra and Athena in Guthrie's masked production of Aeschylus's trilogy Oresteia, retitled The House of Atreus. In Minneapolis, his\u00a0socialism, his commitment to nuclear disarmament and his opposition to the Vietnam war put him at odds with the authorities. He was often harassed at\u00a0the American-Canadian border, and once refused entry.On Broadway he played the title role in Paddy Chayefsky's Gideon, directed an\u00a0adaptation of Moby Dick and appeared in and directed the anthology The Golden Age. He returned occasionally to\u00a0the UK, playing Falstaff and Bottom in A Midsummer Night's Dream at the Old Vic in 1960-61. In 1972 he went as an actor and artistic adviser to the new Crucible theatre in Sheffield. Subsequently, with the actor James Tomlinson, he set up Theatre North to tour provincial theatres in the north of England.Touring was what Campbell thought theatre was about, and he believed firmly in its power to change people. He once described himself as a William Morris socialist. \"Like Morris, I'm interested in\u00a0craft, in doing things well, and living life well.\" The actor Christopher Plummer recalled this side of him: \"As\u00a0a\u00a0lover of\u00a0the night, he\u00a0always managed to outlast any over-zealous drinking competitor who dared challenge his capacity.\"The director Michael Langham, a lifelong friend and colleague at Stratford, saw him as \"a gloriously forthright, honest, full-blooded trouper, given equally to the lyric, the farcical, the tragic and, unexpectedly, the sublimely tender; a team player, loving and encouraging the clannishness and comradeship of a theatre company\".In Who's Who in the Theatre, he listed his recreations as \"fencing, painting, argument and shove ha'penny\". He\u00a0was\u00a0frank about his appearance, once stating: \"I'm not particularly good-looking, I've got a big, bulbous nose, and I'm on the heavy side.\" Fiercely independent, he claimed to have little time for critics. \"I never paid the slightest attention to what they wrote about me,\" he said. \"If I did, it would be difficult to sustain my pacifism.\"At work until the end, he was in rehearsal as the Judge in a Canadian production of Inherit the Wind when he was taken ill. Ann Casson died in 1990. He is survived by their children, Dirk, Teresa, Tom and Benedict, and by his second wife, Moira Wylie, and their children Beatrice and Torquil.\u2022 Douglas Campbell, actor and director, born 11 June 1922; died 6 October 2009", "tags": ["Theatre", "Stage", "William Shakespeare", "Aeschylus", "Culture", "Scotland", "Canada", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Douglas Campbell obituary"},{"date": "2010-01-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "If there was a gold medal for shafting democracy at the Winter Olympics, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper would win it. Just before the games open in Vancouver, he has halted parliament in its tracks, suspending it for the second time in little more than a year.Canada will not have a House of Commons until March 3. Instantly, we are a part-time democracy, a shabby diminished place packed with angry voiceless citizens whose votes have been rendered meaningless. Harper didn't even visit the governor-general of Canada for the formality of asking permission as he did last Christmas. Instead, he phoned her and got his PR man to send out an announcement to the nation.Rage and shame are flowing on the internet because there is nowhere else for voters to turn. Even The Globe and Mail, Canada's national and excessively staid newspaper, had a front-page editorial steaming with reproach. The Globe often leaves me frustrated, but I was moved when I read it and \u2026 did what exactly? I took a stand. I joined a Facebook group called Canadians Against Proroguing Parliament, an earnestly pathetic act that may be part of the reason our nation is so lessened on the first day of 2010.Look, I can't even call my federal MP, a Liberal member of the opposition, because she's effectively out of commission for the next two months. All that's left to me is to tell you what it's like here and why you should care.Harper, that strange vengeful man you will see in February clapping awkwardly as Olympians leap off mountains and shoot past in the luge, has been on a mission since his youth to turn Canada into a pale, watery version of the United States of America. Even then, the US was well into its identity-switch into the undereducated, paranoid, self-destructively aggressive overspent mess we watch now with grim fascination.Why follow failure? His reasons elude me, but he has only just begun his mission of the extreme right. His method: absolute personal control of everything. Unfortunately, he has a free pass \u2013 there is nobody of any stature in his cabinet, and no opposition to speak of. Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff cannot seem to find his place.The specific intent of proroguing parliament was to smother a scandal, to halt a highly embarrassing and public inquiry into the Canadian military \u2013 eight years into its weird little war in Afghanistan \u2013 handing over prisoners to the Afghan \"government\" while knowing they would be tortured. Another reason was to stack the unelected second house, the senate, with five more Conservatives, reshuffle crucial committees and take the country one step closer to complete hard-right majority government.Harper, frustrated by his repeated failure to achieve more than minority rule, nurses a venom not before seen in Canadian politics. Bush and Blair hired people for this purpose; with Harper it is self-contained. He torments whistleblowers even as they win public acclaim, scorns climate change evidence and makes an international fool of us in Copenhagen, is bent on dismantling the national gun registry set up after the 1989 Montreal massacre, plans the same anti-drug mandatory-sentencing laws that bloated and blocked the US jail system, and fires federal watchdogs who disagree with him.Obama's failures have complicated roots but Canada's failures have been deliberately engineered. The Conservatives are mean people. The Conservative Party was not always like this and Canadians are unaccustomed to this level of cruelty and proud ignorance in public life.I am fed up. Powered only by the stoicism on which this winter-bound nation was built \u2013 we aren't even frozen any more, thanks to climate change, we are merely damp \u2013 I went out last night to see in the New Year with two friends who are government scientists (shan't name them, Harper hates civil servants even more than he hates science). One of them, an American, campaigned for Obama in 2008, the same year she took Canadian citizenship.We drank a Sandbanks Estates wine \u2013 tough little Ontario grape \u2013 and toasted a country for which we still have such hopes. I avoided her kind but sceptical eye.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Shafting democracy in Canada | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-01-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "If there was a gold medal for shafting democracy at the Winter Olympics, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper would win it. Just before the games open in Vancouver, he has halted parliament in its tracks, suspending it for the second time in little more than a year.Canada will not have a House of Commons until March 3. Instantly, we are a part-time democracy, a shabby diminished place packed with angry voiceless citizens whose votes have been rendered meaningless. Harper didn't even visit the governor-general of Canada for the formality of asking permission as he did last Christmas. Instead, he phoned her and got his PR man to send out an announcement to the nation.Rage and shame are flowing on the internet because there is nowhere else for voters to turn. Even The Globe and Mail, Canada's national and excessively staid newspaper, had a front-page editorial steaming with reproach. The Globe often leaves me frustrated, but I was moved when I read it and \u2026 did what exactly? I took a stand. I joined a Facebook group called Canadians Against Proroguing Parliament, an earnestly pathetic act that may be part of the reason our nation is so lessened on the first day of 2010.Look, I can't even call my federal MP, a Liberal member of the opposition, because she's effectively out of commission for the next two months. All that's left to me is to tell you what it's like here and why you should care.Harper, that strange vengeful man you will see in February clapping awkwardly as Olympians leap off mountains and shoot past in the luge, has been on a mission since his youth to turn Canada into a pale, watery version of the United States of America. Even then, the US was well into its identity-switch into the undereducated, paranoid, self-destructively aggressive overspent mess we watch now with grim fascination.Why follow failure? His reasons elude me, but he has only just begun his mission of the extreme right. His method: absolute personal control of everything. Unfortunately, he has a free pass \u2013 there is nobody of any stature in his cabinet, and no opposition to speak of. Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff cannot seem to find his place.The specific intent of proroguing parliament was to smother a scandal, to halt a highly embarrassing and public inquiry into the Canadian military \u2013 eight years into its weird little war in Afghanistan \u2013 handing over prisoners to the Afghan \"government\" while knowing they would be tortured. Another reason was to stack the unelected second house, the senate, with five more Conservatives, reshuffle crucial committees and take the country one step closer to complete hard-right majority government.Harper, frustrated by his repeated failure to achieve more than minority rule, nurses a venom not before seen in Canadian politics. Bush and Blair hired people for this purpose; with Harper it is self-contained. He torments whistleblowers even as they win public acclaim, scorns climate change evidence and makes an international fool of us in Copenhagen, is bent on dismantling the national gun registry set up after the 1989 Montreal massacre, plans the same anti-drug mandatory-sentencing laws that bloated and blocked the US jail system, and fires federal watchdogs who disagree with him.Obama's failures have complicated roots but Canada's failures have been deliberately engineered. The Conservatives are mean people. The Conservative Party was not always like this and Canadians are unaccustomed to this level of cruelty and proud ignorance in public life.I am fed up. Powered only by the stoicism on which this winter-bound nation was built \u2013 we aren't even frozen any more, thanks to climate change, we are merely damp \u2013 I went out last night to see in the New Year with two friends who are government scientists (shan't name them, Harper hates civil servants even more than he hates science). One of them, an American, campaigned for Obama in 2008, the same year she took Canadian citizenship.We drank a Sandbanks Estates wine \u2013 tough little Ontario grape \u2013 and toasted a country for which we still have such hopes. I avoided her kind but sceptical eye.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Shafting democracy in Canada | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-01-26T19:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After prime minister Stephen Harper's prorogation of parliament in late December, many Canadians spent much of January expressing their displeasure about the decision. An Ekos poll released mid-month revealed the Conservative party's dip in popularity since Harper's decision to prorogue, and a Facebook group called Canadians Against Proroguing Parliament (Capp) grew exponentially to over 200,000 members. The group encouraged those online to bring their opinions to the street in rallies held nation-wide this past Saturday, and for the most part, they were well attended.As it turned out, in Vancouver (and, it seems, the rest of the country) the rally, while populated by members of the online community, was still dominated by the usual groups. There were the unions, members of the Green party, the Communists \u2013 the same type of people who might be present at the inevitable anti-Olympic rallies next month, and who are regular victims to the derision of anti-protesters. But the key bulk of Canadian voters were still missing, happier to shop on Robson Street than shout slogans.In the Globe and Mail last week, Jeffery Simpson opined: There was a time when the Liberal party stood for three things: a strong central government, an activist state that tried to redistribute income and opportunity, and an internationalist foreign policy.It wasn't just the way the Liberals used to think of themselves. For the most part, a lot of Canadians still feel that way \u2013 that we are an altruistic bunch of globally concerned, socially responsible citizens. It's an image that the Harper Conservatives still promote, and it's one based on humanist principles. The problem with it is that it's not really accurate. This was the inherent problem with the anti-prorogation rallies; they weren't speaking to what Canadians really care about, which is their pockets.When Jean Chretien (a Liberal) won a resounding victory over the Progressive Conservatives in 1993, it was partly due to his promise to rid Canada of the new Goods and Services Tax (GST) that Brian Mulroney had introduced two years prior. For the next 10 years, Chretien repeated his promise again and again, until he finally stepped down amid the sponsorship scandal. When Harper had the chance to run for prime minister, he picked up where Chretien left off, and committed to a 2% decrease of the GST. He won.In the 2008 election, before the global recession had taken hold, Harper won his current minority government by effectively tarring then-Liberal leader Stephane Dion's Green Shift environment plan as a carbon tax, and pounced upon the suggestion that he might raise the GST. The Liberals thought they could appeal to the kind of voter that Jeffery Simpson accidentally describes, but the Tories knew that they could appeal to the kind of voter that actually exists \u2013 the one who would rather have a glorified retail manager at the helm of their government than a leader.In Ottawa on Saturday, current Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff, fresh from a national university speaking tour, addressed the rally on Parliament Hill. His continued failure to inspire Canadians speaks exactly to the true source of our current apathy. In a rousing speech to his party in September, Ignatieff cited the government's failure to \"protect the most vulnerable,\" \"defend healthcare\" and \"create jobs\" as reasons that it should no longer continue. But as it turned out, nobody cared, and the Tories survived by trumpeting the success of their Economic Action Plan.As the Vancouver rally wound its way through the downtown core, it received some response from drivers and on-lookers, mostly by way of a muted car horn or a small cheer. For the most part, though, spectators stared at the signs, trying to make heed of what exactly all the fuss was about. It all looked good: Canadians out on the streets, speaking their minds put forth the image that change is coming. But change only comes in Canada when our wallets are involved.In theory, this weekend's rallies were a success in the same way any political rally is: they received media attention and were well attended. But Canadians are confused. Our national pride \u2013 the same that will be on display during the Winter Games \u2013 is based on socially progressive principles that we no longer really care about; what we really want addressed is our tax dollars. Canada is not unique in this respect, but perhaps it's time we started to accept that.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Change in Canada? Only in our wallets | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2010-01-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "If there was a gold medal for shafting democracy at the Winter Olympics, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper would win it. Just before the games open in Vancouver, he has halted parliament in its tracks, suspending it for the second time in little more than a year.Canada will not have a House of Commons until March 3. Instantly, we are a part-time democracy, a shabby diminished place packed with angry voiceless citizens whose votes have been rendered meaningless. Harper didn't even visit the governor-general of Canada for the formality of asking permission as he did last Christmas. Instead, he phoned her and got his PR man to send out an announcement to the nation.Rage and shame are flowing on the internet because there is nowhere else for voters to turn. Even The Globe and Mail, Canada's national and excessively staid newspaper, had a front-page editorial steaming with reproach. The Globe often leaves me frustrated, but I was moved when I read it and \u2026 did what exactly? I took a stand. I joined a Facebook group called Canadians Against Proroguing Parliament, an earnestly pathetic act that may be part of the reason our nation is so lessened on the first day of 2010.Look, I can't even call my federal MP, a Liberal member of the opposition, because she's effectively out of commission for the next two months. All that's left to me is to tell you what it's like here and why you should care.Harper, that strange vengeful man you will see in February clapping awkwardly as Olympians leap off mountains and shoot past in the luge, has been on a mission since his youth to turn Canada into a pale, watery version of the United States of America. Even then, the US was well into its identity-switch into the undereducated, paranoid, self-destructively aggressive overspent mess we watch now with grim fascination.Why follow failure? His reasons elude me, but he has only just begun his mission of the extreme right. His method: absolute personal control of everything. Unfortunately, he has a free pass \u2013 there is nobody of any stature in his cabinet, and no opposition to speak of. Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff cannot seem to find his place.The specific intent of proroguing parliament was to smother a scandal, to halt a highly embarrassing and public inquiry into the Canadian military \u2013 eight years into its weird little war in Afghanistan \u2013 handing over prisoners to the Afghan \"government\" while knowing they would be tortured. Another reason was to stack the unelected second house, the senate, with five more Conservatives, reshuffle crucial committees and take the country one step closer to complete hard-right majority government.Harper, frustrated by his repeated failure to achieve more than minority rule, nurses a venom not before seen in Canadian politics. Bush and Blair hired people for this purpose; with Harper it is self-contained. He torments whistleblowers even as they win public acclaim, scorns climate change evidence and makes an international fool of us in Copenhagen, is bent on dismantling the national gun registry set up after the 1989 Montreal massacre, plans the same anti-drug mandatory-sentencing laws that bloated and blocked the US jail system, and fires federal watchdogs who disagree with him.Obama's failures have complicated roots but Canada's failures have been deliberately engineered. The Conservatives are mean people. The Conservative Party was not always like this and Canadians are unaccustomed to this level of cruelty and proud ignorance in public life.I am fed up. Powered only by the stoicism on which this winter-bound nation was built \u2013 we aren't even frozen any more, thanks to climate change, we are merely damp \u2013 I went out last night to see in the New Year with two friends who are government scientists (shan't name them, Harper hates civil servants even more than he hates science). One of them, an American, campaigned for Obama in 2008, the same year she took Canadian citizenship.We drank a Sandbanks Estates wine \u2013 tough little Ontario grape \u2013 and toasted a country for which we still have such hopes. I avoided her kind but sceptical eye.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Shafting democracy in Canada | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-01-26T19:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After prime minister Stephen Harper's prorogation of parliament in late December, many Canadians spent much of January expressing their displeasure about the decision. An Ekos poll released mid-month revealed the Conservative party's dip in popularity since Harper's decision to prorogue, and a Facebook group called Canadians Against Proroguing Parliament (Capp) grew exponentially to over 200,000 members. The group encouraged those online to bring their opinions to the street in rallies held nation-wide this past Saturday, and for the most part, they were well attended.As it turned out, in Vancouver (and, it seems, the rest of the country) the rally, while populated by members of the online community, was still dominated by the usual groups. There were the unions, members of the Green party, the Communists \u2013 the same type of people who might be present at the inevitable anti-Olympic rallies next month, and who are regular victims to the derision of anti-protesters. But the key bulk of Canadian voters were still missing, happier to shop on Robson Street than shout slogans.In the Globe and Mail last week, Jeffery Simpson opined: There was a time when the Liberal party stood for three things: a strong central government, an activist state that tried to redistribute income and opportunity, and an internationalist foreign policy.It wasn't just the way the Liberals used to think of themselves. For the most part, a lot of Canadians still feel that way \u2013 that we are an altruistic bunch of globally concerned, socially responsible citizens. It's an image that the Harper Conservatives still promote, and it's one based on humanist principles. The problem with it is that it's not really accurate. This was the inherent problem with the anti-prorogation rallies; they weren't speaking to what Canadians really care about, which is their pockets.When Jean Chretien (a Liberal) won a resounding victory over the Progressive Conservatives in 1993, it was partly due to his promise to rid Canada of the new Goods and Services Tax (GST) that Brian Mulroney had introduced two years prior. For the next 10 years, Chretien repeated his promise again and again, until he finally stepped down amid the sponsorship scandal. When Harper had the chance to run for prime minister, he picked up where Chretien left off, and committed to a 2% decrease of the GST. He won.In the 2008 election, before the global recession had taken hold, Harper won his current minority government by effectively tarring then-Liberal leader Stephane Dion's Green Shift environment plan as a carbon tax, and pounced upon the suggestion that he might raise the GST. The Liberals thought they could appeal to the kind of voter that Jeffery Simpson accidentally describes, but the Tories knew that they could appeal to the kind of voter that actually exists \u2013 the one who would rather have a glorified retail manager at the helm of their government than a leader.In Ottawa on Saturday, current Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff, fresh from a national university speaking tour, addressed the rally on Parliament Hill. His continued failure to inspire Canadians speaks exactly to the true source of our current apathy. In a rousing speech to his party in September, Ignatieff cited the government's failure to \"protect the most vulnerable,\" \"defend healthcare\" and \"create jobs\" as reasons that it should no longer continue. But as it turned out, nobody cared, and the Tories survived by trumpeting the success of their Economic Action Plan.As the Vancouver rally wound its way through the downtown core, it received some response from drivers and on-lookers, mostly by way of a muted car horn or a small cheer. For the most part, though, spectators stared at the signs, trying to make heed of what exactly all the fuss was about. It all looked good: Canadians out on the streets, speaking their minds put forth the image that change is coming. But change only comes in Canada when our wallets are involved.In theory, this weekend's rallies were a success in the same way any political rally is: they received media attention and were well attended. But Canadians are confused. Our national pride \u2013 the same that will be on display during the Winter Games \u2013 is based on socially progressive principles that we no longer really care about; what we really want addressed is our tax dollars. Canada is not unique in this respect, but perhaps it's time we started to accept that.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Change in Canada? Only in our wallets | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2010-03-26T18:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A bookish revolt has erupted in the home of Margaret Atwood, Yann Martel and Michael Ondaatje. A seemingly innocuous plan by Amazon to open a warehouse in Canada has tapped into political anxiety over protection of the country's literary identity from its more powerful neighbour.Booksellers in Canada are urging the Ottawa government to use sweeping cultural protectionist powers to block a proposal by the world's biggest online bookshop to create its first physical presence north of the 49th parallel. The issue has sparked a vigorous debate over cultural \"insecurity\" in Canadian media and legal circles. And it poses a test for prime minister Stephen Harper's avowed desire for free trade.For the last eight years, Canadians have been able to buy books on a Canadian-focused Amazon website, Amazon.ca. But the Seattle-based internet empire has been doing business through a loophole \u2013 by not employing anybody in Canada and using a contractor to ship orders across the border, it has avoided oversight under the 1985 Investment Canada Act, which allows ministerial scrutiny of foreign companies' presence in the country.This month, Amazon declared that it wanted to implant a footprint by creating a distribution centre in Canada. The department of Canadian heritage stepped in, exercising its discretionary power for a formal review, \"to determine if the investment by Amazon.com will be of net benefit to Canada\".Nurturing talent Inevitably, Canadian booksellers are vehemently opposed to Amazon, wary of a multinational competitor with deep pockets. Stephen Cribar, president of the Canadian Booksellers Association, said independent bookshops did a great deal to nurture authors by holding literary readings and by giving prominence to local writers.\"The things independent booksellers are good at \u2013 supporting our communities, supporting local cultures \u2013 could be jeopardised,\" said Cribar.Under strict rules safeguarding Canadian content in radio, television and on bookshelves, there are no leading foreign book chains on Canadian high streets. Only one locally owned retailer, Indigo, has anything approaching a national spread. Cribar said that if the government caved in to Amazon, the landscape would change: \"If they're allowed to do this, it could open the doors to others. We could see Barnes & Noble and Borders in Canada.\"Canadian literature has more than its fair share of talent. The Ontario writer Alice Munro, 77, won last year's Man Booker International prize for her short stories of small-town life. And Yann Martel won the 2002 Booker for his parable about a boy and a tiger on a lifeboat, Life of Pi. The Oscar-winning movie The English Patient was based on a book by Canada's Michael Ondaatje. Even the leader of the opposition, Michael Ignatieff, is an acclaimed writer.Amazon argues that by selling Canadian books in 170 countries it is doing more than anyone to promote local work. The company's vice-president of global policy, Paul Misener, told Toronto's Globe and Mail: \"I don't think anybody is doing anything near this to help disseminate Canadian cultural products generally.\" He added: \"To claim that somehow a US-based company can't help Canadian culture is just proved wrong by the facts.\"It may seem a familiar spat of small retailers against a global behemoth. But Canada's desire to assert a distinct identity can be more acute than elsewhere. Nearly nine out of 10 Canadians live within 100 miles of the US border, putting them a short drive away from the world's dominant superpower. There are 100 million crossings annually of the longest non-militarised frontier in the world. In a newspaper column, one Canadian novelist, Roy MacSkimming, lamented that the encroachment of Amazon amounted to \"Wal-Martization, the law of lowest-cost, lowest-common denominator.\"Andrew Cohen, president of a think-tank dedicated to Canadian identity, the Historica-Dominion Institute, says the issue goes to the heart of a long-standing disquiet in Canada over US influence that dates back long before a free trade pact signed between the two countries by the former prime minister Brian Mulroney in 1988.\"Canada is insecure and it has been for years. It's easily explicable when you're 33 million people sitting next to the world's greatest cultural machine,\" said Cohen, who says his compatriots tend explicitly to stress anything that sets them apart form the US. \"We look for the narcissism of small difference. We've made a whole industry of pointing out ways in which we're different from the US.\"Borders blocked Canada's government has intervened before to block cross-border cultural deals. In 1996, an effort by Heather Reisman, founder of the book chain Indigo, to strike a deal with the US firm Borders was blocked. And strict rules limit foreign ownership of Canadian newspapers and television stations, complicating efforts to restructure the country's biggest news publisher, Canwest, which is in bankruptcy.But the country's conservative administration has a free-trade instinct. In this month's throne speech, which outlines the government's legislative programme, the Harper administration announced it wanted to allow foreign ownership of telecoms and satellite companies. And Ottawa kicked up a huge stink against protectionism last year when the Obama administration inserted \"Buy America\" provisions decreeing that public works funded by its $787bn (\u00a3528bn) economic stimulus package should favour US contractors over foreigners.The fact that Amazon has been doing business in Canada for eight years without a physical presence raises questions of whether protectionism between neighbouring nations is even practical in the digital era. Jeffrey Brown, a competition expert at the Ottawa law firm Stikeman Elliott, said: \"The government's policy in the past has been fairly restrictive when it comes to cultural industries. Is this going to be precedential in nature? It could be, although it's a bit of a special case.\"If Amazon gets the green light, Brown suggests, there could be \"undertakings\" attached to ensure the bookseller does its part in promoting Canadian talent. He said: \"I know it looks a bit mysterious to the rest of the world but Canada has a population of about 33 million and probably about three quarters of us are English speaking. Most of us share a common language with the US, which is a cultural superpower in the world, and when you're right on the doorstep, there can be a perception that your culture is under threat\".", "tags": ["International trade", "Amazon.com", "Books", "Booksellers", "Business", "Canada", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Amazon's move into Canada sparks cultural war with booksellers"},{"date": "2010-01-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "If there was a gold medal for shafting democracy at the Winter Olympics, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper would win it. Just before the games open in Vancouver, he has halted parliament in its tracks, suspending it for the second time in little more than a year.Canada will not have a House of Commons until March 3. Instantly, we are a part-time democracy, a shabby diminished place packed with angry voiceless citizens whose votes have been rendered meaningless. Harper didn't even visit the governor-general of Canada for the formality of asking permission as he did last Christmas. Instead, he phoned her and got his PR man to send out an announcement to the nation.Rage and shame are flowing on the internet because there is nowhere else for voters to turn. Even The Globe and Mail, Canada's national and excessively staid newspaper, had a front-page editorial steaming with reproach. The Globe often leaves me frustrated, but I was moved when I read it and \u2026 did what exactly? I took a stand. I joined a Facebook group called Canadians Against Proroguing Parliament, an earnestly pathetic act that may be part of the reason our nation is so lessened on the first day of 2010.Look, I can't even call my federal MP, a Liberal member of the opposition, because she's effectively out of commission for the next two months. All that's left to me is to tell you what it's like here and why you should care.Harper, that strange vengeful man you will see in February clapping awkwardly as Olympians leap off mountains and shoot past in the luge, has been on a mission since his youth to turn Canada into a pale, watery version of the United States of America. Even then, the US was well into its identity-switch into the undereducated, paranoid, self-destructively aggressive overspent mess we watch now with grim fascination.Why follow failure? His reasons elude me, but he has only just begun his mission of the extreme right. His method: absolute personal control of everything. Unfortunately, he has a free pass \u2013 there is nobody of any stature in his cabinet, and no opposition to speak of. Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff cannot seem to find his place.The specific intent of proroguing parliament was to smother a scandal, to halt a highly embarrassing and public inquiry into the Canadian military \u2013 eight years into its weird little war in Afghanistan \u2013 handing over prisoners to the Afghan \"government\" while knowing they would be tortured. Another reason was to stack the unelected second house, the senate, with five more Conservatives, reshuffle crucial committees and take the country one step closer to complete hard-right majority government.Harper, frustrated by his repeated failure to achieve more than minority rule, nurses a venom not before seen in Canadian politics. Bush and Blair hired people for this purpose; with Harper it is self-contained. He torments whistleblowers even as they win public acclaim, scorns climate change evidence and makes an international fool of us in Copenhagen, is bent on dismantling the national gun registry set up after the 1989 Montreal massacre, plans the same anti-drug mandatory-sentencing laws that bloated and blocked the US jail system, and fires federal watchdogs who disagree with him.Obama's failures have complicated roots but Canada's failures have been deliberately engineered. The Conservatives are mean people. The Conservative Party was not always like this and Canadians are unaccustomed to this level of cruelty and proud ignorance in public life.I am fed up. Powered only by the stoicism on which this winter-bound nation was built \u2013 we aren't even frozen any more, thanks to climate change, we are merely damp \u2013 I went out last night to see in the New Year with two friends who are government scientists (shan't name them, Harper hates civil servants even more than he hates science). One of them, an American, campaigned for Obama in 2008, the same year she took Canadian citizenship.We drank a Sandbanks Estates wine \u2013 tough little Ontario grape \u2013 and toasted a country for which we still have such hopes. I avoided her kind but sceptical eye.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Shafting democracy in Canada | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-01-26T19:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After prime minister Stephen Harper's prorogation of parliament in late December, many Canadians spent much of January expressing their displeasure about the decision. An Ekos poll released mid-month revealed the Conservative party's dip in popularity since Harper's decision to prorogue, and a Facebook group called Canadians Against Proroguing Parliament (Capp) grew exponentially to over 200,000 members. The group encouraged those online to bring their opinions to the street in rallies held nation-wide this past Saturday, and for the most part, they were well attended.As it turned out, in Vancouver (and, it seems, the rest of the country) the rally, while populated by members of the online community, was still dominated by the usual groups. There were the unions, members of the Green party, the Communists \u2013 the same type of people who might be present at the inevitable anti-Olympic rallies next month, and who are regular victims to the derision of anti-protesters. But the key bulk of Canadian voters were still missing, happier to shop on Robson Street than shout slogans.In the Globe and Mail last week, Jeffery Simpson opined: There was a time when the Liberal party stood for three things: a strong central government, an activist state that tried to redistribute income and opportunity, and an internationalist foreign policy.It wasn't just the way the Liberals used to think of themselves. For the most part, a lot of Canadians still feel that way \u2013 that we are an altruistic bunch of globally concerned, socially responsible citizens. It's an image that the Harper Conservatives still promote, and it's one based on humanist principles. The problem with it is that it's not really accurate. This was the inherent problem with the anti-prorogation rallies; they weren't speaking to what Canadians really care about, which is their pockets.When Jean Chretien (a Liberal) won a resounding victory over the Progressive Conservatives in 1993, it was partly due to his promise to rid Canada of the new Goods and Services Tax (GST) that Brian Mulroney had introduced two years prior. For the next 10 years, Chretien repeated his promise again and again, until he finally stepped down amid the sponsorship scandal. When Harper had the chance to run for prime minister, he picked up where Chretien left off, and committed to a 2% decrease of the GST. He won.In the 2008 election, before the global recession had taken hold, Harper won his current minority government by effectively tarring then-Liberal leader Stephane Dion's Green Shift environment plan as a carbon tax, and pounced upon the suggestion that he might raise the GST. The Liberals thought they could appeal to the kind of voter that Jeffery Simpson accidentally describes, but the Tories knew that they could appeal to the kind of voter that actually exists \u2013 the one who would rather have a glorified retail manager at the helm of their government than a leader.In Ottawa on Saturday, current Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff, fresh from a national university speaking tour, addressed the rally on Parliament Hill. His continued failure to inspire Canadians speaks exactly to the true source of our current apathy. In a rousing speech to his party in September, Ignatieff cited the government's failure to \"protect the most vulnerable,\" \"defend healthcare\" and \"create jobs\" as reasons that it should no longer continue. But as it turned out, nobody cared, and the Tories survived by trumpeting the success of their Economic Action Plan.As the Vancouver rally wound its way through the downtown core, it received some response from drivers and on-lookers, mostly by way of a muted car horn or a small cheer. For the most part, though, spectators stared at the signs, trying to make heed of what exactly all the fuss was about. It all looked good: Canadians out on the streets, speaking their minds put forth the image that change is coming. But change only comes in Canada when our wallets are involved.In theory, this weekend's rallies were a success in the same way any political rally is: they received media attention and were well attended. But Canadians are confused. Our national pride \u2013 the same that will be on display during the Winter Games \u2013 is based on socially progressive principles that we no longer really care about; what we really want addressed is our tax dollars. Canada is not unique in this respect, but perhaps it's time we started to accept that.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Change in Canada? Only in our wallets | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2010-03-26T18:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A bookish revolt has erupted in the home of Margaret Atwood, Yann Martel and Michael Ondaatje. A seemingly innocuous plan by Amazon to open a warehouse in Canada has tapped into political anxiety over protection of the country's literary identity from its more powerful neighbour.Booksellers in Canada are urging the Ottawa government to use sweeping cultural protectionist powers to block a proposal by the world's biggest online bookshop to create its first physical presence north of the 49th parallel. The issue has sparked a vigorous debate over cultural \"insecurity\" in Canadian media and legal circles. And it poses a test for prime minister Stephen Harper's avowed desire for free trade.For the last eight years, Canadians have been able to buy books on a Canadian-focused Amazon website, Amazon.ca. But the Seattle-based internet empire has been doing business through a loophole \u2013 by not employing anybody in Canada and using a contractor to ship orders across the border, it has avoided oversight under the 1985 Investment Canada Act, which allows ministerial scrutiny of foreign companies' presence in the country.This month, Amazon declared that it wanted to implant a footprint by creating a distribution centre in Canada. The department of Canadian heritage stepped in, exercising its discretionary power for a formal review, \"to determine if the investment by Amazon.com will be of net benefit to Canada\".Nurturing talent Inevitably, Canadian booksellers are vehemently opposed to Amazon, wary of a multinational competitor with deep pockets. Stephen Cribar, president of the Canadian Booksellers Association, said independent bookshops did a great deal to nurture authors by holding literary readings and by giving prominence to local writers.\"The things independent booksellers are good at \u2013 supporting our communities, supporting local cultures \u2013 could be jeopardised,\" said Cribar.Under strict rules safeguarding Canadian content in radio, television and on bookshelves, there are no leading foreign book chains on Canadian high streets. Only one locally owned retailer, Indigo, has anything approaching a national spread. Cribar said that if the government caved in to Amazon, the landscape would change: \"If they're allowed to do this, it could open the doors to others. We could see Barnes & Noble and Borders in Canada.\"Canadian literature has more than its fair share of talent. The Ontario writer Alice Munro, 77, won last year's Man Booker International prize for her short stories of small-town life. And Yann Martel won the 2002 Booker for his parable about a boy and a tiger on a lifeboat, Life of Pi. The Oscar-winning movie The English Patient was based on a book by Canada's Michael Ondaatje. Even the leader of the opposition, Michael Ignatieff, is an acclaimed writer.Amazon argues that by selling Canadian books in 170 countries it is doing more than anyone to promote local work. The company's vice-president of global policy, Paul Misener, told Toronto's Globe and Mail: \"I don't think anybody is doing anything near this to help disseminate Canadian cultural products generally.\" He added: \"To claim that somehow a US-based company can't help Canadian culture is just proved wrong by the facts.\"It may seem a familiar spat of small retailers against a global behemoth. But Canada's desire to assert a distinct identity can be more acute than elsewhere. Nearly nine out of 10 Canadians live within 100 miles of the US border, putting them a short drive away from the world's dominant superpower. There are 100 million crossings annually of the longest non-militarised frontier in the world. In a newspaper column, one Canadian novelist, Roy MacSkimming, lamented that the encroachment of Amazon amounted to \"Wal-Martization, the law of lowest-cost, lowest-common denominator.\"Andrew Cohen, president of a think-tank dedicated to Canadian identity, the Historica-Dominion Institute, says the issue goes to the heart of a long-standing disquiet in Canada over US influence that dates back long before a free trade pact signed between the two countries by the former prime minister Brian Mulroney in 1988.\"Canada is insecure and it has been for years. It's easily explicable when you're 33 million people sitting next to the world's greatest cultural machine,\" said Cohen, who says his compatriots tend explicitly to stress anything that sets them apart form the US. \"We look for the narcissism of small difference. We've made a whole industry of pointing out ways in which we're different from the US.\"Borders blocked Canada's government has intervened before to block cross-border cultural deals. In 1996, an effort by Heather Reisman, founder of the book chain Indigo, to strike a deal with the US firm Borders was blocked. And strict rules limit foreign ownership of Canadian newspapers and television stations, complicating efforts to restructure the country's biggest news publisher, Canwest, which is in bankruptcy.But the country's conservative administration has a free-trade instinct. In this month's throne speech, which outlines the government's legislative programme, the Harper administration announced it wanted to allow foreign ownership of telecoms and satellite companies. And Ottawa kicked up a huge stink against protectionism last year when the Obama administration inserted \"Buy America\" provisions decreeing that public works funded by its $787bn (\u00a3528bn) economic stimulus package should favour US contractors over foreigners.The fact that Amazon has been doing business in Canada for eight years without a physical presence raises questions of whether protectionism between neighbouring nations is even practical in the digital era. Jeffrey Brown, a competition expert at the Ottawa law firm Stikeman Elliott, said: \"The government's policy in the past has been fairly restrictive when it comes to cultural industries. Is this going to be precedential in nature? It could be, although it's a bit of a special case.\"If Amazon gets the green light, Brown suggests, there could be \"undertakings\" attached to ensure the bookseller does its part in promoting Canadian talent. He said: \"I know it looks a bit mysterious to the rest of the world but Canada has a population of about 33 million and probably about three quarters of us are English speaking. Most of us share a common language with the US, which is a cultural superpower in the world, and when you're right on the doorstep, there can be a perception that your culture is under threat\".", "tags": ["International trade", "Amazon.com", "Books", "Booksellers", "Business", "Canada", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Amazon's move into Canada sparks cultural war with booksellers"},{"date": "2010-03-08T20:17:51Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Three people who fell to their deaths from a Glasgow tower block on Sunday are believed to have been Russian nationals who had been trying to claim asylum in the UK from Canada.A source close to the case said the three were a father, aged 43 and named Serykh, believed to be a former member of the Russian security services, a mother, and a son in his early 20s. The source said it was a highly unusual case.The family are said to have been trying to claim asylum in the UK from Canada, which had reportedly given them leave to stay but had denied them citizenship. They are said to have first arrived in the UK in November 2007 and came to Glasgow in autumn last year.The bodies were found at the foot of the 30-storey block in the Springburn area of north-east Glasgow on Sunday morning.Strathclyde police have said they will not release the identities or nationalities of the deceased until next of kin have been traced and informed. The Home Office, meanwhile, has denied that there was any UK Borders Agency activity at the property on Sunday morning after claims by some living in the area that there may have been a raid on the flat prior to the incident.The source said the family had been in Canada from November 2000 to November 2007 before travelling through Germany, the Netherlands and Ireland to the UK, where they initially lived in Brent in north London. The source said the family had made a series of wild claims about the Canadian government.No one at the Canadian high commission was available for comment. Their case to stay in the UK had been rejected but the Home Office was not pursuing them immediately. Their financial support had been withdrawn and they had been asked to vacate their flat. They had also been told to approach the Scottish Refugee Council and other charities for emergency assistance.Neighbours said the three had only moved into the flat in the Red Road complex two months ago. Carol Craig, 51, and Graham Galbraith, 38, who live in the flat next door, said they were woken by police on Sunday morning who told them that their immediate neighbours had fallen to their deaths. When the couple looked over their own balcony on the 15th floor of 63 Petershill Drive, they saw three bodies on the small patch of grass below.\"We last saw them on Saturday,\" said Craig. \"They were out on the landing. I thought it was a family. It's been such a shock. I can't get it out of my head.\"The Red Road towers, at one time the highest in Europe, have been a feature of Glasgow's skyline since the 1960s, but have fallen into disrepair and are due for demolition. In recent years, they have been used to house many refugees and asylum seekers from a variety of countries, including Kosovo, parts of Africa, Iraq and Afghanistan. Paint is peeling from the walls and the small balconies are protected only by plastic mesh. The block at Petershill Drive is currently leased to the YMCA. A spokesman for the organisation said they could not comment on the nationality of those who had died.Today small groups of asylum seekers gathered at the spot where the three died. A single candle had been lit and pieces of paper laid out on the scarred and pitted patch of grass with the words: \"Freedom, please believe us.\"Seyed Ali Ghasemi, 28, from Iran, who lives in an adjoining tower, said he could understand the desperation that might drive someone to take their own life. Those seeking asylum only have each other for support, he says, and everyone is worried about their own situation.He had looked out of his window on Sunday morning and had assumed that the figures he saw at the base of the opposite tower were sleeping rough, as he himself has done in the past.\"It is very, very sad. They are scared. They are just so fed up of everything. Maybe I'm in a bad situation and I do the same thing. I have not seen my son for two years. We are all scared and fed up,\" he said.Ledia Tewelde, 22, from Eritrea, said that last year she had jumped from the window of her second floor flat in another part of Glasgow, after hearing loud noises at the door and fearing she was about to be deported. She said she broke both her ankles and injured her back.\"I was very, very scared. I thought there was somebody coming into the room and I just jumped. I didn't want to go back to my country. I have been four years in this country with nothing. They give me vouchers for my food. You come from a bad situation and you come here and you are scared. It is very stressful.\"Robina Qureshi, director of Positive Action in Housing, a charity that works with refugees and asylum seekers, said it was time for an overhaul of the asylum process. \"This case raises serious questions about the way the UK asylum system operates in this country. Members of the public have a right to know if we have a fair asylum system or one which terrorises vulnerable people to the point they would kill themselves.\"We believe the current asylum system is based on the false premise that all asylum seekers are bogus.\"", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Refugees", "Canada", "World news", "Politics", "Americas", "Glasgow"], "title": "Glasgow fall victims 'were seeking asylum from Canada'"},{"date": "2010-01-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "If there was a gold medal for shafting democracy at the Winter Olympics, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper would win it. Just before the games open in Vancouver, he has halted parliament in its tracks, suspending it for the second time in little more than a year.Canada will not have a House of Commons until March 3. Instantly, we are a part-time democracy, a shabby diminished place packed with angry voiceless citizens whose votes have been rendered meaningless. Harper didn't even visit the governor-general of Canada for the formality of asking permission as he did last Christmas. Instead, he phoned her and got his PR man to send out an announcement to the nation.Rage and shame are flowing on the internet because there is nowhere else for voters to turn. Even The Globe and Mail, Canada's national and excessively staid newspaper, had a front-page editorial steaming with reproach. The Globe often leaves me frustrated, but I was moved when I read it and \u2026 did what exactly? I took a stand. I joined a Facebook group called Canadians Against Proroguing Parliament, an earnestly pathetic act that may be part of the reason our nation is so lessened on the first day of 2010.Look, I can't even call my federal MP, a Liberal member of the opposition, because she's effectively out of commission for the next two months. All that's left to me is to tell you what it's like here and why you should care.Harper, that strange vengeful man you will see in February clapping awkwardly as Olympians leap off mountains and shoot past in the luge, has been on a mission since his youth to turn Canada into a pale, watery version of the United States of America. Even then, the US was well into its identity-switch into the undereducated, paranoid, self-destructively aggressive overspent mess we watch now with grim fascination.Why follow failure? His reasons elude me, but he has only just begun his mission of the extreme right. His method: absolute personal control of everything. Unfortunately, he has a free pass \u2013 there is nobody of any stature in his cabinet, and no opposition to speak of. Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff cannot seem to find his place.The specific intent of proroguing parliament was to smother a scandal, to halt a highly embarrassing and public inquiry into the Canadian military \u2013 eight years into its weird little war in Afghanistan \u2013 handing over prisoners to the Afghan \"government\" while knowing they would be tortured. Another reason was to stack the unelected second house, the senate, with five more Conservatives, reshuffle crucial committees and take the country one step closer to complete hard-right majority government.Harper, frustrated by his repeated failure to achieve more than minority rule, nurses a venom not before seen in Canadian politics. Bush and Blair hired people for this purpose; with Harper it is self-contained. He torments whistleblowers even as they win public acclaim, scorns climate change evidence and makes an international fool of us in Copenhagen, is bent on dismantling the national gun registry set up after the 1989 Montreal massacre, plans the same anti-drug mandatory-sentencing laws that bloated and blocked the US jail system, and fires federal watchdogs who disagree with him.Obama's failures have complicated roots but Canada's failures have been deliberately engineered. The Conservatives are mean people. The Conservative Party was not always like this and Canadians are unaccustomed to this level of cruelty and proud ignorance in public life.I am fed up. Powered only by the stoicism on which this winter-bound nation was built \u2013 we aren't even frozen any more, thanks to climate change, we are merely damp \u2013 I went out last night to see in the New Year with two friends who are government scientists (shan't name them, Harper hates civil servants even more than he hates science). One of them, an American, campaigned for Obama in 2008, the same year she took Canadian citizenship.We drank a Sandbanks Estates wine \u2013 tough little Ontario grape \u2013 and toasted a country for which we still have such hopes. I avoided her kind but sceptical eye.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Shafting democracy in Canada | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-01-26T19:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After prime minister Stephen Harper's prorogation of parliament in late December, many Canadians spent much of January expressing their displeasure about the decision. An Ekos poll released mid-month revealed the Conservative party's dip in popularity since Harper's decision to prorogue, and a Facebook group called Canadians Against Proroguing Parliament (Capp) grew exponentially to over 200,000 members. The group encouraged those online to bring their opinions to the street in rallies held nation-wide this past Saturday, and for the most part, they were well attended.As it turned out, in Vancouver (and, it seems, the rest of the country) the rally, while populated by members of the online community, was still dominated by the usual groups. There were the unions, members of the Green party, the Communists \u2013 the same type of people who might be present at the inevitable anti-Olympic rallies next month, and who are regular victims to the derision of anti-protesters. But the key bulk of Canadian voters were still missing, happier to shop on Robson Street than shout slogans.In the Globe and Mail last week, Jeffery Simpson opined: There was a time when the Liberal party stood for three things: a strong central government, an activist state that tried to redistribute income and opportunity, and an internationalist foreign policy.It wasn't just the way the Liberals used to think of themselves. For the most part, a lot of Canadians still feel that way \u2013 that we are an altruistic bunch of globally concerned, socially responsible citizens. It's an image that the Harper Conservatives still promote, and it's one based on humanist principles. The problem with it is that it's not really accurate. This was the inherent problem with the anti-prorogation rallies; they weren't speaking to what Canadians really care about, which is their pockets.When Jean Chretien (a Liberal) won a resounding victory over the Progressive Conservatives in 1993, it was partly due to his promise to rid Canada of the new Goods and Services Tax (GST) that Brian Mulroney had introduced two years prior. For the next 10 years, Chretien repeated his promise again and again, until he finally stepped down amid the sponsorship scandal. When Harper had the chance to run for prime minister, he picked up where Chretien left off, and committed to a 2% decrease of the GST. He won.In the 2008 election, before the global recession had taken hold, Harper won his current minority government by effectively tarring then-Liberal leader Stephane Dion's Green Shift environment plan as a carbon tax, and pounced upon the suggestion that he might raise the GST. The Liberals thought they could appeal to the kind of voter that Jeffery Simpson accidentally describes, but the Tories knew that they could appeal to the kind of voter that actually exists \u2013 the one who would rather have a glorified retail manager at the helm of their government than a leader.In Ottawa on Saturday, current Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff, fresh from a national university speaking tour, addressed the rally on Parliament Hill. His continued failure to inspire Canadians speaks exactly to the true source of our current apathy. In a rousing speech to his party in September, Ignatieff cited the government's failure to \"protect the most vulnerable,\" \"defend healthcare\" and \"create jobs\" as reasons that it should no longer continue. But as it turned out, nobody cared, and the Tories survived by trumpeting the success of their Economic Action Plan.As the Vancouver rally wound its way through the downtown core, it received some response from drivers and on-lookers, mostly by way of a muted car horn or a small cheer. For the most part, though, spectators stared at the signs, trying to make heed of what exactly all the fuss was about. It all looked good: Canadians out on the streets, speaking their minds put forth the image that change is coming. But change only comes in Canada when our wallets are involved.In theory, this weekend's rallies were a success in the same way any political rally is: they received media attention and were well attended. But Canadians are confused. Our national pride \u2013 the same that will be on display during the Winter Games \u2013 is based on socially progressive principles that we no longer really care about; what we really want addressed is our tax dollars. Canada is not unique in this respect, but perhaps it's time we started to accept that.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Change in Canada? Only in our wallets | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2010-03-26T18:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A bookish revolt has erupted in the home of Margaret Atwood, Yann Martel and Michael Ondaatje. A seemingly innocuous plan by Amazon to open a warehouse in Canada has tapped into political anxiety over protection of the country's literary identity from its more powerful neighbour.Booksellers in Canada are urging the Ottawa government to use sweeping cultural protectionist powers to block a proposal by the world's biggest online bookshop to create its first physical presence north of the 49th parallel. The issue has sparked a vigorous debate over cultural \"insecurity\" in Canadian media and legal circles. And it poses a test for prime minister Stephen Harper's avowed desire for free trade.For the last eight years, Canadians have been able to buy books on a Canadian-focused Amazon website, Amazon.ca. But the Seattle-based internet empire has been doing business through a loophole \u2013 by not employing anybody in Canada and using a contractor to ship orders across the border, it has avoided oversight under the 1985 Investment Canada Act, which allows ministerial scrutiny of foreign companies' presence in the country.This month, Amazon declared that it wanted to implant a footprint by creating a distribution centre in Canada. The department of Canadian heritage stepped in, exercising its discretionary power for a formal review, \"to determine if the investment by Amazon.com will be of net benefit to Canada\".Nurturing talent Inevitably, Canadian booksellers are vehemently opposed to Amazon, wary of a multinational competitor with deep pockets. Stephen Cribar, president of the Canadian Booksellers Association, said independent bookshops did a great deal to nurture authors by holding literary readings and by giving prominence to local writers.\"The things independent booksellers are good at \u2013 supporting our communities, supporting local cultures \u2013 could be jeopardised,\" said Cribar.Under strict rules safeguarding Canadian content in radio, television and on bookshelves, there are no leading foreign book chains on Canadian high streets. Only one locally owned retailer, Indigo, has anything approaching a national spread. Cribar said that if the government caved in to Amazon, the landscape would change: \"If they're allowed to do this, it could open the doors to others. We could see Barnes & Noble and Borders in Canada.\"Canadian literature has more than its fair share of talent. The Ontario writer Alice Munro, 77, won last year's Man Booker International prize for her short stories of small-town life. And Yann Martel won the 2002 Booker for his parable about a boy and a tiger on a lifeboat, Life of Pi. The Oscar-winning movie The English Patient was based on a book by Canada's Michael Ondaatje. Even the leader of the opposition, Michael Ignatieff, is an acclaimed writer.Amazon argues that by selling Canadian books in 170 countries it is doing more than anyone to promote local work. The company's vice-president of global policy, Paul Misener, told Toronto's Globe and Mail: \"I don't think anybody is doing anything near this to help disseminate Canadian cultural products generally.\" He added: \"To claim that somehow a US-based company can't help Canadian culture is just proved wrong by the facts.\"It may seem a familiar spat of small retailers against a global behemoth. But Canada's desire to assert a distinct identity can be more acute than elsewhere. Nearly nine out of 10 Canadians live within 100 miles of the US border, putting them a short drive away from the world's dominant superpower. There are 100 million crossings annually of the longest non-militarised frontier in the world. In a newspaper column, one Canadian novelist, Roy MacSkimming, lamented that the encroachment of Amazon amounted to \"Wal-Martization, the law of lowest-cost, lowest-common denominator.\"Andrew Cohen, president of a think-tank dedicated to Canadian identity, the Historica-Dominion Institute, says the issue goes to the heart of a long-standing disquiet in Canada over US influence that dates back long before a free trade pact signed between the two countries by the former prime minister Brian Mulroney in 1988.\"Canada is insecure and it has been for years. It's easily explicable when you're 33 million people sitting next to the world's greatest cultural machine,\" said Cohen, who says his compatriots tend explicitly to stress anything that sets them apart form the US. \"We look for the narcissism of small difference. We've made a whole industry of pointing out ways in which we're different from the US.\"Borders blocked Canada's government has intervened before to block cross-border cultural deals. In 1996, an effort by Heather Reisman, founder of the book chain Indigo, to strike a deal with the US firm Borders was blocked. And strict rules limit foreign ownership of Canadian newspapers and television stations, complicating efforts to restructure the country's biggest news publisher, Canwest, which is in bankruptcy.But the country's conservative administration has a free-trade instinct. In this month's throne speech, which outlines the government's legislative programme, the Harper administration announced it wanted to allow foreign ownership of telecoms and satellite companies. And Ottawa kicked up a huge stink against protectionism last year when the Obama administration inserted \"Buy America\" provisions decreeing that public works funded by its $787bn (\u00a3528bn) economic stimulus package should favour US contractors over foreigners.The fact that Amazon has been doing business in Canada for eight years without a physical presence raises questions of whether protectionism between neighbouring nations is even practical in the digital era. Jeffrey Brown, a competition expert at the Ottawa law firm Stikeman Elliott, said: \"The government's policy in the past has been fairly restrictive when it comes to cultural industries. Is this going to be precedential in nature? It could be, although it's a bit of a special case.\"If Amazon gets the green light, Brown suggests, there could be \"undertakings\" attached to ensure the bookseller does its part in promoting Canadian talent. He said: \"I know it looks a bit mysterious to the rest of the world but Canada has a population of about 33 million and probably about three quarters of us are English speaking. Most of us share a common language with the US, which is a cultural superpower in the world, and when you're right on the doorstep, there can be a perception that your culture is under threat\".", "tags": ["International trade", "Amazon.com", "Books", "Booksellers", "Business", "Canada", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Amazon's move into Canada sparks cultural war with booksellers"},{"date": "2010-03-08T20:17:51Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Three people who fell to their deaths from a Glasgow tower block on Sunday are believed to have been Russian nationals who had been trying to claim asylum in the UK from Canada.A source close to the case said the three were a father, aged 43 and named Serykh, believed to be a former member of the Russian security services, a mother, and a son in his early 20s. The source said it was a highly unusual case.The family are said to have been trying to claim asylum in the UK from Canada, which had reportedly given them leave to stay but had denied them citizenship. They are said to have first arrived in the UK in November 2007 and came to Glasgow in autumn last year.The bodies were found at the foot of the 30-storey block in the Springburn area of north-east Glasgow on Sunday morning.Strathclyde police have said they will not release the identities or nationalities of the deceased until next of kin have been traced and informed. The Home Office, meanwhile, has denied that there was any UK Borders Agency activity at the property on Sunday morning after claims by some living in the area that there may have been a raid on the flat prior to the incident.The source said the family had been in Canada from November 2000 to November 2007 before travelling through Germany, the Netherlands and Ireland to the UK, where they initially lived in Brent in north London. The source said the family had made a series of wild claims about the Canadian government.No one at the Canadian high commission was available for comment. Their case to stay in the UK had been rejected but the Home Office was not pursuing them immediately. Their financial support had been withdrawn and they had been asked to vacate their flat. They had also been told to approach the Scottish Refugee Council and other charities for emergency assistance.Neighbours said the three had only moved into the flat in the Red Road complex two months ago. Carol Craig, 51, and Graham Galbraith, 38, who live in the flat next door, said they were woken by police on Sunday morning who told them that their immediate neighbours had fallen to their deaths. When the couple looked over their own balcony on the 15th floor of 63 Petershill Drive, they saw three bodies on the small patch of grass below.\"We last saw them on Saturday,\" said Craig. \"They were out on the landing. I thought it was a family. It's been such a shock. I can't get it out of my head.\"The Red Road towers, at one time the highest in Europe, have been a feature of Glasgow's skyline since the 1960s, but have fallen into disrepair and are due for demolition. In recent years, they have been used to house many refugees and asylum seekers from a variety of countries, including Kosovo, parts of Africa, Iraq and Afghanistan. Paint is peeling from the walls and the small balconies are protected only by plastic mesh. The block at Petershill Drive is currently leased to the YMCA. A spokesman for the organisation said they could not comment on the nationality of those who had died.Today small groups of asylum seekers gathered at the spot where the three died. A single candle had been lit and pieces of paper laid out on the scarred and pitted patch of grass with the words: \"Freedom, please believe us.\"Seyed Ali Ghasemi, 28, from Iran, who lives in an adjoining tower, said he could understand the desperation that might drive someone to take their own life. Those seeking asylum only have each other for support, he says, and everyone is worried about their own situation.He had looked out of his window on Sunday morning and had assumed that the figures he saw at the base of the opposite tower were sleeping rough, as he himself has done in the past.\"It is very, very sad. They are scared. They are just so fed up of everything. Maybe I'm in a bad situation and I do the same thing. I have not seen my son for two years. We are all scared and fed up,\" he said.Ledia Tewelde, 22, from Eritrea, said that last year she had jumped from the window of her second floor flat in another part of Glasgow, after hearing loud noises at the door and fearing she was about to be deported. She said she broke both her ankles and injured her back.\"I was very, very scared. I thought there was somebody coming into the room and I just jumped. I didn't want to go back to my country. I have been four years in this country with nothing. They give me vouchers for my food. You come from a bad situation and you come here and you are scared. It is very stressful.\"Robina Qureshi, director of Positive Action in Housing, a charity that works with refugees and asylum seekers, said it was time for an overhaul of the asylum process. \"This case raises serious questions about the way the UK asylum system operates in this country. Members of the public have a right to know if we have a fair asylum system or one which terrorises vulnerable people to the point they would kill themselves.\"We believe the current asylum system is based on the false premise that all asylum seekers are bogus.\"", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Refugees", "Canada", "World news", "Politics", "Americas", "Glasgow"], "title": "Glasgow fall victims 'were seeking asylum from Canada'"},{"date": "2010-03-17T11:54:17Z", "country": "canada", "content": "For a man who may be on the verge of revolutionising the urban cycling experience, Michel Dallaire has spent relatively little time on two wheels.Dallaire, who designed the Bixi bicycle sharing system due to launch in London this summer, regards himself as a skiier rather than a cyclist. His longest ride was a \"really painful\" 36 miles, and negotiating London's traffic seems a terrifying prospect.\"The traffic in London with these huge buses, two storeys high and they drive so fast,\" he said. \"The bicycles sometimes are just in front of these big buses and they ride 40km, 50km in the city and of course on the wrong side of the street.\"But Dallaire's Bixis, the frames marked with their disinctive silver swoosh, seem unstoppable, moving on to Boston, London, Melbourne Australia and Minneapolis after its hugely successful debut in Montreal.The sharing scheme registered more than 1m rides in its first four months in Montreal. The Montreal parking authority, which runs Bixi, put 2,000 more bikes on the streets and added more docking stations. The bike system could end up being the most widespread design of Dallaire's 43-year career.\"I saw people I knew who I never imagined would be on a bike in town, and some people cycling for the first time,\" said Suzanne Lareau, the president of Velo Quebec, the cycling advocacy organisation. Many users have their own bicycles but are afraid of getting them stolen if they ride into town, she said.Others say the Bixi gives them a sense of freedom. They can duck out of their offices for a quick lunch, ride into work without fear of being caught in the rain on the way home. In the summer months, it's another transport option along with buses, and metro. \"It's part of a cocktail of transport,\" said Catherine Mayor, spokesman for the Angus Technopole, a green redevelopment project on the site of an old locomotive shop.Membership costs $78 for a year, or $5 a day. The first half-hour rental is free, with prices rising thereafter. Dallaire attributes at least part of the success to the uniform design of the Bixi, which turned the bicycles and docking stations into part of urban landscape. He said the sturdy look of the bike inspired confidence - and prevented vandalism.Dallaire, who worked with a local manufacturer DeVinci as well as Velo Quebec, also hid the cables inside the bike's main frame to prevent them bind tampered with.London's bicycle sharing scheme will not be identical to the original Bixi, which uses solar power and modular design for the bicycle docking stations, which are shut down during the winter months.The docking stations, which hold six bicycles, are mounted on alumnium plates which can be picked up by cranes and plunked down on pavements, allowing the authorities to easily shift bicyles to areas of high demand. London's docking stations will be permanent, and use power from the electrical grid.There were setbacks too. In July last year, La Presse reported that one in five bikes had been vandalised. Roger Plamondon, the head of the parking authority, refuses to release figures for theft or vandalism, saying he does not want to encourage copycats. But he admits the early days were a challenge.\"We had people trying to sell them in a garage, we had people trying to sell them for the aluminium,\" he said. \"But we had people calling us and telling us come and pick up the bike, the bike is not supposed to be there.\"A spokesperson said thefts in the early days were at 3% to 5%. About 50 of the 5,000 bicycles are under repair at any given time.Dallaire was called in to modify the locking system, and the authorities say the changes cut down on thefts. He now thinks he can tame London commuters - if not the city's streets - predicting the same response to the Bixi as in Montreal.\"It has really changed the dynamic of the social community,\" he said. \"It has changed Montreal. It's more friendly, people are more together - and it is so practical.\"Paris, Cardiff, Blackpool, Reading, Copenhagen city bike, Lyon, Hammersmith and Fulham and Nice and Vannes.", "tags": ["Cycling", "Ethical and green living", "Life and style", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Bixi is big in Canada but can it recycle success in London this year? | Bike blog"},{"date": "2010-01-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "If there was a gold medal for shafting democracy at the Winter Olympics, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper would win it. Just before the games open in Vancouver, he has halted parliament in its tracks, suspending it for the second time in little more than a year.Canada will not have a House of Commons until March 3. Instantly, we are a part-time democracy, a shabby diminished place packed with angry voiceless citizens whose votes have been rendered meaningless. Harper didn't even visit the governor-general of Canada for the formality of asking permission as he did last Christmas. Instead, he phoned her and got his PR man to send out an announcement to the nation.Rage and shame are flowing on the internet because there is nowhere else for voters to turn. Even The Globe and Mail, Canada's national and excessively staid newspaper, had a front-page editorial steaming with reproach. The Globe often leaves me frustrated, but I was moved when I read it and \u2026 did what exactly? I took a stand. I joined a Facebook group called Canadians Against Proroguing Parliament, an earnestly pathetic act that may be part of the reason our nation is so lessened on the first day of 2010.Look, I can't even call my federal MP, a Liberal member of the opposition, because she's effectively out of commission for the next two months. All that's left to me is to tell you what it's like here and why you should care.Harper, that strange vengeful man you will see in February clapping awkwardly as Olympians leap off mountains and shoot past in the luge, has been on a mission since his youth to turn Canada into a pale, watery version of the United States of America. Even then, the US was well into its identity-switch into the undereducated, paranoid, self-destructively aggressive overspent mess we watch now with grim fascination.Why follow failure? His reasons elude me, but he has only just begun his mission of the extreme right. His method: absolute personal control of everything. Unfortunately, he has a free pass \u2013 there is nobody of any stature in his cabinet, and no opposition to speak of. Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff cannot seem to find his place.The specific intent of proroguing parliament was to smother a scandal, to halt a highly embarrassing and public inquiry into the Canadian military \u2013 eight years into its weird little war in Afghanistan \u2013 handing over prisoners to the Afghan \"government\" while knowing they would be tortured. Another reason was to stack the unelected second house, the senate, with five more Conservatives, reshuffle crucial committees and take the country one step closer to complete hard-right majority government.Harper, frustrated by his repeated failure to achieve more than minority rule, nurses a venom not before seen in Canadian politics. Bush and Blair hired people for this purpose; with Harper it is self-contained. He torments whistleblowers even as they win public acclaim, scorns climate change evidence and makes an international fool of us in Copenhagen, is bent on dismantling the national gun registry set up after the 1989 Montreal massacre, plans the same anti-drug mandatory-sentencing laws that bloated and blocked the US jail system, and fires federal watchdogs who disagree with him.Obama's failures have complicated roots but Canada's failures have been deliberately engineered. The Conservatives are mean people. The Conservative Party was not always like this and Canadians are unaccustomed to this level of cruelty and proud ignorance in public life.I am fed up. Powered only by the stoicism on which this winter-bound nation was built \u2013 we aren't even frozen any more, thanks to climate change, we are merely damp \u2013 I went out last night to see in the New Year with two friends who are government scientists (shan't name them, Harper hates civil servants even more than he hates science). One of them, an American, campaigned for Obama in 2008, the same year she took Canadian citizenship.We drank a Sandbanks Estates wine \u2013 tough little Ontario grape \u2013 and toasted a country for which we still have such hopes. I avoided her kind but sceptical eye.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Shafting democracy in Canada | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-01-26T19:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After prime minister Stephen Harper's prorogation of parliament in late December, many Canadians spent much of January expressing their displeasure about the decision. An Ekos poll released mid-month revealed the Conservative party's dip in popularity since Harper's decision to prorogue, and a Facebook group called Canadians Against Proroguing Parliament (Capp) grew exponentially to over 200,000 members. The group encouraged those online to bring their opinions to the street in rallies held nation-wide this past Saturday, and for the most part, they were well attended.As it turned out, in Vancouver (and, it seems, the rest of the country) the rally, while populated by members of the online community, was still dominated by the usual groups. There were the unions, members of the Green party, the Communists \u2013 the same type of people who might be present at the inevitable anti-Olympic rallies next month, and who are regular victims to the derision of anti-protesters. But the key bulk of Canadian voters were still missing, happier to shop on Robson Street than shout slogans.In the Globe and Mail last week, Jeffery Simpson opined: There was a time when the Liberal party stood for three things: a strong central government, an activist state that tried to redistribute income and opportunity, and an internationalist foreign policy.It wasn't just the way the Liberals used to think of themselves. For the most part, a lot of Canadians still feel that way \u2013 that we are an altruistic bunch of globally concerned, socially responsible citizens. It's an image that the Harper Conservatives still promote, and it's one based on humanist principles. The problem with it is that it's not really accurate. This was the inherent problem with the anti-prorogation rallies; they weren't speaking to what Canadians really care about, which is their pockets.When Jean Chretien (a Liberal) won a resounding victory over the Progressive Conservatives in 1993, it was partly due to his promise to rid Canada of the new Goods and Services Tax (GST) that Brian Mulroney had introduced two years prior. For the next 10 years, Chretien repeated his promise again and again, until he finally stepped down amid the sponsorship scandal. When Harper had the chance to run for prime minister, he picked up where Chretien left off, and committed to a 2% decrease of the GST. He won.In the 2008 election, before the global recession had taken hold, Harper won his current minority government by effectively tarring then-Liberal leader Stephane Dion's Green Shift environment plan as a carbon tax, and pounced upon the suggestion that he might raise the GST. The Liberals thought they could appeal to the kind of voter that Jeffery Simpson accidentally describes, but the Tories knew that they could appeal to the kind of voter that actually exists \u2013 the one who would rather have a glorified retail manager at the helm of their government than a leader.In Ottawa on Saturday, current Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff, fresh from a national university speaking tour, addressed the rally on Parliament Hill. His continued failure to inspire Canadians speaks exactly to the true source of our current apathy. In a rousing speech to his party in September, Ignatieff cited the government's failure to \"protect the most vulnerable,\" \"defend healthcare\" and \"create jobs\" as reasons that it should no longer continue. But as it turned out, nobody cared, and the Tories survived by trumpeting the success of their Economic Action Plan.As the Vancouver rally wound its way through the downtown core, it received some response from drivers and on-lookers, mostly by way of a muted car horn or a small cheer. For the most part, though, spectators stared at the signs, trying to make heed of what exactly all the fuss was about. It all looked good: Canadians out on the streets, speaking their minds put forth the image that change is coming. But change only comes in Canada when our wallets are involved.In theory, this weekend's rallies were a success in the same way any political rally is: they received media attention and were well attended. But Canadians are confused. Our national pride \u2013 the same that will be on display during the Winter Games \u2013 is based on socially progressive principles that we no longer really care about; what we really want addressed is our tax dollars. Canada is not unique in this respect, but perhaps it's time we started to accept that.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Change in Canada? Only in our wallets | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2010-03-26T18:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A bookish revolt has erupted in the home of Margaret Atwood, Yann Martel and Michael Ondaatje. A seemingly innocuous plan by Amazon to open a warehouse in Canada has tapped into political anxiety over protection of the country's literary identity from its more powerful neighbour.Booksellers in Canada are urging the Ottawa government to use sweeping cultural protectionist powers to block a proposal by the world's biggest online bookshop to create its first physical presence north of the 49th parallel. The issue has sparked a vigorous debate over cultural \"insecurity\" in Canadian media and legal circles. And it poses a test for prime minister Stephen Harper's avowed desire for free trade.For the last eight years, Canadians have been able to buy books on a Canadian-focused Amazon website, Amazon.ca. But the Seattle-based internet empire has been doing business through a loophole \u2013 by not employing anybody in Canada and using a contractor to ship orders across the border, it has avoided oversight under the 1985 Investment Canada Act, which allows ministerial scrutiny of foreign companies' presence in the country.This month, Amazon declared that it wanted to implant a footprint by creating a distribution centre in Canada. The department of Canadian heritage stepped in, exercising its discretionary power for a formal review, \"to determine if the investment by Amazon.com will be of net benefit to Canada\".Nurturing talent Inevitably, Canadian booksellers are vehemently opposed to Amazon, wary of a multinational competitor with deep pockets. Stephen Cribar, president of the Canadian Booksellers Association, said independent bookshops did a great deal to nurture authors by holding literary readings and by giving prominence to local writers.\"The things independent booksellers are good at \u2013 supporting our communities, supporting local cultures \u2013 could be jeopardised,\" said Cribar.Under strict rules safeguarding Canadian content in radio, television and on bookshelves, there are no leading foreign book chains on Canadian high streets. Only one locally owned retailer, Indigo, has anything approaching a national spread. Cribar said that if the government caved in to Amazon, the landscape would change: \"If they're allowed to do this, it could open the doors to others. We could see Barnes & Noble and Borders in Canada.\"Canadian literature has more than its fair share of talent. The Ontario writer Alice Munro, 77, won last year's Man Booker International prize for her short stories of small-town life. And Yann Martel won the 2002 Booker for his parable about a boy and a tiger on a lifeboat, Life of Pi. The Oscar-winning movie The English Patient was based on a book by Canada's Michael Ondaatje. Even the leader of the opposition, Michael Ignatieff, is an acclaimed writer.Amazon argues that by selling Canadian books in 170 countries it is doing more than anyone to promote local work. The company's vice-president of global policy, Paul Misener, told Toronto's Globe and Mail: \"I don't think anybody is doing anything near this to help disseminate Canadian cultural products generally.\" He added: \"To claim that somehow a US-based company can't help Canadian culture is just proved wrong by the facts.\"It may seem a familiar spat of small retailers against a global behemoth. But Canada's desire to assert a distinct identity can be more acute than elsewhere. Nearly nine out of 10 Canadians live within 100 miles of the US border, putting them a short drive away from the world's dominant superpower. There are 100 million crossings annually of the longest non-militarised frontier in the world. In a newspaper column, one Canadian novelist, Roy MacSkimming, lamented that the encroachment of Amazon amounted to \"Wal-Martization, the law of lowest-cost, lowest-common denominator.\"Andrew Cohen, president of a think-tank dedicated to Canadian identity, the Historica-Dominion Institute, says the issue goes to the heart of a long-standing disquiet in Canada over US influence that dates back long before a free trade pact signed between the two countries by the former prime minister Brian Mulroney in 1988.\"Canada is insecure and it has been for years. It's easily explicable when you're 33 million people sitting next to the world's greatest cultural machine,\" said Cohen, who says his compatriots tend explicitly to stress anything that sets them apart form the US. \"We look for the narcissism of small difference. We've made a whole industry of pointing out ways in which we're different from the US.\"Borders blocked Canada's government has intervened before to block cross-border cultural deals. In 1996, an effort by Heather Reisman, founder of the book chain Indigo, to strike a deal with the US firm Borders was blocked. And strict rules limit foreign ownership of Canadian newspapers and television stations, complicating efforts to restructure the country's biggest news publisher, Canwest, which is in bankruptcy.But the country's conservative administration has a free-trade instinct. In this month's throne speech, which outlines the government's legislative programme, the Harper administration announced it wanted to allow foreign ownership of telecoms and satellite companies. And Ottawa kicked up a huge stink against protectionism last year when the Obama administration inserted \"Buy America\" provisions decreeing that public works funded by its $787bn (\u00a3528bn) economic stimulus package should favour US contractors over foreigners.The fact that Amazon has been doing business in Canada for eight years without a physical presence raises questions of whether protectionism between neighbouring nations is even practical in the digital era. Jeffrey Brown, a competition expert at the Ottawa law firm Stikeman Elliott, said: \"The government's policy in the past has been fairly restrictive when it comes to cultural industries. Is this going to be precedential in nature? It could be, although it's a bit of a special case.\"If Amazon gets the green light, Brown suggests, there could be \"undertakings\" attached to ensure the bookseller does its part in promoting Canadian talent. He said: \"I know it looks a bit mysterious to the rest of the world but Canada has a population of about 33 million and probably about three quarters of us are English speaking. Most of us share a common language with the US, which is a cultural superpower in the world, and when you're right on the doorstep, there can be a perception that your culture is under threat\".", "tags": ["International trade", "Amazon.com", "Books", "Booksellers", "Business", "Canada", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Amazon's move into Canada sparks cultural war with booksellers"},{"date": "2010-03-08T20:17:51Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Three people who fell to their deaths from a Glasgow tower block on Sunday are believed to have been Russian nationals who had been trying to claim asylum in the UK from Canada.A source close to the case said the three were a father, aged 43 and named Serykh, believed to be a former member of the Russian security services, a mother, and a son in his early 20s. The source said it was a highly unusual case.The family are said to have been trying to claim asylum in the UK from Canada, which had reportedly given them leave to stay but had denied them citizenship. They are said to have first arrived in the UK in November 2007 and came to Glasgow in autumn last year.The bodies were found at the foot of the 30-storey block in the Springburn area of north-east Glasgow on Sunday morning.Strathclyde police have said they will not release the identities or nationalities of the deceased until next of kin have been traced and informed. The Home Office, meanwhile, has denied that there was any UK Borders Agency activity at the property on Sunday morning after claims by some living in the area that there may have been a raid on the flat prior to the incident.The source said the family had been in Canada from November 2000 to November 2007 before travelling through Germany, the Netherlands and Ireland to the UK, where they initially lived in Brent in north London. The source said the family had made a series of wild claims about the Canadian government.No one at the Canadian high commission was available for comment. Their case to stay in the UK had been rejected but the Home Office was not pursuing them immediately. Their financial support had been withdrawn and they had been asked to vacate their flat. They had also been told to approach the Scottish Refugee Council and other charities for emergency assistance.Neighbours said the three had only moved into the flat in the Red Road complex two months ago. Carol Craig, 51, and Graham Galbraith, 38, who live in the flat next door, said they were woken by police on Sunday morning who told them that their immediate neighbours had fallen to their deaths. When the couple looked over their own balcony on the 15th floor of 63 Petershill Drive, they saw three bodies on the small patch of grass below.\"We last saw them on Saturday,\" said Craig. \"They were out on the landing. I thought it was a family. It's been such a shock. I can't get it out of my head.\"The Red Road towers, at one time the highest in Europe, have been a feature of Glasgow's skyline since the 1960s, but have fallen into disrepair and are due for demolition. In recent years, they have been used to house many refugees and asylum seekers from a variety of countries, including Kosovo, parts of Africa, Iraq and Afghanistan. Paint is peeling from the walls and the small balconies are protected only by plastic mesh. The block at Petershill Drive is currently leased to the YMCA. A spokesman for the organisation said they could not comment on the nationality of those who had died.Today small groups of asylum seekers gathered at the spot where the three died. A single candle had been lit and pieces of paper laid out on the scarred and pitted patch of grass with the words: \"Freedom, please believe us.\"Seyed Ali Ghasemi, 28, from Iran, who lives in an adjoining tower, said he could understand the desperation that might drive someone to take their own life. Those seeking asylum only have each other for support, he says, and everyone is worried about their own situation.He had looked out of his window on Sunday morning and had assumed that the figures he saw at the base of the opposite tower were sleeping rough, as he himself has done in the past.\"It is very, very sad. They are scared. They are just so fed up of everything. Maybe I'm in a bad situation and I do the same thing. I have not seen my son for two years. We are all scared and fed up,\" he said.Ledia Tewelde, 22, from Eritrea, said that last year she had jumped from the window of her second floor flat in another part of Glasgow, after hearing loud noises at the door and fearing she was about to be deported. She said she broke both her ankles and injured her back.\"I was very, very scared. I thought there was somebody coming into the room and I just jumped. I didn't want to go back to my country. I have been four years in this country with nothing. They give me vouchers for my food. You come from a bad situation and you come here and you are scared. It is very stressful.\"Robina Qureshi, director of Positive Action in Housing, a charity that works with refugees and asylum seekers, said it was time for an overhaul of the asylum process. \"This case raises serious questions about the way the UK asylum system operates in this country. Members of the public have a right to know if we have a fair asylum system or one which terrorises vulnerable people to the point they would kill themselves.\"We believe the current asylum system is based on the false premise that all asylum seekers are bogus.\"", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Refugees", "Canada", "World news", "Politics", "Americas", "Glasgow"], "title": "Glasgow fall victims 'were seeking asylum from Canada'"},{"date": "2010-03-17T11:54:17Z", "country": "canada", "content": "For a man who may be on the verge of revolutionising the urban cycling experience, Michel Dallaire has spent relatively little time on two wheels.Dallaire, who designed the Bixi bicycle sharing system due to launch in London this summer, regards himself as a skiier rather than a cyclist. His longest ride was a \"really painful\" 36 miles, and negotiating London's traffic seems a terrifying prospect.\"The traffic in London with these huge buses, two storeys high and they drive so fast,\" he said. \"The bicycles sometimes are just in front of these big buses and they ride 40km, 50km in the city and of course on the wrong side of the street.\"But Dallaire's Bixis, the frames marked with their disinctive silver swoosh, seem unstoppable, moving on to Boston, London, Melbourne Australia and Minneapolis after its hugely successful debut in Montreal.The sharing scheme registered more than 1m rides in its first four months in Montreal. The Montreal parking authority, which runs Bixi, put 2,000 more bikes on the streets and added more docking stations. The bike system could end up being the most widespread design of Dallaire's 43-year career.\"I saw people I knew who I never imagined would be on a bike in town, and some people cycling for the first time,\" said Suzanne Lareau, the president of Velo Quebec, the cycling advocacy organisation. Many users have their own bicycles but are afraid of getting them stolen if they ride into town, she said.Others say the Bixi gives them a sense of freedom. They can duck out of their offices for a quick lunch, ride into work without fear of being caught in the rain on the way home. In the summer months, it's another transport option along with buses, and metro. \"It's part of a cocktail of transport,\" said Catherine Mayor, spokesman for the Angus Technopole, a green redevelopment project on the site of an old locomotive shop.Membership costs $78 for a year, or $5 a day. The first half-hour rental is free, with prices rising thereafter. Dallaire attributes at least part of the success to the uniform design of the Bixi, which turned the bicycles and docking stations into part of urban landscape. He said the sturdy look of the bike inspired confidence - and prevented vandalism.Dallaire, who worked with a local manufacturer DeVinci as well as Velo Quebec, also hid the cables inside the bike's main frame to prevent them bind tampered with.London's bicycle sharing scheme will not be identical to the original Bixi, which uses solar power and modular design for the bicycle docking stations, which are shut down during the winter months.The docking stations, which hold six bicycles, are mounted on alumnium plates which can be picked up by cranes and plunked down on pavements, allowing the authorities to easily shift bicyles to areas of high demand. London's docking stations will be permanent, and use power from the electrical grid.There were setbacks too. In July last year, La Presse reported that one in five bikes had been vandalised. Roger Plamondon, the head of the parking authority, refuses to release figures for theft or vandalism, saying he does not want to encourage copycats. But he admits the early days were a challenge.\"We had people trying to sell them in a garage, we had people trying to sell them for the aluminium,\" he said. \"But we had people calling us and telling us come and pick up the bike, the bike is not supposed to be there.\"A spokesperson said thefts in the early days were at 3% to 5%. About 50 of the 5,000 bicycles are under repair at any given time.Dallaire was called in to modify the locking system, and the authorities say the changes cut down on thefts. He now thinks he can tame London commuters - if not the city's streets - predicting the same response to the Bixi as in Montreal.\"It has really changed the dynamic of the social community,\" he said. \"It has changed Montreal. It's more friendly, people are more together - and it is so practical.\"Paris, Cardiff, Blackpool, Reading, Copenhagen city bike, Lyon, Hammersmith and Fulham and Nice and Vannes.", "tags": ["Cycling", "Ethical and green living", "Life and style", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Bixi is big in Canada but can it recycle success in London this year? | Bike blog"},{"date": "2010-02-14T16:58:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, faced with growing political pressure over the extraction of oil from its highly polluting tar sands, has begun courting China and other Asian countries to exploit the resource.The move comes as American firms are turning away from tar sands because of its heavy carbon footprint and damage to the landscape.Whole Foods, the high-end organic grocery chain, and retailer Bed Bath & Beyond last week both signed up to a campaign by ForestEthics to stop US firms using oil from Canadian tar sands. The Pentagon is also scaling down its use of tar sands oil to meet a 2007 law requiring the US government to source fuels with lower greenhouse gas emissions.Major oil companies such as Shell are also coming under shareholder pressure to pull out of the Canadian projects. Earlier this year, Shell announced it was scaling back its expansion plans for the tar sands after a revolt by shareholders. Producing oil from the Alberta tar sands causes up to five times more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional crude oil, according to the campaign group Greenpeace.In the most significant deal to date, the Canadian government recently approved a C$1.9bn (\u00a31.5bn) investment giving the Chinese state-owned oil company Petro\u00adChina a majority share in two projects. Prime minister Stephen Harper said: \"Expect more Chinese investment in the resource and energy sectors \u2026 there will definitely be more.\" China's growing investment in the tar sands is seen in Canada as a useful counter to waning demand for tar sands oil from the US, its biggest customer. The moves, which have largely gone unnoticed outside north America, could add further tension to efforts to try to reach a global action plan on climate change.The state department envoy, Todd Stern, on Tuesday accused China of being \"a bit ambiguous\" in its commitments to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Efforts to impose national carbon limits in the US have stalled in Congress, but a number of leading US firms are moving to reduce their carbon footprint by moving away from abandoning tar sands oil.Canada is the biggest source of US oil imports, with 65% of tar sands production going to refineries in the midwest. \"Companies have been hitting the pause button on projects,\" said Simon Dyer, of the Pembina Institute oil sands watch project.But not China. PetroChina has taken a 60% stake in two new tar sands projects due to get under way in the MacKay River and Dover areas next year, with plans to produce up to 35,000 barrels a day by 2014, and eventually up to 500,000 a day.China made its first investment in the tar sands in 2005, with state-owned China National Offshore Oil Corporation spending C$150m for a 17% stake in a startup MEG Energy Corp. Another Chinese state-owned firm, Sinopec, last year increased its interest in the Northern Lights oil project to 50%. China's National Petroleum Corp has also bought oil sands leases that it has not yet developed.The projects, which will begin coming on line over the next decade, are seen as crucial to a long term strategy of finding new sources of energy as China's economy continues to expand. \"Right now I would characterise it as a token toehold,\" said Peter Tertzakian, chief energy economist at ARC Financial Corporation, an energy-focused private equity firm in Calgary, Alberta.But he said the move by China could also represent the beginnings of a major shift in control of the tar sands. \"Hitherto we were very accustomed to have western countries coming here, particularly American companies or companies from the UK, taking an interest in oil and gas companies and we were OK with that,\" he said. \"From a continental energy security perspective of course, there is a little more hesitation when emerging powers come here, but the Canadian government has over the last year indicated more willingness to do business with China.\"Japanese and South Korean companies have also begun moving in, opening up potential new markets for Canada at a time when forecasts show a fall in global demand for oil. India's Reliance Industries is also reportedly bidding on a project. The move by China has also crystalised increased concerns among conservationists and First Nation groups about a proposed 1,200 kilometre pipeline that would carry tar sands oil from northern Alberta, across British Columbia to oil tankers off the Pacific coast.", "tags": ["Oil", "Oil", "Energy industry", "Oil and gas companies", "Business", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Fossil fuels", "Pollution", "Environment", "World news", "China", "Japan", "North Korea", "Canada", "Energy", "Tar sands", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Canada looks to China to exploit oil sands rejected by US"},{"date": "2010-01-01T17:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "If there was a gold medal for shafting democracy at the Winter Olympics, Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper would win it. Just before the games open in Vancouver, he has halted parliament in its tracks, suspending it for the second time in little more than a year.Canada will not have a House of Commons until March 3. Instantly, we are a part-time democracy, a shabby diminished place packed with angry voiceless citizens whose votes have been rendered meaningless. Harper didn't even visit the governor-general of Canada for the formality of asking permission as he did last Christmas. Instead, he phoned her and got his PR man to send out an announcement to the nation.Rage and shame are flowing on the internet because there is nowhere else for voters to turn. Even The Globe and Mail, Canada's national and excessively staid newspaper, had a front-page editorial steaming with reproach. The Globe often leaves me frustrated, but I was moved when I read it and \u2026 did what exactly? I took a stand. I joined a Facebook group called Canadians Against Proroguing Parliament, an earnestly pathetic act that may be part of the reason our nation is so lessened on the first day of 2010.Look, I can't even call my federal MP, a Liberal member of the opposition, because she's effectively out of commission for the next two months. All that's left to me is to tell you what it's like here and why you should care.Harper, that strange vengeful man you will see in February clapping awkwardly as Olympians leap off mountains and shoot past in the luge, has been on a mission since his youth to turn Canada into a pale, watery version of the United States of America. Even then, the US was well into its identity-switch into the undereducated, paranoid, self-destructively aggressive overspent mess we watch now with grim fascination.Why follow failure? His reasons elude me, but he has only just begun his mission of the extreme right. His method: absolute personal control of everything. Unfortunately, he has a free pass \u2013 there is nobody of any stature in his cabinet, and no opposition to speak of. Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff cannot seem to find his place.The specific intent of proroguing parliament was to smother a scandal, to halt a highly embarrassing and public inquiry into the Canadian military \u2013 eight years into its weird little war in Afghanistan \u2013 handing over prisoners to the Afghan \"government\" while knowing they would be tortured. Another reason was to stack the unelected second house, the senate, with five more Conservatives, reshuffle crucial committees and take the country one step closer to complete hard-right majority government.Harper, frustrated by his repeated failure to achieve more than minority rule, nurses a venom not before seen in Canadian politics. Bush and Blair hired people for this purpose; with Harper it is self-contained. He torments whistleblowers even as they win public acclaim, scorns climate change evidence and makes an international fool of us in Copenhagen, is bent on dismantling the national gun registry set up after the 1989 Montreal massacre, plans the same anti-drug mandatory-sentencing laws that bloated and blocked the US jail system, and fires federal watchdogs who disagree with him.Obama's failures have complicated roots but Canada's failures have been deliberately engineered. The Conservatives are mean people. The Conservative Party was not always like this and Canadians are unaccustomed to this level of cruelty and proud ignorance in public life.I am fed up. Powered only by the stoicism on which this winter-bound nation was built \u2013 we aren't even frozen any more, thanks to climate change, we are merely damp \u2013 I went out last night to see in the New Year with two friends who are government scientists (shan't name them, Harper hates civil servants even more than he hates science). One of them, an American, campaigned for Obama in 2008, the same year she took Canadian citizenship.We drank a Sandbanks Estates wine \u2013 tough little Ontario grape \u2013 and toasted a country for which we still have such hopes. I avoided her kind but sceptical eye.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Shafting democracy in Canada | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-01-26T19:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After prime minister Stephen Harper's prorogation of parliament in late December, many Canadians spent much of January expressing their displeasure about the decision. An Ekos poll released mid-month revealed the Conservative party's dip in popularity since Harper's decision to prorogue, and a Facebook group called Canadians Against Proroguing Parliament (Capp) grew exponentially to over 200,000 members. The group encouraged those online to bring their opinions to the street in rallies held nation-wide this past Saturday, and for the most part, they were well attended.As it turned out, in Vancouver (and, it seems, the rest of the country) the rally, while populated by members of the online community, was still dominated by the usual groups. There were the unions, members of the Green party, the Communists \u2013 the same type of people who might be present at the inevitable anti-Olympic rallies next month, and who are regular victims to the derision of anti-protesters. But the key bulk of Canadian voters were still missing, happier to shop on Robson Street than shout slogans.In the Globe and Mail last week, Jeffery Simpson opined: There was a time when the Liberal party stood for three things: a strong central government, an activist state that tried to redistribute income and opportunity, and an internationalist foreign policy.It wasn't just the way the Liberals used to think of themselves. For the most part, a lot of Canadians still feel that way \u2013 that we are an altruistic bunch of globally concerned, socially responsible citizens. It's an image that the Harper Conservatives still promote, and it's one based on humanist principles. The problem with it is that it's not really accurate. This was the inherent problem with the anti-prorogation rallies; they weren't speaking to what Canadians really care about, which is their pockets.When Jean Chretien (a Liberal) won a resounding victory over the Progressive Conservatives in 1993, it was partly due to his promise to rid Canada of the new Goods and Services Tax (GST) that Brian Mulroney had introduced two years prior. For the next 10 years, Chretien repeated his promise again and again, until he finally stepped down amid the sponsorship scandal. When Harper had the chance to run for prime minister, he picked up where Chretien left off, and committed to a 2% decrease of the GST. He won.In the 2008 election, before the global recession had taken hold, Harper won his current minority government by effectively tarring then-Liberal leader Stephane Dion's Green Shift environment plan as a carbon tax, and pounced upon the suggestion that he might raise the GST. The Liberals thought they could appeal to the kind of voter that Jeffery Simpson accidentally describes, but the Tories knew that they could appeal to the kind of voter that actually exists \u2013 the one who would rather have a glorified retail manager at the helm of their government than a leader.In Ottawa on Saturday, current Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff, fresh from a national university speaking tour, addressed the rally on Parliament Hill. His continued failure to inspire Canadians speaks exactly to the true source of our current apathy. In a rousing speech to his party in September, Ignatieff cited the government's failure to \"protect the most vulnerable,\" \"defend healthcare\" and \"create jobs\" as reasons that it should no longer continue. But as it turned out, nobody cared, and the Tories survived by trumpeting the success of their Economic Action Plan.As the Vancouver rally wound its way through the downtown core, it received some response from drivers and on-lookers, mostly by way of a muted car horn or a small cheer. For the most part, though, spectators stared at the signs, trying to make heed of what exactly all the fuss was about. It all looked good: Canadians out on the streets, speaking their minds put forth the image that change is coming. But change only comes in Canada when our wallets are involved.In theory, this weekend's rallies were a success in the same way any political rally is: they received media attention and were well attended. But Canadians are confused. Our national pride \u2013 the same that will be on display during the Winter Games \u2013 is based on socially progressive principles that we no longer really care about; what we really want addressed is our tax dollars. Canada is not unique in this respect, but perhaps it's time we started to accept that.", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Change in Canada? Only in our wallets | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2010-03-26T18:05:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A bookish revolt has erupted in the home of Margaret Atwood, Yann Martel and Michael Ondaatje. A seemingly innocuous plan by Amazon to open a warehouse in Canada has tapped into political anxiety over protection of the country's literary identity from its more powerful neighbour.Booksellers in Canada are urging the Ottawa government to use sweeping cultural protectionist powers to block a proposal by the world's biggest online bookshop to create its first physical presence north of the 49th parallel. The issue has sparked a vigorous debate over cultural \"insecurity\" in Canadian media and legal circles. And it poses a test for prime minister Stephen Harper's avowed desire for free trade.For the last eight years, Canadians have been able to buy books on a Canadian-focused Amazon website, Amazon.ca. But the Seattle-based internet empire has been doing business through a loophole \u2013 by not employing anybody in Canada and using a contractor to ship orders across the border, it has avoided oversight under the 1985 Investment Canada Act, which allows ministerial scrutiny of foreign companies' presence in the country.This month, Amazon declared that it wanted to implant a footprint by creating a distribution centre in Canada. The department of Canadian heritage stepped in, exercising its discretionary power for a formal review, \"to determine if the investment by Amazon.com will be of net benefit to Canada\".Nurturing talent Inevitably, Canadian booksellers are vehemently opposed to Amazon, wary of a multinational competitor with deep pockets. Stephen Cribar, president of the Canadian Booksellers Association, said independent bookshops did a great deal to nurture authors by holding literary readings and by giving prominence to local writers.\"The things independent booksellers are good at \u2013 supporting our communities, supporting local cultures \u2013 could be jeopardised,\" said Cribar.Under strict rules safeguarding Canadian content in radio, television and on bookshelves, there are no leading foreign book chains on Canadian high streets. Only one locally owned retailer, Indigo, has anything approaching a national spread. Cribar said that if the government caved in to Amazon, the landscape would change: \"If they're allowed to do this, it could open the doors to others. We could see Barnes & Noble and Borders in Canada.\"Canadian literature has more than its fair share of talent. The Ontario writer Alice Munro, 77, won last year's Man Booker International prize for her short stories of small-town life. And Yann Martel won the 2002 Booker for his parable about a boy and a tiger on a lifeboat, Life of Pi. The Oscar-winning movie The English Patient was based on a book by Canada's Michael Ondaatje. Even the leader of the opposition, Michael Ignatieff, is an acclaimed writer.Amazon argues that by selling Canadian books in 170 countries it is doing more than anyone to promote local work. The company's vice-president of global policy, Paul Misener, told Toronto's Globe and Mail: \"I don't think anybody is doing anything near this to help disseminate Canadian cultural products generally.\" He added: \"To claim that somehow a US-based company can't help Canadian culture is just proved wrong by the facts.\"It may seem a familiar spat of small retailers against a global behemoth. But Canada's desire to assert a distinct identity can be more acute than elsewhere. Nearly nine out of 10 Canadians live within 100 miles of the US border, putting them a short drive away from the world's dominant superpower. There are 100 million crossings annually of the longest non-militarised frontier in the world. In a newspaper column, one Canadian novelist, Roy MacSkimming, lamented that the encroachment of Amazon amounted to \"Wal-Martization, the law of lowest-cost, lowest-common denominator.\"Andrew Cohen, president of a think-tank dedicated to Canadian identity, the Historica-Dominion Institute, says the issue goes to the heart of a long-standing disquiet in Canada over US influence that dates back long before a free trade pact signed between the two countries by the former prime minister Brian Mulroney in 1988.\"Canada is insecure and it has been for years. It's easily explicable when you're 33 million people sitting next to the world's greatest cultural machine,\" said Cohen, who says his compatriots tend explicitly to stress anything that sets them apart form the US. \"We look for the narcissism of small difference. We've made a whole industry of pointing out ways in which we're different from the US.\"Borders blocked Canada's government has intervened before to block cross-border cultural deals. In 1996, an effort by Heather Reisman, founder of the book chain Indigo, to strike a deal with the US firm Borders was blocked. And strict rules limit foreign ownership of Canadian newspapers and television stations, complicating efforts to restructure the country's biggest news publisher, Canwest, which is in bankruptcy.But the country's conservative administration has a free-trade instinct. In this month's throne speech, which outlines the government's legislative programme, the Harper administration announced it wanted to allow foreign ownership of telecoms and satellite companies. And Ottawa kicked up a huge stink against protectionism last year when the Obama administration inserted \"Buy America\" provisions decreeing that public works funded by its $787bn (\u00a3528bn) economic stimulus package should favour US contractors over foreigners.The fact that Amazon has been doing business in Canada for eight years without a physical presence raises questions of whether protectionism between neighbouring nations is even practical in the digital era. Jeffrey Brown, a competition expert at the Ottawa law firm Stikeman Elliott, said: \"The government's policy in the past has been fairly restrictive when it comes to cultural industries. Is this going to be precedential in nature? It could be, although it's a bit of a special case.\"If Amazon gets the green light, Brown suggests, there could be \"undertakings\" attached to ensure the bookseller does its part in promoting Canadian talent. He said: \"I know it looks a bit mysterious to the rest of the world but Canada has a population of about 33 million and probably about three quarters of us are English speaking. Most of us share a common language with the US, which is a cultural superpower in the world, and when you're right on the doorstep, there can be a perception that your culture is under threat\".", "tags": ["International trade", "Amazon.com", "Books", "Booksellers", "Business", "Canada", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Amazon's move into Canada sparks cultural war with booksellers"},{"date": "2010-03-08T20:17:51Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Three people who fell to their deaths from a Glasgow tower block on Sunday are believed to have been Russian nationals who had been trying to claim asylum in the UK from Canada.A source close to the case said the three were a father, aged 43 and named Serykh, believed to be a former member of the Russian security services, a mother, and a son in his early 20s. The source said it was a highly unusual case.The family are said to have been trying to claim asylum in the UK from Canada, which had reportedly given them leave to stay but had denied them citizenship. They are said to have first arrived in the UK in November 2007 and came to Glasgow in autumn last year.The bodies were found at the foot of the 30-storey block in the Springburn area of north-east Glasgow on Sunday morning.Strathclyde police have said they will not release the identities or nationalities of the deceased until next of kin have been traced and informed. The Home Office, meanwhile, has denied that there was any UK Borders Agency activity at the property on Sunday morning after claims by some living in the area that there may have been a raid on the flat prior to the incident.The source said the family had been in Canada from November 2000 to November 2007 before travelling through Germany, the Netherlands and Ireland to the UK, where they initially lived in Brent in north London. The source said the family had made a series of wild claims about the Canadian government.No one at the Canadian high commission was available for comment. Their case to stay in the UK had been rejected but the Home Office was not pursuing them immediately. Their financial support had been withdrawn and they had been asked to vacate their flat. They had also been told to approach the Scottish Refugee Council and other charities for emergency assistance.Neighbours said the three had only moved into the flat in the Red Road complex two months ago. Carol Craig, 51, and Graham Galbraith, 38, who live in the flat next door, said they were woken by police on Sunday morning who told them that their immediate neighbours had fallen to their deaths. When the couple looked over their own balcony on the 15th floor of 63 Petershill Drive, they saw three bodies on the small patch of grass below.\"We last saw them on Saturday,\" said Craig. \"They were out on the landing. I thought it was a family. It's been such a shock. I can't get it out of my head.\"The Red Road towers, at one time the highest in Europe, have been a feature of Glasgow's skyline since the 1960s, but have fallen into disrepair and are due for demolition. In recent years, they have been used to house many refugees and asylum seekers from a variety of countries, including Kosovo, parts of Africa, Iraq and Afghanistan. Paint is peeling from the walls and the small balconies are protected only by plastic mesh. The block at Petershill Drive is currently leased to the YMCA. A spokesman for the organisation said they could not comment on the nationality of those who had died.Today small groups of asylum seekers gathered at the spot where the three died. A single candle had been lit and pieces of paper laid out on the scarred and pitted patch of grass with the words: \"Freedom, please believe us.\"Seyed Ali Ghasemi, 28, from Iran, who lives in an adjoining tower, said he could understand the desperation that might drive someone to take their own life. Those seeking asylum only have each other for support, he says, and everyone is worried about their own situation.He had looked out of his window on Sunday morning and had assumed that the figures he saw at the base of the opposite tower were sleeping rough, as he himself has done in the past.\"It is very, very sad. They are scared. They are just so fed up of everything. Maybe I'm in a bad situation and I do the same thing. I have not seen my son for two years. We are all scared and fed up,\" he said.Ledia Tewelde, 22, from Eritrea, said that last year she had jumped from the window of her second floor flat in another part of Glasgow, after hearing loud noises at the door and fearing she was about to be deported. She said she broke both her ankles and injured her back.\"I was very, very scared. I thought there was somebody coming into the room and I just jumped. I didn't want to go back to my country. I have been four years in this country with nothing. They give me vouchers for my food. You come from a bad situation and you come here and you are scared. It is very stressful.\"Robina Qureshi, director of Positive Action in Housing, a charity that works with refugees and asylum seekers, said it was time for an overhaul of the asylum process. \"This case raises serious questions about the way the UK asylum system operates in this country. Members of the public have a right to know if we have a fair asylum system or one which terrorises vulnerable people to the point they would kill themselves.\"We believe the current asylum system is based on the false premise that all asylum seekers are bogus.\"", "tags": ["Scotland", "UK news", "Refugees", "Canada", "World news", "Politics", "Americas", "Glasgow"], "title": "Glasgow fall victims 'were seeking asylum from Canada'"},{"date": "2010-03-17T11:54:17Z", "country": "canada", "content": "For a man who may be on the verge of revolutionising the urban cycling experience, Michel Dallaire has spent relatively little time on two wheels.Dallaire, who designed the Bixi bicycle sharing system due to launch in London this summer, regards himself as a skiier rather than a cyclist. His longest ride was a \"really painful\" 36 miles, and negotiating London's traffic seems a terrifying prospect.\"The traffic in London with these huge buses, two storeys high and they drive so fast,\" he said. \"The bicycles sometimes are just in front of these big buses and they ride 40km, 50km in the city and of course on the wrong side of the street.\"But Dallaire's Bixis, the frames marked with their disinctive silver swoosh, seem unstoppable, moving on to Boston, London, Melbourne Australia and Minneapolis after its hugely successful debut in Montreal.The sharing scheme registered more than 1m rides in its first four months in Montreal. The Montreal parking authority, which runs Bixi, put 2,000 more bikes on the streets and added more docking stations. The bike system could end up being the most widespread design of Dallaire's 43-year career.\"I saw people I knew who I never imagined would be on a bike in town, and some people cycling for the first time,\" said Suzanne Lareau, the president of Velo Quebec, the cycling advocacy organisation. Many users have their own bicycles but are afraid of getting them stolen if they ride into town, she said.Others say the Bixi gives them a sense of freedom. They can duck out of their offices for a quick lunch, ride into work without fear of being caught in the rain on the way home. In the summer months, it's another transport option along with buses, and metro. \"It's part of a cocktail of transport,\" said Catherine Mayor, spokesman for the Angus Technopole, a green redevelopment project on the site of an old locomotive shop.Membership costs $78 for a year, or $5 a day. The first half-hour rental is free, with prices rising thereafter. Dallaire attributes at least part of the success to the uniform design of the Bixi, which turned the bicycles and docking stations into part of urban landscape. He said the sturdy look of the bike inspired confidence - and prevented vandalism.Dallaire, who worked with a local manufacturer DeVinci as well as Velo Quebec, also hid the cables inside the bike's main frame to prevent them bind tampered with.London's bicycle sharing scheme will not be identical to the original Bixi, which uses solar power and modular design for the bicycle docking stations, which are shut down during the winter months.The docking stations, which hold six bicycles, are mounted on alumnium plates which can be picked up by cranes and plunked down on pavements, allowing the authorities to easily shift bicyles to areas of high demand. London's docking stations will be permanent, and use power from the electrical grid.There were setbacks too. In July last year, La Presse reported that one in five bikes had been vandalised. Roger Plamondon, the head of the parking authority, refuses to release figures for theft or vandalism, saying he does not want to encourage copycats. But he admits the early days were a challenge.\"We had people trying to sell them in a garage, we had people trying to sell them for the aluminium,\" he said. \"But we had people calling us and telling us come and pick up the bike, the bike is not supposed to be there.\"A spokesperson said thefts in the early days were at 3% to 5%. About 50 of the 5,000 bicycles are under repair at any given time.Dallaire was called in to modify the locking system, and the authorities say the changes cut down on thefts. He now thinks he can tame London commuters - if not the city's streets - predicting the same response to the Bixi as in Montreal.\"It has really changed the dynamic of the social community,\" he said. \"It has changed Montreal. It's more friendly, people are more together - and it is so practical.\"Paris, Cardiff, Blackpool, Reading, Copenhagen city bike, Lyon, Hammersmith and Fulham and Nice and Vannes.", "tags": ["Cycling", "Ethical and green living", "Life and style", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Bixi is big in Canada but can it recycle success in London this year? | Bike blog"},{"date": "2010-02-14T16:58:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, faced with growing political pressure over the extraction of oil from its highly polluting tar sands, has begun courting China and other Asian countries to exploit the resource.The move comes as American firms are turning away from tar sands because of its heavy carbon footprint and damage to the landscape.Whole Foods, the high-end organic grocery chain, and retailer Bed Bath & Beyond last week both signed up to a campaign by ForestEthics to stop US firms using oil from Canadian tar sands. The Pentagon is also scaling down its use of tar sands oil to meet a 2007 law requiring the US government to source fuels with lower greenhouse gas emissions.Major oil companies such as Shell are also coming under shareholder pressure to pull out of the Canadian projects. Earlier this year, Shell announced it was scaling back its expansion plans for the tar sands after a revolt by shareholders. Producing oil from the Alberta tar sands causes up to five times more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional crude oil, according to the campaign group Greenpeace.In the most significant deal to date, the Canadian government recently approved a C$1.9bn (\u00a31.5bn) investment giving the Chinese state-owned oil company Petro\u00adChina a majority share in two projects. Prime minister Stephen Harper said: \"Expect more Chinese investment in the resource and energy sectors \u2026 there will definitely be more.\" China's growing investment in the tar sands is seen in Canada as a useful counter to waning demand for tar sands oil from the US, its biggest customer. The moves, which have largely gone unnoticed outside north America, could add further tension to efforts to try to reach a global action plan on climate change.The state department envoy, Todd Stern, on Tuesday accused China of being \"a bit ambiguous\" in its commitments to reducing greenhouse gas emissions. Efforts to impose national carbon limits in the US have stalled in Congress, but a number of leading US firms are moving to reduce their carbon footprint by moving away from abandoning tar sands oil.Canada is the biggest source of US oil imports, with 65% of tar sands production going to refineries in the midwest. \"Companies have been hitting the pause button on projects,\" said Simon Dyer, of the Pembina Institute oil sands watch project.But not China. PetroChina has taken a 60% stake in two new tar sands projects due to get under way in the MacKay River and Dover areas next year, with plans to produce up to 35,000 barrels a day by 2014, and eventually up to 500,000 a day.China made its first investment in the tar sands in 2005, with state-owned China National Offshore Oil Corporation spending C$150m for a 17% stake in a startup MEG Energy Corp. Another Chinese state-owned firm, Sinopec, last year increased its interest in the Northern Lights oil project to 50%. China's National Petroleum Corp has also bought oil sands leases that it has not yet developed.The projects, which will begin coming on line over the next decade, are seen as crucial to a long term strategy of finding new sources of energy as China's economy continues to expand. \"Right now I would characterise it as a token toehold,\" said Peter Tertzakian, chief energy economist at ARC Financial Corporation, an energy-focused private equity firm in Calgary, Alberta.But he said the move by China could also represent the beginnings of a major shift in control of the tar sands. \"Hitherto we were very accustomed to have western countries coming here, particularly American companies or companies from the UK, taking an interest in oil and gas companies and we were OK with that,\" he said. \"From a continental energy security perspective of course, there is a little more hesitation when emerging powers come here, but the Canadian government has over the last year indicated more willingness to do business with China.\"Japanese and South Korean companies have also begun moving in, opening up potential new markets for Canada at a time when forecasts show a fall in global demand for oil. India's Reliance Industries is also reportedly bidding on a project. The move by China has also crystalised increased concerns among conservationists and First Nation groups about a proposed 1,200 kilometre pipeline that would carry tar sands oil from northern Alberta, across British Columbia to oil tankers off the Pacific coast.", "tags": ["Oil", "Oil", "Energy industry", "Oil and gas companies", "Business", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Fossil fuels", "Pollution", "Environment", "World news", "China", "Japan", "North Korea", "Canada", "Energy", "Tar sands", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Canada looks to China to exploit oil sands rejected by US"},{"date": "2010-02-08T01:35:28Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hats off to the Bank of England's governor, Mervyn King, who found the time to go for a ride on a dog sled during the weekend's summit of G7 finance ministers, which Canada hosted in the remote Arctic city of Iqaluit. Above is a picture of Merv, who's tucked up nice and warm and looks like he's having a whale of a time. He declared the experience \"wonderful\".Ministers at the summit agreed to forgive Haiti's debts, following the Caribbean country's devastating earthquake. And they pledged to continue working together on co-ordinated economic stimulus packages to fight the impact of the recession.But as I reported earlier in the week, the summit's Arctic location meant that the ministers present, including Britain's Alistair Darling, the US treasury minister Timothy Geithner and France's Christine Lagarde, faced a tricky diplomatic challenge on issue of seal hunting, which would be somewhat peripheral to their portfolios in other circumstances.The European Union has banned commercially hunted seal and, although hunting by indigenous communities was exempt from the prohibition, it's a delicate topic. None of the visiting ministers chose to attend a feast on Saturday night, laid on by the local Inuit community, at which raw seal was on the menu. Canada's Jim Flaherty was left to chow down on some seal meat alone.And when a local reporter asked the European ministers about seal hunting at a closing press conference, there was a deafening silence. Canada's Globe and Mail reports that there was a five second silence as Darling and his colleagues avoided everybody's eye.\"Don't all go at once,\" prompted the reporter.A further five second silence ensued according to this transcript, before Flaherty came to the rescue of his visitors: \"Listen, you know, the European Union makes a specific exception with respect to the Inuit people who for thousands of years have relied on the seal as part of their survival and that is the view of the European Union and its certainly our view in Canada.\"Incidentally, Darling was the only one at the press conference who appeared to be wearing a suit. Everyone else kept warm in woolly jumpers, including a particularly attractive snowflake design sported by Flaherty, and a rather startling orange number worn by Japan's finance minister. There's a video clip here.", "tags": ["Business", "Canada", "Alistair Darling", "Mervyn King", "Bank of England", "Timothy Geithner", "Americas"], "title": "Mervyn King goes dog sledding but all avoid seal meat at G7 summit in Canada"},{"date": "2010-06-17T10:30:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "At a time when many countries are becoming more critical of Israel's policies, Canada seems to be moving in the opposite direction. A general reluctance to engage in open debate about the Palestinian issue is exacerbated by pro-Israel groups' efforts to shut down discussion and the federal government's unprecedented penchant for defending Israeli actions.Since the beginning of 2010, the federal government has systematically cut funding to Arab-Canadian organisations and to UN relief works in Gaza. In March, the Ontario provincial legislature issued a unanimous condemnation of Israeli Apartheid Week, while the federal government considered introducing a similar motion.However, self-censorship reached new heights last month when Toronto's Pride Committee \u2013 which organises one of the world's largest gay pride celebrations \u2013 announced it would be banning use of the term \"Israeli apartheid\" at the festivities.Pride week in Toronto is a loud and highly visible public event, with a long tradition of activists linking their own campaigns for sexual rights to other struggles for liberation and social justice; however, this year the organisers caved in to pressure from pro-Israel groups and Toronto city council.The main effect of the decision is to bar one group in particular \u2013 Queers Against Israeli Apartheid (QuAIA) \u2013 who have marched in the parade since 2008.The reason given is that the phrase \"Israeli apartheid\" violates Toronto's anti-discrimination policy. But when asked, neither Pride Toronto nor Giorgio Mammoliti \u2013 the Toronto city councillor mainly involved \u2013 could explain in detail what was discriminatory about describing Israel's privileging of its Jewish citizens over others as a form or racism and apartheid.\"It's absolutely bizarre the way they are trying to use the language around diversity and inclusiveness to exclude people,\" QuAIA activist Tim McCaskell told me. \"It was so 1984.\"Accompanying the onset of a Canadian McCarthyism dressed up as anti-discrimination, the mainstream left in Canada has been unwilling to take a clear political and moral stance on Palestine. Instead it has sought the approach of least resistance, trying to appease rather than take a stand against the silencing of Palestinian voices in Canada and Israel.Writing in NOW Magazine, a progressive Toronto weekly newspaper, news editor Ellie Kirzner contended that Palestinians and their supporters should simply drop the term \"apartheid\". \"It's a vulnerability the movement doesn't need,\" she wrote.McCaskell, on the other hand, says QuAIA is bringing the fight against Israeli apartheid to pride because that is what Palestinian LGBT organisations have requested, and because Israel tries to present itself as queer-tolerant in an attempt to distract from its ill-treatment of Palestinians.The two Palestinian LGBT groups, Aswat and al-Qaws (both based in Israel), issued a joint statement saying: \"Pride parades started as political marches, and we firmly believe that solidarity should be with human rights first and foremost.\" They continued:We believe that as queers, one of the most disadvantaged and oppressed minorities in human societies, we should protest against all forms of oppression and struggle together to promote the rights of minorities and oppressed groups. As Palestinian queers, our struggle relates to social injustices caused by the discrimination that is deeply rooted in Israel's policies and practices against the Palestinian people, straight and gay alike ...Over the past decades, Pride parades around the world have been a platform for queers, not only to increase public awareness for [LGBT] rights, but also a platform to promote and defend causes like the feminist struggle, and the fight to end apartheid in South Africa.Trying to smother this debate in relation to Israel at Toronto pride could easily backfire, according to Ayala Shani, a queer activist with the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign. She points out that banning a term will only multiply its use and adds: \"We are expecting to see 'Israeli apartheid' written and spoken all over pride parades around the world, including a parade in Tel Aviv.\"However, with the Canadian mainstream left dodging defence of Palestinians and the country at large continuing its polite silence on the Middle East, Toronto's establishment may be taking more pride in silencing discussion of Israeli apartheid than even Tel Aviv.\u2022 Comments on this article will remain open for 24 hours from the time of publication but may be closed overnight", "tags": ["Canada", "LGBT rights", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: Israel's new defender | Jesse Rosenfeld"},{"date": "2010-06-17T10:30:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "At a time when many countries are becoming more critical of Israel's policies, Canada seems to be moving in the opposite direction. A general reluctance to engage in open debate about the Palestinian issue is exacerbated by pro-Israel groups' efforts to shut down discussion and the federal government's unprecedented penchant for defending Israeli actions.Since the beginning of 2010, the federal government has systematically cut funding to Arab-Canadian organisations and to UN relief works in Gaza. In March, the Ontario provincial legislature issued a unanimous condemnation of Israeli Apartheid Week, while the federal government considered introducing a similar motion.However, self-censorship reached new heights last month when Toronto's Pride Committee \u2013 which organises one of the world's largest gay pride celebrations \u2013 announced it would be banning use of the term \"Israeli apartheid\" at the festivities.Pride week in Toronto is a loud and highly visible public event, with a long tradition of activists linking their own campaigns for sexual rights to other struggles for liberation and social justice; however, this year the organisers caved in to pressure from pro-Israel groups and Toronto city council.The main effect of the decision is to bar one group in particular \u2013 Queers Against Israeli Apartheid (QuAIA) \u2013 who have marched in the parade since 2008.The reason given is that the phrase \"Israeli apartheid\" violates Toronto's anti-discrimination policy. But when asked, neither Pride Toronto nor Giorgio Mammoliti \u2013 the Toronto city councillor mainly involved \u2013 could explain in detail what was discriminatory about describing Israel's privileging of its Jewish citizens over others as a form or racism and apartheid.\"It's absolutely bizarre the way they are trying to use the language around diversity and inclusiveness to exclude people,\" QuAIA activist Tim McCaskell told me. \"It was so 1984.\"Accompanying the onset of a Canadian McCarthyism dressed up as anti-discrimination, the mainstream left in Canada has been unwilling to take a clear political and moral stance on Palestine. Instead it has sought the approach of least resistance, trying to appease rather than take a stand against the silencing of Palestinian voices in Canada and Israel.Writing in NOW Magazine, a progressive Toronto weekly newspaper, news editor Ellie Kirzner contended that Palestinians and their supporters should simply drop the term \"apartheid\". \"It's a vulnerability the movement doesn't need,\" she wrote.McCaskell, on the other hand, says QuAIA is bringing the fight against Israeli apartheid to pride because that is what Palestinian LGBT organisations have requested, and because Israel tries to present itself as queer-tolerant in an attempt to distract from its ill-treatment of Palestinians.The two Palestinian LGBT groups, Aswat and al-Qaws (both based in Israel), issued a joint statement saying: \"Pride parades started as political marches, and we firmly believe that solidarity should be with human rights first and foremost.\" They continued:We believe that as queers, one of the most disadvantaged and oppressed minorities in human societies, we should protest against all forms of oppression and struggle together to promote the rights of minorities and oppressed groups. As Palestinian queers, our struggle relates to social injustices caused by the discrimination that is deeply rooted in Israel's policies and practices against the Palestinian people, straight and gay alike ...Over the past decades, Pride parades around the world have been a platform for queers, not only to increase public awareness for [LGBT] rights, but also a platform to promote and defend causes like the feminist struggle, and the fight to end apartheid in South Africa.Trying to smother this debate in relation to Israel at Toronto pride could easily backfire, according to Ayala Shani, a queer activist with the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign. She points out that banning a term will only multiply its use and adds: \"We are expecting to see 'Israeli apartheid' written and spoken all over pride parades around the world, including a parade in Tel Aviv.\"However, with the Canadian mainstream left dodging defence of Palestinians and the country at large continuing its polite silence on the Middle East, Toronto's establishment may be taking more pride in silencing discussion of Israeli apartheid than even Tel Aviv.\u2022 Comments on this article will remain open for 24 hours from the time of publication but may be closed overnight", "tags": ["Canada", "LGBT rights", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: Israel's new defender | Jesse Rosenfeld"},{"date": "2010-06-08T23:06:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Please accept this plea from Canada to avoid the excesses of a \"Canadian-style star chamber\" (Cameron: cuts 'will change British life', 7 June). In the 1990s, Canada's federal government was gripped by a zealous enthusiasm for spending cuts that resulted in billions of dollars cut mainly from health, education, housing and other social spending.Canada's much-heralded national housing programme was dismantled in the Liberals' 1996 federal budget. The Liberal leader of today, Michael Ignatieff, has publicly apologised for the excessive housing cuts of his predecessors, and other Liberal politicians of the day have mused, publicly and privately, that the cuts of the 1990s went too deep.In its 2008 report Growing Unequal, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development noted that while Canada did better than the rest of the OECD in cutting poverty and income inequality from 1985 to 1995, we fell behind the OECD in the decade starting in 1995.The fevered political atmosphere and deficit mania of the 1990s led Canada's federal government to make drastic cuts in programmes that have had a deep impact on the quality of life for all Canadians. The lesson from the \"Canadian-style star chamber\" of the 1990s is that it is brutally easy to make swingeing cuts to public social expenditures, but that those cuts have deep and long-term consequences for people, communities, the entire society and the economy.Michael ShapcottDirector, affordable housing and social innovation, Wellesley Institute\u2022\u2008Let me just make sure I've got this right. First of all, a bunch of bankers lose unimaginable amounts of our money by making bets on a bunch of dodgy mortgages. Eventually the banks realise the bets are based on worthless assets, and that technically they are bankrupt.The government bails them out with billions of pounds, transferring the debt to the public sector. The bankers, full of gratitude, pay themselves multimillion-pound bonuses which they invest in such a way as to pay as little tax as possible.We express our anger by voting out the government and replacing it with a new one, which promptly blames the debt on the profligate spending of its predecessor, and tells us that the only solution is to cut public services. Civil servants lose their jobs, unemployment rises, libraries are closed, support services for the very poor, the dispossessed and the desperate disappear. Those who caused this mess in the first place get away with it, and are probably already planning the next disaster.Are we really that gullible?Matt NicholsonBristol\u2022\u2008Tax versus expenditure remains an ideological as well as an economic question that each generation needs to ask itself anew. Do we tax more (affecting the richest in society more) or spend less (hurting the poorest in society more)? So far, nobody is openly addressing this issue, beyond mooting small increases in VAT and an increase in tax on certain speculative forms of wealth generation. If the relative merits of cutting spending and raising taxes are not publicly discussed soon, those on the economic-liberal right will be able to continue gleefully dressing up their ideologies as economic necessity. The bigger question of what kind of a society we want will thus have been answered without even being asked.Dr Richard MisekUniversity of Bristol\u2022\u2008Julian Glover rightly identifies the Labour government's financial backing for Sheffield Forgemasters as an example of the activist industrial policy it developed in response to the recession (Comment, 7 June). But it was not the only example. The last government was also supporting the development of offshore wind turbine manufacturing, through finance for innovation and improvements to port facilities. As a result, four global turbine manufacturers had announced intentions to set up plants here. Similar policies led Nissan to announce the manufacture of Europe's first mass-produced electric car in Sunderland, with the first battery plant next door. Labour understood that the new low-carbon industries can be vital engines of jobs and growth, but they need support. As it reviews the last government's spending commitments, does the new coalition get it?Michael JacobsSpecial adviser to Gordon Brown, 2004-10", "tags": ["Public sector cuts", "Public finance", "Society", "Economic policy", "Tax and spending", "David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Liberal-Conservative coalition", "UK news", "Canada", "World news", "Michael Ignatieff", "Nissan", "Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Green economy", "Wind power", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Letters: Canada, cuts and communities"},{"date": "2010-06-17T10:30:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "At a time when many countries are becoming more critical of Israel's policies, Canada seems to be moving in the opposite direction. A general reluctance to engage in open debate about the Palestinian issue is exacerbated by pro-Israel groups' efforts to shut down discussion and the federal government's unprecedented penchant for defending Israeli actions.Since the beginning of 2010, the federal government has systematically cut funding to Arab-Canadian organisations and to UN relief works in Gaza. In March, the Ontario provincial legislature issued a unanimous condemnation of Israeli Apartheid Week, while the federal government considered introducing a similar motion.However, self-censorship reached new heights last month when Toronto's Pride Committee \u2013 which organises one of the world's largest gay pride celebrations \u2013 announced it would be banning use of the term \"Israeli apartheid\" at the festivities.Pride week in Toronto is a loud and highly visible public event, with a long tradition of activists linking their own campaigns for sexual rights to other struggles for liberation and social justice; however, this year the organisers caved in to pressure from pro-Israel groups and Toronto city council.The main effect of the decision is to bar one group in particular \u2013 Queers Against Israeli Apartheid (QuAIA) \u2013 who have marched in the parade since 2008.The reason given is that the phrase \"Israeli apartheid\" violates Toronto's anti-discrimination policy. But when asked, neither Pride Toronto nor Giorgio Mammoliti \u2013 the Toronto city councillor mainly involved \u2013 could explain in detail what was discriminatory about describing Israel's privileging of its Jewish citizens over others as a form or racism and apartheid.\"It's absolutely bizarre the way they are trying to use the language around diversity and inclusiveness to exclude people,\" QuAIA activist Tim McCaskell told me. \"It was so 1984.\"Accompanying the onset of a Canadian McCarthyism dressed up as anti-discrimination, the mainstream left in Canada has been unwilling to take a clear political and moral stance on Palestine. Instead it has sought the approach of least resistance, trying to appease rather than take a stand against the silencing of Palestinian voices in Canada and Israel.Writing in NOW Magazine, a progressive Toronto weekly newspaper, news editor Ellie Kirzner contended that Palestinians and their supporters should simply drop the term \"apartheid\". \"It's a vulnerability the movement doesn't need,\" she wrote.McCaskell, on the other hand, says QuAIA is bringing the fight against Israeli apartheid to pride because that is what Palestinian LGBT organisations have requested, and because Israel tries to present itself as queer-tolerant in an attempt to distract from its ill-treatment of Palestinians.The two Palestinian LGBT groups, Aswat and al-Qaws (both based in Israel), issued a joint statement saying: \"Pride parades started as political marches, and we firmly believe that solidarity should be with human rights first and foremost.\" They continued:We believe that as queers, one of the most disadvantaged and oppressed minorities in human societies, we should protest against all forms of oppression and struggle together to promote the rights of minorities and oppressed groups. As Palestinian queers, our struggle relates to social injustices caused by the discrimination that is deeply rooted in Israel's policies and practices against the Palestinian people, straight and gay alike ...Over the past decades, Pride parades around the world have been a platform for queers, not only to increase public awareness for [LGBT] rights, but also a platform to promote and defend causes like the feminist struggle, and the fight to end apartheid in South Africa.Trying to smother this debate in relation to Israel at Toronto pride could easily backfire, according to Ayala Shani, a queer activist with the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign. She points out that banning a term will only multiply its use and adds: \"We are expecting to see 'Israeli apartheid' written and spoken all over pride parades around the world, including a parade in Tel Aviv.\"However, with the Canadian mainstream left dodging defence of Palestinians and the country at large continuing its polite silence on the Middle East, Toronto's establishment may be taking more pride in silencing discussion of Israeli apartheid than even Tel Aviv.\u2022 Comments on this article will remain open for 24 hours from the time of publication but may be closed overnight", "tags": ["Canada", "LGBT rights", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: Israel's new defender | Jesse Rosenfeld"},{"date": "2010-06-08T23:06:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Please accept this plea from Canada to avoid the excesses of a \"Canadian-style star chamber\" (Cameron: cuts 'will change British life', 7 June). In the 1990s, Canada's federal government was gripped by a zealous enthusiasm for spending cuts that resulted in billions of dollars cut mainly from health, education, housing and other social spending.Canada's much-heralded national housing programme was dismantled in the Liberals' 1996 federal budget. The Liberal leader of today, Michael Ignatieff, has publicly apologised for the excessive housing cuts of his predecessors, and other Liberal politicians of the day have mused, publicly and privately, that the cuts of the 1990s went too deep.In its 2008 report Growing Unequal, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development noted that while Canada did better than the rest of the OECD in cutting poverty and income inequality from 1985 to 1995, we fell behind the OECD in the decade starting in 1995.The fevered political atmosphere and deficit mania of the 1990s led Canada's federal government to make drastic cuts in programmes that have had a deep impact on the quality of life for all Canadians. The lesson from the \"Canadian-style star chamber\" of the 1990s is that it is brutally easy to make swingeing cuts to public social expenditures, but that those cuts have deep and long-term consequences for people, communities, the entire society and the economy.Michael ShapcottDirector, affordable housing and social innovation, Wellesley Institute\u2022\u2008Let me just make sure I've got this right. First of all, a bunch of bankers lose unimaginable amounts of our money by making bets on a bunch of dodgy mortgages. Eventually the banks realise the bets are based on worthless assets, and that technically they are bankrupt.The government bails them out with billions of pounds, transferring the debt to the public sector. The bankers, full of gratitude, pay themselves multimillion-pound bonuses which they invest in such a way as to pay as little tax as possible.We express our anger by voting out the government and replacing it with a new one, which promptly blames the debt on the profligate spending of its predecessor, and tells us that the only solution is to cut public services. Civil servants lose their jobs, unemployment rises, libraries are closed, support services for the very poor, the dispossessed and the desperate disappear. Those who caused this mess in the first place get away with it, and are probably already planning the next disaster.Are we really that gullible?Matt NicholsonBristol\u2022\u2008Tax versus expenditure remains an ideological as well as an economic question that each generation needs to ask itself anew. Do we tax more (affecting the richest in society more) or spend less (hurting the poorest in society more)? So far, nobody is openly addressing this issue, beyond mooting small increases in VAT and an increase in tax on certain speculative forms of wealth generation. If the relative merits of cutting spending and raising taxes are not publicly discussed soon, those on the economic-liberal right will be able to continue gleefully dressing up their ideologies as economic necessity. The bigger question of what kind of a society we want will thus have been answered without even being asked.Dr Richard MisekUniversity of Bristol\u2022\u2008Julian Glover rightly identifies the Labour government's financial backing for Sheffield Forgemasters as an example of the activist industrial policy it developed in response to the recession (Comment, 7 June). But it was not the only example. The last government was also supporting the development of offshore wind turbine manufacturing, through finance for innovation and improvements to port facilities. As a result, four global turbine manufacturers had announced intentions to set up plants here. Similar policies led Nissan to announce the manufacture of Europe's first mass-produced electric car in Sunderland, with the first battery plant next door. Labour understood that the new low-carbon industries can be vital engines of jobs and growth, but they need support. As it reviews the last government's spending commitments, does the new coalition get it?Michael JacobsSpecial adviser to Gordon Brown, 2004-10", "tags": ["Public sector cuts", "Public finance", "Society", "Economic policy", "Tax and spending", "David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Liberal-Conservative coalition", "UK news", "Canada", "World news", "Michael Ignatieff", "Nissan", "Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Green economy", "Wind power", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Letters: Canada, cuts and communities"},{"date": "2010-06-01T12:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "An interesting statistic was released last week in Canada: According to the Sex Information and Education Council, the nation's teenage birth and abortion rate fell 36.9% between 1996 and 2006. The lead researcher of the report, Alexander McKay, told the Globe and Mail that the decline reflected Canada's attitude toward the issue \u2013 that the more societies have an \"accepting attitude\" to teenage pregnancy, the less of it one finds. As for abortion, McKay said: \"It's not that young women are viewing abortion as a form of birth control. Rather they do view it as an acceptable \u2013 although regrettable \u2013 way of dealing with an unwanted pregnancy when it occurs.\"As the host government for the upcoming G8 and G20 meetings near the end of June in Ontario, Stephen Harper's Conservative party has planned to make funding for maternal health in developing nations a priority topic. However, that discussion will take place with the knowledge that Canada's financial contribution to family planning programmes will not include funding for abortions. That is to say, the Tories are not about to allow women from developing nations the same kind choice that women in Canada have. Why not?In late April, when he was asked how the federal Liberal party might try to shake itself from its current stagnant position in the polls, Ekos Research pollster Frank Graves made some interesting remarks to Lawrence Martin of the Globe and Mail. Graves said that he'd told the Liberals to:\"Invoke a culture war. Cosmopolitanism versus parochialism, secularism versus moralism, Obama versus Palin, tolerance versus racism and homophobia, democracy versus autocracy. If the cranky old men in Alberta don't like it, too bad. Go south and vote for Palin.\"The cranky (not so old) men didn't like it. Graves appeared on the CBC's Power & Politics to explain his quote and debated with former Tory spokesman Kory Teneycke, who called his comments \"offensive\". A brief national media debate followed, centered on the notion of a Canadian \"culture war\" \u2013 one that might pit Canuck versus Canuck on the nation's ideological battleground \u2013 as if it were an unheard-of possibility.The thing is, Graves's comments, while somewhat incendiary, trampled upon a silent rift in Canadian society \u2013 one that Harper is currently exploiting: the rise of social conservatism in a nation that has historically viewed itself as socially progressive.Harper's life is no stranger to the influence of faith-based social conservatism and the perceived threat of moral relativism. After all, his political career began under the watch of the \"Calgary School\" as an early adviser to the now-defunct Reform party that was born in the University of Calgary's political science department. His direct mentor in those early years was Preston Manning, founder of the Reform party and son of former Alberta premier and evangelical radio host (simultaneously), Ernest Manning.In 2003, when Harper was still the leader of the Canadian Alliance party (a successor to the Reform party), he gave a speech to British thinktank Civitas. He said:\"Rebalancing the conservative agenda will require careful political judgment. First, the issues must be chosen carefully. For example, the social conservative issues we choose should not be denominational, but should unite social conservatives of different denominations and even different faiths.\"For the most part, Harper's successive minority governments have followed this train of thought. Some have alleged that Harper, who \"found\" religion while in Calgary, is at the heart of a national cabal of evangelicals pushing to reinstate Canada as a Christian nation that must fulfill its destiny as laid out in its national motto (\"He shall have dominion also from sea to sea,\" from Psalm 72:8-9) before the End Times. But the fact is that he is probably much more cerebral, critical, and calculating than that.To that effect, many of Harper's more contentious social policy moves have been designed to evoke conservative morality rather than religiosity. Whether it has been the party's stance on youth crime, raising the age of sexual consent, or its persistent attempts to close Vancouver's safe drug injection programme, Insite, the Harper government has a record of presenting Canadians not with specifically faith-based policy, but moral wedge issues.What this means for the average Canadian is that, slowly but surely, the Conservative party is changing the framework of the national debate. Harper's Tories are picking their issues carefully, and appealing to those centre-right voters who have historically sided with the Liberals. The culture war that Graves alluded to is effectively already under way: the progressive Canada that dominated the latter half of the 20th century \u2013 the one that legalised the pill, sodomy, abortion, and gay marriage \u2013 is changing, buried incrementally by calculated socially conservative policies.While the press debated Graves's comments, the question on maternal health funding was playing out in parliament. The opposition Liberals half-heartedly pressed the Tories on the abortion funding, but so lax was their willingness to debate the issue, Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff's motion on the topic died thanks to the absence of 13 of his own party members. This was partly due to party disorganisation, but it implies an unwillingness to engage in the debate.Since his government's decision not to fund legal abortions overseas, Harper has been adamant that he had no desire to re-open the debate on abortions in Canada, saying he would \"oppose\" such a move. In doing so, Harper has steered clear of a faith-based domestic political landmine, relegating it to the realm of foreign policy, and effectively out of the minds of most Canadians. At the same time, he has given the suggestion of landing on the righteous side of a religiously charged debate, while keeping himself at arm's length. This way, Harper doesn't alienate himself from the average Canadian \u2013 particularly the centre-right voters. It is a repeated, adept, but not at all secretive, pattern of finding and exploiting those secular issues that strike at the heart of a silently religious nation.It all means that the decision not to allow funding for safe abortions in developing nations most likely has very little to do with the security and health of the approximately 70,000 women who die annually during unsafe ones. Instead, it has everything to do with the Conservative party's own domestic political gains, and pandering to a lucrative \u2013 and growing \u2013 conservative base. It's decidedly cynical, but it seems to have worked. A recent poll found that, though 58% of Canadians said they were against the government's decision, it was those in favour of the move who held the biggest ever pro-life rally on Parliament Hill to celebrate it.", "tags": ["Canada", "Abortion", "World news", "Women", "Life and style", "Maternal health", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Progressive Canada is slipping away | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2010-06-17T10:30:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "At a time when many countries are becoming more critical of Israel's policies, Canada seems to be moving in the opposite direction. A general reluctance to engage in open debate about the Palestinian issue is exacerbated by pro-Israel groups' efforts to shut down discussion and the federal government's unprecedented penchant for defending Israeli actions.Since the beginning of 2010, the federal government has systematically cut funding to Arab-Canadian organisations and to UN relief works in Gaza. In March, the Ontario provincial legislature issued a unanimous condemnation of Israeli Apartheid Week, while the federal government considered introducing a similar motion.However, self-censorship reached new heights last month when Toronto's Pride Committee \u2013 which organises one of the world's largest gay pride celebrations \u2013 announced it would be banning use of the term \"Israeli apartheid\" at the festivities.Pride week in Toronto is a loud and highly visible public event, with a long tradition of activists linking their own campaigns for sexual rights to other struggles for liberation and social justice; however, this year the organisers caved in to pressure from pro-Israel groups and Toronto city council.The main effect of the decision is to bar one group in particular \u2013 Queers Against Israeli Apartheid (QuAIA) \u2013 who have marched in the parade since 2008.The reason given is that the phrase \"Israeli apartheid\" violates Toronto's anti-discrimination policy. But when asked, neither Pride Toronto nor Giorgio Mammoliti \u2013 the Toronto city councillor mainly involved \u2013 could explain in detail what was discriminatory about describing Israel's privileging of its Jewish citizens over others as a form or racism and apartheid.\"It's absolutely bizarre the way they are trying to use the language around diversity and inclusiveness to exclude people,\" QuAIA activist Tim McCaskell told me. \"It was so 1984.\"Accompanying the onset of a Canadian McCarthyism dressed up as anti-discrimination, the mainstream left in Canada has been unwilling to take a clear political and moral stance on Palestine. Instead it has sought the approach of least resistance, trying to appease rather than take a stand against the silencing of Palestinian voices in Canada and Israel.Writing in NOW Magazine, a progressive Toronto weekly newspaper, news editor Ellie Kirzner contended that Palestinians and their supporters should simply drop the term \"apartheid\". \"It's a vulnerability the movement doesn't need,\" she wrote.McCaskell, on the other hand, says QuAIA is bringing the fight against Israeli apartheid to pride because that is what Palestinian LGBT organisations have requested, and because Israel tries to present itself as queer-tolerant in an attempt to distract from its ill-treatment of Palestinians.The two Palestinian LGBT groups, Aswat and al-Qaws (both based in Israel), issued a joint statement saying: \"Pride parades started as political marches, and we firmly believe that solidarity should be with human rights first and foremost.\" They continued:We believe that as queers, one of the most disadvantaged and oppressed minorities in human societies, we should protest against all forms of oppression and struggle together to promote the rights of minorities and oppressed groups. As Palestinian queers, our struggle relates to social injustices caused by the discrimination that is deeply rooted in Israel's policies and practices against the Palestinian people, straight and gay alike ...Over the past decades, Pride parades around the world have been a platform for queers, not only to increase public awareness for [LGBT] rights, but also a platform to promote and defend causes like the feminist struggle, and the fight to end apartheid in South Africa.Trying to smother this debate in relation to Israel at Toronto pride could easily backfire, according to Ayala Shani, a queer activist with the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign. She points out that banning a term will only multiply its use and adds: \"We are expecting to see 'Israeli apartheid' written and spoken all over pride parades around the world, including a parade in Tel Aviv.\"However, with the Canadian mainstream left dodging defence of Palestinians and the country at large continuing its polite silence on the Middle East, Toronto's establishment may be taking more pride in silencing discussion of Israeli apartheid than even Tel Aviv.\u2022 Comments on this article will remain open for 24 hours from the time of publication but may be closed overnight", "tags": ["Canada", "LGBT rights", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: Israel's new defender | Jesse Rosenfeld"},{"date": "2010-06-08T23:06:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Please accept this plea from Canada to avoid the excesses of a \"Canadian-style star chamber\" (Cameron: cuts 'will change British life', 7 June). In the 1990s, Canada's federal government was gripped by a zealous enthusiasm for spending cuts that resulted in billions of dollars cut mainly from health, education, housing and other social spending.Canada's much-heralded national housing programme was dismantled in the Liberals' 1996 federal budget. The Liberal leader of today, Michael Ignatieff, has publicly apologised for the excessive housing cuts of his predecessors, and other Liberal politicians of the day have mused, publicly and privately, that the cuts of the 1990s went too deep.In its 2008 report Growing Unequal, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development noted that while Canada did better than the rest of the OECD in cutting poverty and income inequality from 1985 to 1995, we fell behind the OECD in the decade starting in 1995.The fevered political atmosphere and deficit mania of the 1990s led Canada's federal government to make drastic cuts in programmes that have had a deep impact on the quality of life for all Canadians. The lesson from the \"Canadian-style star chamber\" of the 1990s is that it is brutally easy to make swingeing cuts to public social expenditures, but that those cuts have deep and long-term consequences for people, communities, the entire society and the economy.Michael ShapcottDirector, affordable housing and social innovation, Wellesley Institute\u2022\u2008Let me just make sure I've got this right. First of all, a bunch of bankers lose unimaginable amounts of our money by making bets on a bunch of dodgy mortgages. Eventually the banks realise the bets are based on worthless assets, and that technically they are bankrupt.The government bails them out with billions of pounds, transferring the debt to the public sector. The bankers, full of gratitude, pay themselves multimillion-pound bonuses which they invest in such a way as to pay as little tax as possible.We express our anger by voting out the government and replacing it with a new one, which promptly blames the debt on the profligate spending of its predecessor, and tells us that the only solution is to cut public services. Civil servants lose their jobs, unemployment rises, libraries are closed, support services for the very poor, the dispossessed and the desperate disappear. Those who caused this mess in the first place get away with it, and are probably already planning the next disaster.Are we really that gullible?Matt NicholsonBristol\u2022\u2008Tax versus expenditure remains an ideological as well as an economic question that each generation needs to ask itself anew. Do we tax more (affecting the richest in society more) or spend less (hurting the poorest in society more)? So far, nobody is openly addressing this issue, beyond mooting small increases in VAT and an increase in tax on certain speculative forms of wealth generation. If the relative merits of cutting spending and raising taxes are not publicly discussed soon, those on the economic-liberal right will be able to continue gleefully dressing up their ideologies as economic necessity. The bigger question of what kind of a society we want will thus have been answered without even being asked.Dr Richard MisekUniversity of Bristol\u2022\u2008Julian Glover rightly identifies the Labour government's financial backing for Sheffield Forgemasters as an example of the activist industrial policy it developed in response to the recession (Comment, 7 June). But it was not the only example. The last government was also supporting the development of offshore wind turbine manufacturing, through finance for innovation and improvements to port facilities. As a result, four global turbine manufacturers had announced intentions to set up plants here. Similar policies led Nissan to announce the manufacture of Europe's first mass-produced electric car in Sunderland, with the first battery plant next door. Labour understood that the new low-carbon industries can be vital engines of jobs and growth, but they need support. As it reviews the last government's spending commitments, does the new coalition get it?Michael JacobsSpecial adviser to Gordon Brown, 2004-10", "tags": ["Public sector cuts", "Public finance", "Society", "Economic policy", "Tax and spending", "David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Liberal-Conservative coalition", "UK news", "Canada", "World news", "Michael Ignatieff", "Nissan", "Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Green economy", "Wind power", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Letters: Canada, cuts and communities"},{"date": "2010-06-01T12:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "An interesting statistic was released last week in Canada: According to the Sex Information and Education Council, the nation's teenage birth and abortion rate fell 36.9% between 1996 and 2006. The lead researcher of the report, Alexander McKay, told the Globe and Mail that the decline reflected Canada's attitude toward the issue \u2013 that the more societies have an \"accepting attitude\" to teenage pregnancy, the less of it one finds. As for abortion, McKay said: \"It's not that young women are viewing abortion as a form of birth control. Rather they do view it as an acceptable \u2013 although regrettable \u2013 way of dealing with an unwanted pregnancy when it occurs.\"As the host government for the upcoming G8 and G20 meetings near the end of June in Ontario, Stephen Harper's Conservative party has planned to make funding for maternal health in developing nations a priority topic. However, that discussion will take place with the knowledge that Canada's financial contribution to family planning programmes will not include funding for abortions. That is to say, the Tories are not about to allow women from developing nations the same kind choice that women in Canada have. Why not?In late April, when he was asked how the federal Liberal party might try to shake itself from its current stagnant position in the polls, Ekos Research pollster Frank Graves made some interesting remarks to Lawrence Martin of the Globe and Mail. Graves said that he'd told the Liberals to:\"Invoke a culture war. Cosmopolitanism versus parochialism, secularism versus moralism, Obama versus Palin, tolerance versus racism and homophobia, democracy versus autocracy. If the cranky old men in Alberta don't like it, too bad. Go south and vote for Palin.\"The cranky (not so old) men didn't like it. Graves appeared on the CBC's Power & Politics to explain his quote and debated with former Tory spokesman Kory Teneycke, who called his comments \"offensive\". A brief national media debate followed, centered on the notion of a Canadian \"culture war\" \u2013 one that might pit Canuck versus Canuck on the nation's ideological battleground \u2013 as if it were an unheard-of possibility.The thing is, Graves's comments, while somewhat incendiary, trampled upon a silent rift in Canadian society \u2013 one that Harper is currently exploiting: the rise of social conservatism in a nation that has historically viewed itself as socially progressive.Harper's life is no stranger to the influence of faith-based social conservatism and the perceived threat of moral relativism. After all, his political career began under the watch of the \"Calgary School\" as an early adviser to the now-defunct Reform party that was born in the University of Calgary's political science department. His direct mentor in those early years was Preston Manning, founder of the Reform party and son of former Alberta premier and evangelical radio host (simultaneously), Ernest Manning.In 2003, when Harper was still the leader of the Canadian Alliance party (a successor to the Reform party), he gave a speech to British thinktank Civitas. He said:\"Rebalancing the conservative agenda will require careful political judgment. First, the issues must be chosen carefully. For example, the social conservative issues we choose should not be denominational, but should unite social conservatives of different denominations and even different faiths.\"For the most part, Harper's successive minority governments have followed this train of thought. Some have alleged that Harper, who \"found\" religion while in Calgary, is at the heart of a national cabal of evangelicals pushing to reinstate Canada as a Christian nation that must fulfill its destiny as laid out in its national motto (\"He shall have dominion also from sea to sea,\" from Psalm 72:8-9) before the End Times. But the fact is that he is probably much more cerebral, critical, and calculating than that.To that effect, many of Harper's more contentious social policy moves have been designed to evoke conservative morality rather than religiosity. Whether it has been the party's stance on youth crime, raising the age of sexual consent, or its persistent attempts to close Vancouver's safe drug injection programme, Insite, the Harper government has a record of presenting Canadians not with specifically faith-based policy, but moral wedge issues.What this means for the average Canadian is that, slowly but surely, the Conservative party is changing the framework of the national debate. Harper's Tories are picking their issues carefully, and appealing to those centre-right voters who have historically sided with the Liberals. The culture war that Graves alluded to is effectively already under way: the progressive Canada that dominated the latter half of the 20th century \u2013 the one that legalised the pill, sodomy, abortion, and gay marriage \u2013 is changing, buried incrementally by calculated socially conservative policies.While the press debated Graves's comments, the question on maternal health funding was playing out in parliament. The opposition Liberals half-heartedly pressed the Tories on the abortion funding, but so lax was their willingness to debate the issue, Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff's motion on the topic died thanks to the absence of 13 of his own party members. This was partly due to party disorganisation, but it implies an unwillingness to engage in the debate.Since his government's decision not to fund legal abortions overseas, Harper has been adamant that he had no desire to re-open the debate on abortions in Canada, saying he would \"oppose\" such a move. In doing so, Harper has steered clear of a faith-based domestic political landmine, relegating it to the realm of foreign policy, and effectively out of the minds of most Canadians. At the same time, he has given the suggestion of landing on the righteous side of a religiously charged debate, while keeping himself at arm's length. This way, Harper doesn't alienate himself from the average Canadian \u2013 particularly the centre-right voters. It is a repeated, adept, but not at all secretive, pattern of finding and exploiting those secular issues that strike at the heart of a silently religious nation.It all means that the decision not to allow funding for safe abortions in developing nations most likely has very little to do with the security and health of the approximately 70,000 women who die annually during unsafe ones. Instead, it has everything to do with the Conservative party's own domestic political gains, and pandering to a lucrative \u2013 and growing \u2013 conservative base. It's decidedly cynical, but it seems to have worked. A recent poll found that, though 58% of Canadians said they were against the government's decision, it was those in favour of the move who held the biggest ever pro-life rally on Parliament Hill to celebrate it.", "tags": ["Canada", "Abortion", "World news", "Women", "Life and style", "Maternal health", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Progressive Canada is slipping away | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2010-05-08T09:57:11Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hallelujah and about time too, Britain. Make that Great Britain. For what makes Britain great? You use your words, that's what.Right now, Canada sucks, and all because we have a hung Parliament and no one's done anything about it for years. We are ruled by Stephen Harper, a hard-right hick with a grudge who after serial elections cannot get a clear mandate from the voters.When you have a hung Parliament, you try to form coalitions. We have formed none. We remain hanging, like a dry-aged haunch of venison out back of the garage. Our MPs hurl figurative faeces at each other in the House of Commons and then go to monkey sleep under their minute Parliamentary desks, dreaming of democracy.I don't know if \"use your words\" is a common phrase in your country. Here, Canadian toddlers are regularly told this, a tactful New Age parent way of saying \"Stop hitting your little friend, you tiny nasty animal. Negotiate. Share your toys. Find a way.\"This is what Cameron and Clegg and the tragic Brown are doing as you read this, exchanging blizzards of eloquent Eton/Westminster School/Kirkcaldy High School\u2013taught words in order to make a nation-saving deal. Negotiation, blasts of words, a strategic ellipsis, then emollient phrases followed by the steely bits on reform of first-past-the-post and a hint of bending on immigration and, I would hope, no cuts to the BBC. It's real talk.Oh, there's nothing better than a hung parliament to give things a kick-start. I notice that faux-commiserating Americans get stuck on the word \"hung\" which to them either means death by hanging or, and I'm sorry to report this, a guy with a frontload of taint, with an inbuilt asset, if you get my drift and it's just as well if you don't.Also, Americans can't do the math. They are a simple people with a matching approach to life \u2013 win or lose \u2013 which is why they're now saying, \"Hey, your political system is as screwed as ours.\"I loved your TV debates, Great Britain. The BBC won on set design and then lost on election night with some kind of barge full of people like Joan Collins and Andrew Neil, and to my shrieking horror, was that Armando Iannucci smiling gently and taking notes?Excellent campaigning. If only our hateful pseudo-human prime minister would meet a nice granny in Kamloops and hurt her feelings. Actually, Harper would knee her in the groin and block her hip replacement, he's that personal in his hates.Canada has a Conservative minority government right now that does have a core belief. It's that Canadians deserve a good stomping, all of them. Conservatives can't stand people, particularly if they're female, or second-generation Canadian, or educated, or principled, or not from Alberta, which is the home of the hard-right belly-bulging middle-aged Tory male. Watch them at the G8, ostensibly fighting for women's health internationally while blocking abortions for raped Congolese.Harper cannot get a real majority. If the centre-right Liberals and the centre-left New Democrats would form a coalition, Harper would be toast and we'd get started on what we need: national day care, TGV trains, an economic strategy, a green strategy, oh a strategy for anything, a plan is all we seek.Instead we hang. How typical of Brown to say this will drag on, while Cameron says it must be quick. Brits want change, they want action, especially as the EU rots at the economic edges. Nothing will give them this faster than a coalition government \u2013 ideally a Lib Dem-Conservative one of ostensibly opposed interests \u2013 watching itself like a red-tailed hawk.Fun fact: Right now Canada's choosing a national bird. Some nominate the chilly blue jay. Some put forward the aforementioned elusive hawk. My husband's a birder. \"There, over there! By the cloud. It's flying over you right now. It just shit on your head. Are you blind?\"Me, I nominate the common sparrow. It's brownish and mouse-like, a worthy bird that will never have the nerve to form a coalition with a more glamorous creature, a crazy salad hawk with a duller meat for company.Truly, I am down on my hung Canada right now.But you, Britain at your greatest, you have a chance to fashion a government humming with energy and freshness, like a warm egg. Lay it now.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Hung parliament", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Try to ignore Canada, Britain | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-06-17T10:30:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "At a time when many countries are becoming more critical of Israel's policies, Canada seems to be moving in the opposite direction. A general reluctance to engage in open debate about the Palestinian issue is exacerbated by pro-Israel groups' efforts to shut down discussion and the federal government's unprecedented penchant for defending Israeli actions.Since the beginning of 2010, the federal government has systematically cut funding to Arab-Canadian organisations and to UN relief works in Gaza. In March, the Ontario provincial legislature issued a unanimous condemnation of Israeli Apartheid Week, while the federal government considered introducing a similar motion.However, self-censorship reached new heights last month when Toronto's Pride Committee \u2013 which organises one of the world's largest gay pride celebrations \u2013 announced it would be banning use of the term \"Israeli apartheid\" at the festivities.Pride week in Toronto is a loud and highly visible public event, with a long tradition of activists linking their own campaigns for sexual rights to other struggles for liberation and social justice; however, this year the organisers caved in to pressure from pro-Israel groups and Toronto city council.The main effect of the decision is to bar one group in particular \u2013 Queers Against Israeli Apartheid (QuAIA) \u2013 who have marched in the parade since 2008.The reason given is that the phrase \"Israeli apartheid\" violates Toronto's anti-discrimination policy. But when asked, neither Pride Toronto nor Giorgio Mammoliti \u2013 the Toronto city councillor mainly involved \u2013 could explain in detail what was discriminatory about describing Israel's privileging of its Jewish citizens over others as a form or racism and apartheid.\"It's absolutely bizarre the way they are trying to use the language around diversity and inclusiveness to exclude people,\" QuAIA activist Tim McCaskell told me. \"It was so 1984.\"Accompanying the onset of a Canadian McCarthyism dressed up as anti-discrimination, the mainstream left in Canada has been unwilling to take a clear political and moral stance on Palestine. Instead it has sought the approach of least resistance, trying to appease rather than take a stand against the silencing of Palestinian voices in Canada and Israel.Writing in NOW Magazine, a progressive Toronto weekly newspaper, news editor Ellie Kirzner contended that Palestinians and their supporters should simply drop the term \"apartheid\". \"It's a vulnerability the movement doesn't need,\" she wrote.McCaskell, on the other hand, says QuAIA is bringing the fight against Israeli apartheid to pride because that is what Palestinian LGBT organisations have requested, and because Israel tries to present itself as queer-tolerant in an attempt to distract from its ill-treatment of Palestinians.The two Palestinian LGBT groups, Aswat and al-Qaws (both based in Israel), issued a joint statement saying: \"Pride parades started as political marches, and we firmly believe that solidarity should be with human rights first and foremost.\" They continued:We believe that as queers, one of the most disadvantaged and oppressed minorities in human societies, we should protest against all forms of oppression and struggle together to promote the rights of minorities and oppressed groups. As Palestinian queers, our struggle relates to social injustices caused by the discrimination that is deeply rooted in Israel's policies and practices against the Palestinian people, straight and gay alike ...Over the past decades, Pride parades around the world have been a platform for queers, not only to increase public awareness for [LGBT] rights, but also a platform to promote and defend causes like the feminist struggle, and the fight to end apartheid in South Africa.Trying to smother this debate in relation to Israel at Toronto pride could easily backfire, according to Ayala Shani, a queer activist with the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign. She points out that banning a term will only multiply its use and adds: \"We are expecting to see 'Israeli apartheid' written and spoken all over pride parades around the world, including a parade in Tel Aviv.\"However, with the Canadian mainstream left dodging defence of Palestinians and the country at large continuing its polite silence on the Middle East, Toronto's establishment may be taking more pride in silencing discussion of Israeli apartheid than even Tel Aviv.\u2022 Comments on this article will remain open for 24 hours from the time of publication but may be closed overnight", "tags": ["Canada", "LGBT rights", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: Israel's new defender | Jesse Rosenfeld"},{"date": "2010-06-08T23:06:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Please accept this plea from Canada to avoid the excesses of a \"Canadian-style star chamber\" (Cameron: cuts 'will change British life', 7 June). In the 1990s, Canada's federal government was gripped by a zealous enthusiasm for spending cuts that resulted in billions of dollars cut mainly from health, education, housing and other social spending.Canada's much-heralded national housing programme was dismantled in the Liberals' 1996 federal budget. The Liberal leader of today, Michael Ignatieff, has publicly apologised for the excessive housing cuts of his predecessors, and other Liberal politicians of the day have mused, publicly and privately, that the cuts of the 1990s went too deep.In its 2008 report Growing Unequal, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development noted that while Canada did better than the rest of the OECD in cutting poverty and income inequality from 1985 to 1995, we fell behind the OECD in the decade starting in 1995.The fevered political atmosphere and deficit mania of the 1990s led Canada's federal government to make drastic cuts in programmes that have had a deep impact on the quality of life for all Canadians. The lesson from the \"Canadian-style star chamber\" of the 1990s is that it is brutally easy to make swingeing cuts to public social expenditures, but that those cuts have deep and long-term consequences for people, communities, the entire society and the economy.Michael ShapcottDirector, affordable housing and social innovation, Wellesley Institute\u2022\u2008Let me just make sure I've got this right. First of all, a bunch of bankers lose unimaginable amounts of our money by making bets on a bunch of dodgy mortgages. Eventually the banks realise the bets are based on worthless assets, and that technically they are bankrupt.The government bails them out with billions of pounds, transferring the debt to the public sector. The bankers, full of gratitude, pay themselves multimillion-pound bonuses which they invest in such a way as to pay as little tax as possible.We express our anger by voting out the government and replacing it with a new one, which promptly blames the debt on the profligate spending of its predecessor, and tells us that the only solution is to cut public services. Civil servants lose their jobs, unemployment rises, libraries are closed, support services for the very poor, the dispossessed and the desperate disappear. Those who caused this mess in the first place get away with it, and are probably already planning the next disaster.Are we really that gullible?Matt NicholsonBristol\u2022\u2008Tax versus expenditure remains an ideological as well as an economic question that each generation needs to ask itself anew. Do we tax more (affecting the richest in society more) or spend less (hurting the poorest in society more)? So far, nobody is openly addressing this issue, beyond mooting small increases in VAT and an increase in tax on certain speculative forms of wealth generation. If the relative merits of cutting spending and raising taxes are not publicly discussed soon, those on the economic-liberal right will be able to continue gleefully dressing up their ideologies as economic necessity. The bigger question of what kind of a society we want will thus have been answered without even being asked.Dr Richard MisekUniversity of Bristol\u2022\u2008Julian Glover rightly identifies the Labour government's financial backing for Sheffield Forgemasters as an example of the activist industrial policy it developed in response to the recession (Comment, 7 June). But it was not the only example. The last government was also supporting the development of offshore wind turbine manufacturing, through finance for innovation and improvements to port facilities. As a result, four global turbine manufacturers had announced intentions to set up plants here. Similar policies led Nissan to announce the manufacture of Europe's first mass-produced electric car in Sunderland, with the first battery plant next door. Labour understood that the new low-carbon industries can be vital engines of jobs and growth, but they need support. As it reviews the last government's spending commitments, does the new coalition get it?Michael JacobsSpecial adviser to Gordon Brown, 2004-10", "tags": ["Public sector cuts", "Public finance", "Society", "Economic policy", "Tax and spending", "David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Liberal-Conservative coalition", "UK news", "Canada", "World news", "Michael Ignatieff", "Nissan", "Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Green economy", "Wind power", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Letters: Canada, cuts and communities"},{"date": "2010-06-01T12:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "An interesting statistic was released last week in Canada: According to the Sex Information and Education Council, the nation's teenage birth and abortion rate fell 36.9% between 1996 and 2006. The lead researcher of the report, Alexander McKay, told the Globe and Mail that the decline reflected Canada's attitude toward the issue \u2013 that the more societies have an \"accepting attitude\" to teenage pregnancy, the less of it one finds. As for abortion, McKay said: \"It's not that young women are viewing abortion as a form of birth control. Rather they do view it as an acceptable \u2013 although regrettable \u2013 way of dealing with an unwanted pregnancy when it occurs.\"As the host government for the upcoming G8 and G20 meetings near the end of June in Ontario, Stephen Harper's Conservative party has planned to make funding for maternal health in developing nations a priority topic. However, that discussion will take place with the knowledge that Canada's financial contribution to family planning programmes will not include funding for abortions. That is to say, the Tories are not about to allow women from developing nations the same kind choice that women in Canada have. Why not?In late April, when he was asked how the federal Liberal party might try to shake itself from its current stagnant position in the polls, Ekos Research pollster Frank Graves made some interesting remarks to Lawrence Martin of the Globe and Mail. Graves said that he'd told the Liberals to:\"Invoke a culture war. Cosmopolitanism versus parochialism, secularism versus moralism, Obama versus Palin, tolerance versus racism and homophobia, democracy versus autocracy. If the cranky old men in Alberta don't like it, too bad. Go south and vote for Palin.\"The cranky (not so old) men didn't like it. Graves appeared on the CBC's Power & Politics to explain his quote and debated with former Tory spokesman Kory Teneycke, who called his comments \"offensive\". A brief national media debate followed, centered on the notion of a Canadian \"culture war\" \u2013 one that might pit Canuck versus Canuck on the nation's ideological battleground \u2013 as if it were an unheard-of possibility.The thing is, Graves's comments, while somewhat incendiary, trampled upon a silent rift in Canadian society \u2013 one that Harper is currently exploiting: the rise of social conservatism in a nation that has historically viewed itself as socially progressive.Harper's life is no stranger to the influence of faith-based social conservatism and the perceived threat of moral relativism. After all, his political career began under the watch of the \"Calgary School\" as an early adviser to the now-defunct Reform party that was born in the University of Calgary's political science department. His direct mentor in those early years was Preston Manning, founder of the Reform party and son of former Alberta premier and evangelical radio host (simultaneously), Ernest Manning.In 2003, when Harper was still the leader of the Canadian Alliance party (a successor to the Reform party), he gave a speech to British thinktank Civitas. He said:\"Rebalancing the conservative agenda will require careful political judgment. First, the issues must be chosen carefully. For example, the social conservative issues we choose should not be denominational, but should unite social conservatives of different denominations and even different faiths.\"For the most part, Harper's successive minority governments have followed this train of thought. Some have alleged that Harper, who \"found\" religion while in Calgary, is at the heart of a national cabal of evangelicals pushing to reinstate Canada as a Christian nation that must fulfill its destiny as laid out in its national motto (\"He shall have dominion also from sea to sea,\" from Psalm 72:8-9) before the End Times. But the fact is that he is probably much more cerebral, critical, and calculating than that.To that effect, many of Harper's more contentious social policy moves have been designed to evoke conservative morality rather than religiosity. Whether it has been the party's stance on youth crime, raising the age of sexual consent, or its persistent attempts to close Vancouver's safe drug injection programme, Insite, the Harper government has a record of presenting Canadians not with specifically faith-based policy, but moral wedge issues.What this means for the average Canadian is that, slowly but surely, the Conservative party is changing the framework of the national debate. Harper's Tories are picking their issues carefully, and appealing to those centre-right voters who have historically sided with the Liberals. The culture war that Graves alluded to is effectively already under way: the progressive Canada that dominated the latter half of the 20th century \u2013 the one that legalised the pill, sodomy, abortion, and gay marriage \u2013 is changing, buried incrementally by calculated socially conservative policies.While the press debated Graves's comments, the question on maternal health funding was playing out in parliament. The opposition Liberals half-heartedly pressed the Tories on the abortion funding, but so lax was their willingness to debate the issue, Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff's motion on the topic died thanks to the absence of 13 of his own party members. This was partly due to party disorganisation, but it implies an unwillingness to engage in the debate.Since his government's decision not to fund legal abortions overseas, Harper has been adamant that he had no desire to re-open the debate on abortions in Canada, saying he would \"oppose\" such a move. In doing so, Harper has steered clear of a faith-based domestic political landmine, relegating it to the realm of foreign policy, and effectively out of the minds of most Canadians. At the same time, he has given the suggestion of landing on the righteous side of a religiously charged debate, while keeping himself at arm's length. This way, Harper doesn't alienate himself from the average Canadian \u2013 particularly the centre-right voters. It is a repeated, adept, but not at all secretive, pattern of finding and exploiting those secular issues that strike at the heart of a silently religious nation.It all means that the decision not to allow funding for safe abortions in developing nations most likely has very little to do with the security and health of the approximately 70,000 women who die annually during unsafe ones. Instead, it has everything to do with the Conservative party's own domestic political gains, and pandering to a lucrative \u2013 and growing \u2013 conservative base. It's decidedly cynical, but it seems to have worked. A recent poll found that, though 58% of Canadians said they were against the government's decision, it was those in favour of the move who held the biggest ever pro-life rally on Parliament Hill to celebrate it.", "tags": ["Canada", "Abortion", "World news", "Women", "Life and style", "Maternal health", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Progressive Canada is slipping away | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2010-05-08T09:57:11Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hallelujah and about time too, Britain. Make that Great Britain. For what makes Britain great? You use your words, that's what.Right now, Canada sucks, and all because we have a hung Parliament and no one's done anything about it for years. We are ruled by Stephen Harper, a hard-right hick with a grudge who after serial elections cannot get a clear mandate from the voters.When you have a hung Parliament, you try to form coalitions. We have formed none. We remain hanging, like a dry-aged haunch of venison out back of the garage. Our MPs hurl figurative faeces at each other in the House of Commons and then go to monkey sleep under their minute Parliamentary desks, dreaming of democracy.I don't know if \"use your words\" is a common phrase in your country. Here, Canadian toddlers are regularly told this, a tactful New Age parent way of saying \"Stop hitting your little friend, you tiny nasty animal. Negotiate. Share your toys. Find a way.\"This is what Cameron and Clegg and the tragic Brown are doing as you read this, exchanging blizzards of eloquent Eton/Westminster School/Kirkcaldy High School\u2013taught words in order to make a nation-saving deal. Negotiation, blasts of words, a strategic ellipsis, then emollient phrases followed by the steely bits on reform of first-past-the-post and a hint of bending on immigration and, I would hope, no cuts to the BBC. It's real talk.Oh, there's nothing better than a hung parliament to give things a kick-start. I notice that faux-commiserating Americans get stuck on the word \"hung\" which to them either means death by hanging or, and I'm sorry to report this, a guy with a frontload of taint, with an inbuilt asset, if you get my drift and it's just as well if you don't.Also, Americans can't do the math. They are a simple people with a matching approach to life \u2013 win or lose \u2013 which is why they're now saying, \"Hey, your political system is as screwed as ours.\"I loved your TV debates, Great Britain. The BBC won on set design and then lost on election night with some kind of barge full of people like Joan Collins and Andrew Neil, and to my shrieking horror, was that Armando Iannucci smiling gently and taking notes?Excellent campaigning. If only our hateful pseudo-human prime minister would meet a nice granny in Kamloops and hurt her feelings. Actually, Harper would knee her in the groin and block her hip replacement, he's that personal in his hates.Canada has a Conservative minority government right now that does have a core belief. It's that Canadians deserve a good stomping, all of them. Conservatives can't stand people, particularly if they're female, or second-generation Canadian, or educated, or principled, or not from Alberta, which is the home of the hard-right belly-bulging middle-aged Tory male. Watch them at the G8, ostensibly fighting for women's health internationally while blocking abortions for raped Congolese.Harper cannot get a real majority. If the centre-right Liberals and the centre-left New Democrats would form a coalition, Harper would be toast and we'd get started on what we need: national day care, TGV trains, an economic strategy, a green strategy, oh a strategy for anything, a plan is all we seek.Instead we hang. How typical of Brown to say this will drag on, while Cameron says it must be quick. Brits want change, they want action, especially as the EU rots at the economic edges. Nothing will give them this faster than a coalition government \u2013 ideally a Lib Dem-Conservative one of ostensibly opposed interests \u2013 watching itself like a red-tailed hawk.Fun fact: Right now Canada's choosing a national bird. Some nominate the chilly blue jay. Some put forward the aforementioned elusive hawk. My husband's a birder. \"There, over there! By the cloud. It's flying over you right now. It just shit on your head. Are you blind?\"Me, I nominate the common sparrow. It's brownish and mouse-like, a worthy bird that will never have the nerve to form a coalition with a more glamorous creature, a crazy salad hawk with a duller meat for company.Truly, I am down on my hung Canada right now.But you, Britain at your greatest, you have a chance to fashion a government humming with energy and freshness, like a warm egg. Lay it now.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Hung parliament", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Try to ignore Canada, Britain | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-06-27T18:36:57Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It is ironic to hear Brits bemoaning the possible sale of their one rather dishy fast railway track \u2013 High Speed One from St Pancras International to the Channel Tunnel \u2013 to a bunch of retired Canadian teachers. It's too late for Britain now. Any society that would allow the sale of its phone, electricity, gas and water to private companies, particularly foreigners, decades ago and then complain about losing Cadbury chocolates... well, your values are skewed.So are Canadian values, which is where the irony comes in. We'd love it if our teachers bought a high-speed rail line from us. If we had one to sell, which we don't.There may not be a nation in the world that needs high-speed trains more than Canada does. We're a big country, with long, boring highways between our lonely cities sustained by a restricted oil supply extracted at hideous environmental cost from the tar sands of Alberta. Compared to us, why do Brits even need a train \u00e0 grande vitesse on that 67-mile route? But our hard-right government opposes ambitious infrastructure projects. They reek of the future, and prime minister Stephen Harper hates the future, his aim being to return Canada to a notional past. He also sees train projects as \"big government\", which your David Cameron similarly hates. And here is where I do mourn for both our nations.The Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan is huge and powerful. The compounded savings of a sturdy unionised group of 289,000 teachers, run by a pleasant grey-faced man named Jim, are worth C$96.4bn (\u00a362bn). To you, it's just another foreign monolith that keeps buying things dear to your heart. To me it is, quite literally, my youth. It is my Miss Jean Brodie, but in a nice way: Miss Batty's class in English literature and Mr Butcher's class on Canadian history (which is mainly about railways). The money you may have to hand over to them when you race to the Chunnel is keeping my beloved teachers of yore in bacon and Manitoba minks (our name for puffy down coats) to this very day.The attempt to purchase the 30-year concession for the High Speed One route is part of a trend. Teachers, a solid, practical bunch of no-risk managers, is getting the hell out of Canadian investments because they don't see them as good for the long term. Sixty years from now Teachers will have to buy total-body joint replacements for the young people now about to finish their first year of teaching. Apparently, it has more faith in Brits eternally buying lottery tickets (it owns your Camelot) than in, say, Canada ever building a desperately desired high-speed train between Montreal and Toronto.We want Teachers; they don't want us. They want you but you don't want them, and rightly so. The Guardian reports that any new owner may dump its current maintenance contract with Network Rail. Why should they be allowed to fire workers whose executives just got huge bonuses? And what kind of country would divide its treasured rail network in two \u2013 one bit owning the trains and the other owning the track \u2013 and then sell it off in the first place? That's crazy.I just finished reading Matthew Engel's entrancingly squalid history of British rail, Eleven Minutes Late: A Train Journey to the Soul of Britain, in which he describes the sheer awfulness of train travel that followed privatisation: the crowds, noise, delays, the crimes against food, the air of interpersonal hatred. The book climaxes with the author's encounter with a surly staffer on the route from Euston to Glasgow. \"Have a bacon roll, you cunt,\" the man told him.My husband travelled from Montreal to Toronto yesterday by train. It was a dreary six-hour ride delayed by an earthquake between the two cities. Via Rail, as the hated company is called, halted its trains to see if any rails had shifted. Some might call this prudent. But I doubt that Japan, one of the most earthquake-prone landscapes in the world, shuts down its bullet trains every time the coffee cups tremble.I oppose the sale of national essentials to foreigners hot for profit. Teachers is simply another heartless multinational with a benign face, which is what you'll think when your Slow Speed One train gently chugs along making little steam-engine noises. But judging by that train wreck of a Tory budget, you'll never be able to afford a ticket anyway. We are all hobos now.", "tags": ["Channel Tunnel", "Canada", "Rail travel", "World news", "Privatisation", "UK news", "Rail transport", "Americas"], "title": "Canada needs its own high-speed rail, not the UK's | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-06-17T10:30:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "At a time when many countries are becoming more critical of Israel's policies, Canada seems to be moving in the opposite direction. A general reluctance to engage in open debate about the Palestinian issue is exacerbated by pro-Israel groups' efforts to shut down discussion and the federal government's unprecedented penchant for defending Israeli actions.Since the beginning of 2010, the federal government has systematically cut funding to Arab-Canadian organisations and to UN relief works in Gaza. In March, the Ontario provincial legislature issued a unanimous condemnation of Israeli Apartheid Week, while the federal government considered introducing a similar motion.However, self-censorship reached new heights last month when Toronto's Pride Committee \u2013 which organises one of the world's largest gay pride celebrations \u2013 announced it would be banning use of the term \"Israeli apartheid\" at the festivities.Pride week in Toronto is a loud and highly visible public event, with a long tradition of activists linking their own campaigns for sexual rights to other struggles for liberation and social justice; however, this year the organisers caved in to pressure from pro-Israel groups and Toronto city council.The main effect of the decision is to bar one group in particular \u2013 Queers Against Israeli Apartheid (QuAIA) \u2013 who have marched in the parade since 2008.The reason given is that the phrase \"Israeli apartheid\" violates Toronto's anti-discrimination policy. But when asked, neither Pride Toronto nor Giorgio Mammoliti \u2013 the Toronto city councillor mainly involved \u2013 could explain in detail what was discriminatory about describing Israel's privileging of its Jewish citizens over others as a form or racism and apartheid.\"It's absolutely bizarre the way they are trying to use the language around diversity and inclusiveness to exclude people,\" QuAIA activist Tim McCaskell told me. \"It was so 1984.\"Accompanying the onset of a Canadian McCarthyism dressed up as anti-discrimination, the mainstream left in Canada has been unwilling to take a clear political and moral stance on Palestine. Instead it has sought the approach of least resistance, trying to appease rather than take a stand against the silencing of Palestinian voices in Canada and Israel.Writing in NOW Magazine, a progressive Toronto weekly newspaper, news editor Ellie Kirzner contended that Palestinians and their supporters should simply drop the term \"apartheid\". \"It's a vulnerability the movement doesn't need,\" she wrote.McCaskell, on the other hand, says QuAIA is bringing the fight against Israeli apartheid to pride because that is what Palestinian LGBT organisations have requested, and because Israel tries to present itself as queer-tolerant in an attempt to distract from its ill-treatment of Palestinians.The two Palestinian LGBT groups, Aswat and al-Qaws (both based in Israel), issued a joint statement saying: \"Pride parades started as political marches, and we firmly believe that solidarity should be with human rights first and foremost.\" They continued:We believe that as queers, one of the most disadvantaged and oppressed minorities in human societies, we should protest against all forms of oppression and struggle together to promote the rights of minorities and oppressed groups. As Palestinian queers, our struggle relates to social injustices caused by the discrimination that is deeply rooted in Israel's policies and practices against the Palestinian people, straight and gay alike ...Over the past decades, Pride parades around the world have been a platform for queers, not only to increase public awareness for [LGBT] rights, but also a platform to promote and defend causes like the feminist struggle, and the fight to end apartheid in South Africa.Trying to smother this debate in relation to Israel at Toronto pride could easily backfire, according to Ayala Shani, a queer activist with the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign. She points out that banning a term will only multiply its use and adds: \"We are expecting to see 'Israeli apartheid' written and spoken all over pride parades around the world, including a parade in Tel Aviv.\"However, with the Canadian mainstream left dodging defence of Palestinians and the country at large continuing its polite silence on the Middle East, Toronto's establishment may be taking more pride in silencing discussion of Israeli apartheid than even Tel Aviv.\u2022 Comments on this article will remain open for 24 hours from the time of publication but may be closed overnight", "tags": ["Canada", "LGBT rights", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: Israel's new defender | Jesse Rosenfeld"},{"date": "2010-06-08T23:06:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Please accept this plea from Canada to avoid the excesses of a \"Canadian-style star chamber\" (Cameron: cuts 'will change British life', 7 June). In the 1990s, Canada's federal government was gripped by a zealous enthusiasm for spending cuts that resulted in billions of dollars cut mainly from health, education, housing and other social spending.Canada's much-heralded national housing programme was dismantled in the Liberals' 1996 federal budget. The Liberal leader of today, Michael Ignatieff, has publicly apologised for the excessive housing cuts of his predecessors, and other Liberal politicians of the day have mused, publicly and privately, that the cuts of the 1990s went too deep.In its 2008 report Growing Unequal, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development noted that while Canada did better than the rest of the OECD in cutting poverty and income inequality from 1985 to 1995, we fell behind the OECD in the decade starting in 1995.The fevered political atmosphere and deficit mania of the 1990s led Canada's federal government to make drastic cuts in programmes that have had a deep impact on the quality of life for all Canadians. The lesson from the \"Canadian-style star chamber\" of the 1990s is that it is brutally easy to make swingeing cuts to public social expenditures, but that those cuts have deep and long-term consequences for people, communities, the entire society and the economy.Michael ShapcottDirector, affordable housing and social innovation, Wellesley Institute\u2022\u2008Let me just make sure I've got this right. First of all, a bunch of bankers lose unimaginable amounts of our money by making bets on a bunch of dodgy mortgages. Eventually the banks realise the bets are based on worthless assets, and that technically they are bankrupt.The government bails them out with billions of pounds, transferring the debt to the public sector. The bankers, full of gratitude, pay themselves multimillion-pound bonuses which they invest in such a way as to pay as little tax as possible.We express our anger by voting out the government and replacing it with a new one, which promptly blames the debt on the profligate spending of its predecessor, and tells us that the only solution is to cut public services. Civil servants lose their jobs, unemployment rises, libraries are closed, support services for the very poor, the dispossessed and the desperate disappear. Those who caused this mess in the first place get away with it, and are probably already planning the next disaster.Are we really that gullible?Matt NicholsonBristol\u2022\u2008Tax versus expenditure remains an ideological as well as an economic question that each generation needs to ask itself anew. Do we tax more (affecting the richest in society more) or spend less (hurting the poorest in society more)? So far, nobody is openly addressing this issue, beyond mooting small increases in VAT and an increase in tax on certain speculative forms of wealth generation. If the relative merits of cutting spending and raising taxes are not publicly discussed soon, those on the economic-liberal right will be able to continue gleefully dressing up their ideologies as economic necessity. The bigger question of what kind of a society we want will thus have been answered without even being asked.Dr Richard MisekUniversity of Bristol\u2022\u2008Julian Glover rightly identifies the Labour government's financial backing for Sheffield Forgemasters as an example of the activist industrial policy it developed in response to the recession (Comment, 7 June). But it was not the only example. The last government was also supporting the development of offshore wind turbine manufacturing, through finance for innovation and improvements to port facilities. As a result, four global turbine manufacturers had announced intentions to set up plants here. Similar policies led Nissan to announce the manufacture of Europe's first mass-produced electric car in Sunderland, with the first battery plant next door. Labour understood that the new low-carbon industries can be vital engines of jobs and growth, but they need support. As it reviews the last government's spending commitments, does the new coalition get it?Michael JacobsSpecial adviser to Gordon Brown, 2004-10", "tags": ["Public sector cuts", "Public finance", "Society", "Economic policy", "Tax and spending", "David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Liberal-Conservative coalition", "UK news", "Canada", "World news", "Michael Ignatieff", "Nissan", "Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Green economy", "Wind power", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Letters: Canada, cuts and communities"},{"date": "2010-06-01T12:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "An interesting statistic was released last week in Canada: According to the Sex Information and Education Council, the nation's teenage birth and abortion rate fell 36.9% between 1996 and 2006. The lead researcher of the report, Alexander McKay, told the Globe and Mail that the decline reflected Canada's attitude toward the issue \u2013 that the more societies have an \"accepting attitude\" to teenage pregnancy, the less of it one finds. As for abortion, McKay said: \"It's not that young women are viewing abortion as a form of birth control. Rather they do view it as an acceptable \u2013 although regrettable \u2013 way of dealing with an unwanted pregnancy when it occurs.\"As the host government for the upcoming G8 and G20 meetings near the end of June in Ontario, Stephen Harper's Conservative party has planned to make funding for maternal health in developing nations a priority topic. However, that discussion will take place with the knowledge that Canada's financial contribution to family planning programmes will not include funding for abortions. That is to say, the Tories are not about to allow women from developing nations the same kind choice that women in Canada have. Why not?In late April, when he was asked how the federal Liberal party might try to shake itself from its current stagnant position in the polls, Ekos Research pollster Frank Graves made some interesting remarks to Lawrence Martin of the Globe and Mail. Graves said that he'd told the Liberals to:\"Invoke a culture war. Cosmopolitanism versus parochialism, secularism versus moralism, Obama versus Palin, tolerance versus racism and homophobia, democracy versus autocracy. If the cranky old men in Alberta don't like it, too bad. Go south and vote for Palin.\"The cranky (not so old) men didn't like it. Graves appeared on the CBC's Power & Politics to explain his quote and debated with former Tory spokesman Kory Teneycke, who called his comments \"offensive\". A brief national media debate followed, centered on the notion of a Canadian \"culture war\" \u2013 one that might pit Canuck versus Canuck on the nation's ideological battleground \u2013 as if it were an unheard-of possibility.The thing is, Graves's comments, while somewhat incendiary, trampled upon a silent rift in Canadian society \u2013 one that Harper is currently exploiting: the rise of social conservatism in a nation that has historically viewed itself as socially progressive.Harper's life is no stranger to the influence of faith-based social conservatism and the perceived threat of moral relativism. After all, his political career began under the watch of the \"Calgary School\" as an early adviser to the now-defunct Reform party that was born in the University of Calgary's political science department. His direct mentor in those early years was Preston Manning, founder of the Reform party and son of former Alberta premier and evangelical radio host (simultaneously), Ernest Manning.In 2003, when Harper was still the leader of the Canadian Alliance party (a successor to the Reform party), he gave a speech to British thinktank Civitas. He said:\"Rebalancing the conservative agenda will require careful political judgment. First, the issues must be chosen carefully. For example, the social conservative issues we choose should not be denominational, but should unite social conservatives of different denominations and even different faiths.\"For the most part, Harper's successive minority governments have followed this train of thought. Some have alleged that Harper, who \"found\" religion while in Calgary, is at the heart of a national cabal of evangelicals pushing to reinstate Canada as a Christian nation that must fulfill its destiny as laid out in its national motto (\"He shall have dominion also from sea to sea,\" from Psalm 72:8-9) before the End Times. But the fact is that he is probably much more cerebral, critical, and calculating than that.To that effect, many of Harper's more contentious social policy moves have been designed to evoke conservative morality rather than religiosity. Whether it has been the party's stance on youth crime, raising the age of sexual consent, or its persistent attempts to close Vancouver's safe drug injection programme, Insite, the Harper government has a record of presenting Canadians not with specifically faith-based policy, but moral wedge issues.What this means for the average Canadian is that, slowly but surely, the Conservative party is changing the framework of the national debate. Harper's Tories are picking their issues carefully, and appealing to those centre-right voters who have historically sided with the Liberals. The culture war that Graves alluded to is effectively already under way: the progressive Canada that dominated the latter half of the 20th century \u2013 the one that legalised the pill, sodomy, abortion, and gay marriage \u2013 is changing, buried incrementally by calculated socially conservative policies.While the press debated Graves's comments, the question on maternal health funding was playing out in parliament. The opposition Liberals half-heartedly pressed the Tories on the abortion funding, but so lax was their willingness to debate the issue, Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff's motion on the topic died thanks to the absence of 13 of his own party members. This was partly due to party disorganisation, but it implies an unwillingness to engage in the debate.Since his government's decision not to fund legal abortions overseas, Harper has been adamant that he had no desire to re-open the debate on abortions in Canada, saying he would \"oppose\" such a move. In doing so, Harper has steered clear of a faith-based domestic political landmine, relegating it to the realm of foreign policy, and effectively out of the minds of most Canadians. At the same time, he has given the suggestion of landing on the righteous side of a religiously charged debate, while keeping himself at arm's length. This way, Harper doesn't alienate himself from the average Canadian \u2013 particularly the centre-right voters. It is a repeated, adept, but not at all secretive, pattern of finding and exploiting those secular issues that strike at the heart of a silently religious nation.It all means that the decision not to allow funding for safe abortions in developing nations most likely has very little to do with the security and health of the approximately 70,000 women who die annually during unsafe ones. Instead, it has everything to do with the Conservative party's own domestic political gains, and pandering to a lucrative \u2013 and growing \u2013 conservative base. It's decidedly cynical, but it seems to have worked. A recent poll found that, though 58% of Canadians said they were against the government's decision, it was those in favour of the move who held the biggest ever pro-life rally on Parliament Hill to celebrate it.", "tags": ["Canada", "Abortion", "World news", "Women", "Life and style", "Maternal health", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Progressive Canada is slipping away | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2010-05-08T09:57:11Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hallelujah and about time too, Britain. Make that Great Britain. For what makes Britain great? You use your words, that's what.Right now, Canada sucks, and all because we have a hung Parliament and no one's done anything about it for years. We are ruled by Stephen Harper, a hard-right hick with a grudge who after serial elections cannot get a clear mandate from the voters.When you have a hung Parliament, you try to form coalitions. We have formed none. We remain hanging, like a dry-aged haunch of venison out back of the garage. Our MPs hurl figurative faeces at each other in the House of Commons and then go to monkey sleep under their minute Parliamentary desks, dreaming of democracy.I don't know if \"use your words\" is a common phrase in your country. Here, Canadian toddlers are regularly told this, a tactful New Age parent way of saying \"Stop hitting your little friend, you tiny nasty animal. Negotiate. Share your toys. Find a way.\"This is what Cameron and Clegg and the tragic Brown are doing as you read this, exchanging blizzards of eloquent Eton/Westminster School/Kirkcaldy High School\u2013taught words in order to make a nation-saving deal. Negotiation, blasts of words, a strategic ellipsis, then emollient phrases followed by the steely bits on reform of first-past-the-post and a hint of bending on immigration and, I would hope, no cuts to the BBC. It's real talk.Oh, there's nothing better than a hung parliament to give things a kick-start. I notice that faux-commiserating Americans get stuck on the word \"hung\" which to them either means death by hanging or, and I'm sorry to report this, a guy with a frontload of taint, with an inbuilt asset, if you get my drift and it's just as well if you don't.Also, Americans can't do the math. They are a simple people with a matching approach to life \u2013 win or lose \u2013 which is why they're now saying, \"Hey, your political system is as screwed as ours.\"I loved your TV debates, Great Britain. The BBC won on set design and then lost on election night with some kind of barge full of people like Joan Collins and Andrew Neil, and to my shrieking horror, was that Armando Iannucci smiling gently and taking notes?Excellent campaigning. If only our hateful pseudo-human prime minister would meet a nice granny in Kamloops and hurt her feelings. Actually, Harper would knee her in the groin and block her hip replacement, he's that personal in his hates.Canada has a Conservative minority government right now that does have a core belief. It's that Canadians deserve a good stomping, all of them. Conservatives can't stand people, particularly if they're female, or second-generation Canadian, or educated, or principled, or not from Alberta, which is the home of the hard-right belly-bulging middle-aged Tory male. Watch them at the G8, ostensibly fighting for women's health internationally while blocking abortions for raped Congolese.Harper cannot get a real majority. If the centre-right Liberals and the centre-left New Democrats would form a coalition, Harper would be toast and we'd get started on what we need: national day care, TGV trains, an economic strategy, a green strategy, oh a strategy for anything, a plan is all we seek.Instead we hang. How typical of Brown to say this will drag on, while Cameron says it must be quick. Brits want change, they want action, especially as the EU rots at the economic edges. Nothing will give them this faster than a coalition government \u2013 ideally a Lib Dem-Conservative one of ostensibly opposed interests \u2013 watching itself like a red-tailed hawk.Fun fact: Right now Canada's choosing a national bird. Some nominate the chilly blue jay. Some put forward the aforementioned elusive hawk. My husband's a birder. \"There, over there! By the cloud. It's flying over you right now. It just shit on your head. Are you blind?\"Me, I nominate the common sparrow. It's brownish and mouse-like, a worthy bird that will never have the nerve to form a coalition with a more glamorous creature, a crazy salad hawk with a duller meat for company.Truly, I am down on my hung Canada right now.But you, Britain at your greatest, you have a chance to fashion a government humming with energy and freshness, like a warm egg. Lay it now.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Hung parliament", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Try to ignore Canada, Britain | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-06-27T18:36:57Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It is ironic to hear Brits bemoaning the possible sale of their one rather dishy fast railway track \u2013 High Speed One from St Pancras International to the Channel Tunnel \u2013 to a bunch of retired Canadian teachers. It's too late for Britain now. Any society that would allow the sale of its phone, electricity, gas and water to private companies, particularly foreigners, decades ago and then complain about losing Cadbury chocolates... well, your values are skewed.So are Canadian values, which is where the irony comes in. We'd love it if our teachers bought a high-speed rail line from us. If we had one to sell, which we don't.There may not be a nation in the world that needs high-speed trains more than Canada does. We're a big country, with long, boring highways between our lonely cities sustained by a restricted oil supply extracted at hideous environmental cost from the tar sands of Alberta. Compared to us, why do Brits even need a train \u00e0 grande vitesse on that 67-mile route? But our hard-right government opposes ambitious infrastructure projects. They reek of the future, and prime minister Stephen Harper hates the future, his aim being to return Canada to a notional past. He also sees train projects as \"big government\", which your David Cameron similarly hates. And here is where I do mourn for both our nations.The Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan is huge and powerful. The compounded savings of a sturdy unionised group of 289,000 teachers, run by a pleasant grey-faced man named Jim, are worth C$96.4bn (\u00a362bn). To you, it's just another foreign monolith that keeps buying things dear to your heart. To me it is, quite literally, my youth. It is my Miss Jean Brodie, but in a nice way: Miss Batty's class in English literature and Mr Butcher's class on Canadian history (which is mainly about railways). The money you may have to hand over to them when you race to the Chunnel is keeping my beloved teachers of yore in bacon and Manitoba minks (our name for puffy down coats) to this very day.The attempt to purchase the 30-year concession for the High Speed One route is part of a trend. Teachers, a solid, practical bunch of no-risk managers, is getting the hell out of Canadian investments because they don't see them as good for the long term. Sixty years from now Teachers will have to buy total-body joint replacements for the young people now about to finish their first year of teaching. Apparently, it has more faith in Brits eternally buying lottery tickets (it owns your Camelot) than in, say, Canada ever building a desperately desired high-speed train between Montreal and Toronto.We want Teachers; they don't want us. They want you but you don't want them, and rightly so. The Guardian reports that any new owner may dump its current maintenance contract with Network Rail. Why should they be allowed to fire workers whose executives just got huge bonuses? And what kind of country would divide its treasured rail network in two \u2013 one bit owning the trains and the other owning the track \u2013 and then sell it off in the first place? That's crazy.I just finished reading Matthew Engel's entrancingly squalid history of British rail, Eleven Minutes Late: A Train Journey to the Soul of Britain, in which he describes the sheer awfulness of train travel that followed privatisation: the crowds, noise, delays, the crimes against food, the air of interpersonal hatred. The book climaxes with the author's encounter with a surly staffer on the route from Euston to Glasgow. \"Have a bacon roll, you cunt,\" the man told him.My husband travelled from Montreal to Toronto yesterday by train. It was a dreary six-hour ride delayed by an earthquake between the two cities. Via Rail, as the hated company is called, halted its trains to see if any rails had shifted. Some might call this prudent. But I doubt that Japan, one of the most earthquake-prone landscapes in the world, shuts down its bullet trains every time the coffee cups tremble.I oppose the sale of national essentials to foreigners hot for profit. Teachers is simply another heartless multinational with a benign face, which is what you'll think when your Slow Speed One train gently chugs along making little steam-engine noises. But judging by that train wreck of a Tory budget, you'll never be able to afford a ticket anyway. We are all hobos now.", "tags": ["Channel Tunnel", "Canada", "Rail travel", "World news", "Privatisation", "UK news", "Rail transport", "Americas"], "title": "Canada needs its own high-speed rail, not the UK's | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-06-09T11:28:38Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A few years ago I moved to the United Kingdom from the Canadian prairies. This was a luxury I was afforded via two grandparents who were born in Britain, ensuring my access to the elusive ancestry visa.Many Canadians still feel a greater allegiance to our colonial British roots than to our neighbours to the south; the monarchy is still represented on our money and most Canadians are well versed in singing God Save the Queen. We even toast Her Majesty at most fancy public events.Despite these and other symbols of allegiance, however, Canadians continue to hold on to some ambivalence over our British roots through our generally inconsistent use of language. While gazing at our commemorative Princess Diana spoons and watching the Queen's Christmas Message every December, we are still uncommitted when it comes to our geopolitical allegiance to language. Just as we often straddle international conflicts by playing the peacekeeper, most Canadians sit on the fence, moving interchangeably between American and British spellings. If there's anything notable about our use of language, it's that we are pretty lackadaisical about it.Before the American Revolution, everyone in North America was formally governed by the United Kingdom, except for a region in eastern Canada that was held by France. Following America's independence, there was a movement towards differentiating its unique culture from that of Britain. This was a major inspiration for Noah Webster, the man behind the dictionary that decisively set out a new order in American spelling and style. Some of the most noticeable differences Webster introduced to the language include the replacement of words ending in \u2013our in Britain (honour, favour) with the American spelling of \u2013or (color, harbor); and his replacement of \u2013ise word endings (capitalise, familiarise) with the American usage of \u2013ize (dramatize, visualize). His most comprehensive dictionary, An American Dictionary of the English Language, also contained 12,000 new words native to America.If politics propelled Webster to adapt the English language as one way of carving out a unique American identity, why do Canadians tend to treat linguistic choices with such ambivalence?The question doesn't have a simple answer. Though Canada is still part of the Commonwealth, our unique history of colonisation and the sheer geographic range of the country make the enforcement of consistent language rules difficult from coast to coast. Just as the United Kingdom has a variety of dialects, accents and even native languages, Canada has the languages of its aboriginal peoples, our physical proximity to the United States and a strong history of French culture as a result of a long occupation by France. Though our love affair with the United Kingdom continues, our language is surprisingly fluid, reflecting, perhaps, our comparative youth as a nation and our typical international position as mediator.Recently I was asked to write a comprehensive style guide for a UK-based company. The grammar nerd in me loved the task, yet I was surprised to find that even in Britain, where English language conventions are sacrosanct, there is still a great deal of flexibility in style. Beyond the basic rules of proper use, there is a great sphere of ambiguity.Decisions about language are actually very politically charged and the impact of embracing, rejecting or creating new conventions should not be underestimated. Webster's dictionary changed the culture of America. As a Canadian living in London I have felt my own relationship with culture change as I adapt my flighty linguistic allegiances to better align with those of my new country of residence.Amy Thibodeau is a freelance writer, photographer and content strategist based in London. You can find her on twitter at http://twitter.com/amythibodeau", "tags": ["Language", "Media", "Science", "Canada", "World news", "US news", "Americas", "Written language"], "title": "Canada \u2013 a linguistic battleground between the US and Britain | Mind your language"},{"date": "2010-06-17T10:30:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "At a time when many countries are becoming more critical of Israel's policies, Canada seems to be moving in the opposite direction. A general reluctance to engage in open debate about the Palestinian issue is exacerbated by pro-Israel groups' efforts to shut down discussion and the federal government's unprecedented penchant for defending Israeli actions.Since the beginning of 2010, the federal government has systematically cut funding to Arab-Canadian organisations and to UN relief works in Gaza. In March, the Ontario provincial legislature issued a unanimous condemnation of Israeli Apartheid Week, while the federal government considered introducing a similar motion.However, self-censorship reached new heights last month when Toronto's Pride Committee \u2013 which organises one of the world's largest gay pride celebrations \u2013 announced it would be banning use of the term \"Israeli apartheid\" at the festivities.Pride week in Toronto is a loud and highly visible public event, with a long tradition of activists linking their own campaigns for sexual rights to other struggles for liberation and social justice; however, this year the organisers caved in to pressure from pro-Israel groups and Toronto city council.The main effect of the decision is to bar one group in particular \u2013 Queers Against Israeli Apartheid (QuAIA) \u2013 who have marched in the parade since 2008.The reason given is that the phrase \"Israeli apartheid\" violates Toronto's anti-discrimination policy. But when asked, neither Pride Toronto nor Giorgio Mammoliti \u2013 the Toronto city councillor mainly involved \u2013 could explain in detail what was discriminatory about describing Israel's privileging of its Jewish citizens over others as a form or racism and apartheid.\"It's absolutely bizarre the way they are trying to use the language around diversity and inclusiveness to exclude people,\" QuAIA activist Tim McCaskell told me. \"It was so 1984.\"Accompanying the onset of a Canadian McCarthyism dressed up as anti-discrimination, the mainstream left in Canada has been unwilling to take a clear political and moral stance on Palestine. Instead it has sought the approach of least resistance, trying to appease rather than take a stand against the silencing of Palestinian voices in Canada and Israel.Writing in NOW Magazine, a progressive Toronto weekly newspaper, news editor Ellie Kirzner contended that Palestinians and their supporters should simply drop the term \"apartheid\". \"It's a vulnerability the movement doesn't need,\" she wrote.McCaskell, on the other hand, says QuAIA is bringing the fight against Israeli apartheid to pride because that is what Palestinian LGBT organisations have requested, and because Israel tries to present itself as queer-tolerant in an attempt to distract from its ill-treatment of Palestinians.The two Palestinian LGBT groups, Aswat and al-Qaws (both based in Israel), issued a joint statement saying: \"Pride parades started as political marches, and we firmly believe that solidarity should be with human rights first and foremost.\" They continued:We believe that as queers, one of the most disadvantaged and oppressed minorities in human societies, we should protest against all forms of oppression and struggle together to promote the rights of minorities and oppressed groups. As Palestinian queers, our struggle relates to social injustices caused by the discrimination that is deeply rooted in Israel's policies and practices against the Palestinian people, straight and gay alike ...Over the past decades, Pride parades around the world have been a platform for queers, not only to increase public awareness for [LGBT] rights, but also a platform to promote and defend causes like the feminist struggle, and the fight to end apartheid in South Africa.Trying to smother this debate in relation to Israel at Toronto pride could easily backfire, according to Ayala Shani, a queer activist with the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign. She points out that banning a term will only multiply its use and adds: \"We are expecting to see 'Israeli apartheid' written and spoken all over pride parades around the world, including a parade in Tel Aviv.\"However, with the Canadian mainstream left dodging defence of Palestinians and the country at large continuing its polite silence on the Middle East, Toronto's establishment may be taking more pride in silencing discussion of Israeli apartheid than even Tel Aviv.\u2022 Comments on this article will remain open for 24 hours from the time of publication but may be closed overnight", "tags": ["Canada", "LGBT rights", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: Israel's new defender | Jesse Rosenfeld"},{"date": "2010-06-08T23:06:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Please accept this plea from Canada to avoid the excesses of a \"Canadian-style star chamber\" (Cameron: cuts 'will change British life', 7 June). In the 1990s, Canada's federal government was gripped by a zealous enthusiasm for spending cuts that resulted in billions of dollars cut mainly from health, education, housing and other social spending.Canada's much-heralded national housing programme was dismantled in the Liberals' 1996 federal budget. The Liberal leader of today, Michael Ignatieff, has publicly apologised for the excessive housing cuts of his predecessors, and other Liberal politicians of the day have mused, publicly and privately, that the cuts of the 1990s went too deep.In its 2008 report Growing Unequal, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development noted that while Canada did better than the rest of the OECD in cutting poverty and income inequality from 1985 to 1995, we fell behind the OECD in the decade starting in 1995.The fevered political atmosphere and deficit mania of the 1990s led Canada's federal government to make drastic cuts in programmes that have had a deep impact on the quality of life for all Canadians. The lesson from the \"Canadian-style star chamber\" of the 1990s is that it is brutally easy to make swingeing cuts to public social expenditures, but that those cuts have deep and long-term consequences for people, communities, the entire society and the economy.Michael ShapcottDirector, affordable housing and social innovation, Wellesley Institute\u2022\u2008Let me just make sure I've got this right. First of all, a bunch of bankers lose unimaginable amounts of our money by making bets on a bunch of dodgy mortgages. Eventually the banks realise the bets are based on worthless assets, and that technically they are bankrupt.The government bails them out with billions of pounds, transferring the debt to the public sector. The bankers, full of gratitude, pay themselves multimillion-pound bonuses which they invest in such a way as to pay as little tax as possible.We express our anger by voting out the government and replacing it with a new one, which promptly blames the debt on the profligate spending of its predecessor, and tells us that the only solution is to cut public services. Civil servants lose their jobs, unemployment rises, libraries are closed, support services for the very poor, the dispossessed and the desperate disappear. Those who caused this mess in the first place get away with it, and are probably already planning the next disaster.Are we really that gullible?Matt NicholsonBristol\u2022\u2008Tax versus expenditure remains an ideological as well as an economic question that each generation needs to ask itself anew. Do we tax more (affecting the richest in society more) or spend less (hurting the poorest in society more)? So far, nobody is openly addressing this issue, beyond mooting small increases in VAT and an increase in tax on certain speculative forms of wealth generation. If the relative merits of cutting spending and raising taxes are not publicly discussed soon, those on the economic-liberal right will be able to continue gleefully dressing up their ideologies as economic necessity. The bigger question of what kind of a society we want will thus have been answered without even being asked.Dr Richard MisekUniversity of Bristol\u2022\u2008Julian Glover rightly identifies the Labour government's financial backing for Sheffield Forgemasters as an example of the activist industrial policy it developed in response to the recession (Comment, 7 June). But it was not the only example. The last government was also supporting the development of offshore wind turbine manufacturing, through finance for innovation and improvements to port facilities. As a result, four global turbine manufacturers had announced intentions to set up plants here. Similar policies led Nissan to announce the manufacture of Europe's first mass-produced electric car in Sunderland, with the first battery plant next door. Labour understood that the new low-carbon industries can be vital engines of jobs and growth, but they need support. As it reviews the last government's spending commitments, does the new coalition get it?Michael JacobsSpecial adviser to Gordon Brown, 2004-10", "tags": ["Public sector cuts", "Public finance", "Society", "Economic policy", "Tax and spending", "David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Liberal-Conservative coalition", "UK news", "Canada", "World news", "Michael Ignatieff", "Nissan", "Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Green economy", "Wind power", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Letters: Canada, cuts and communities"},{"date": "2010-06-01T12:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "An interesting statistic was released last week in Canada: According to the Sex Information and Education Council, the nation's teenage birth and abortion rate fell 36.9% between 1996 and 2006. The lead researcher of the report, Alexander McKay, told the Globe and Mail that the decline reflected Canada's attitude toward the issue \u2013 that the more societies have an \"accepting attitude\" to teenage pregnancy, the less of it one finds. As for abortion, McKay said: \"It's not that young women are viewing abortion as a form of birth control. Rather they do view it as an acceptable \u2013 although regrettable \u2013 way of dealing with an unwanted pregnancy when it occurs.\"As the host government for the upcoming G8 and G20 meetings near the end of June in Ontario, Stephen Harper's Conservative party has planned to make funding for maternal health in developing nations a priority topic. However, that discussion will take place with the knowledge that Canada's financial contribution to family planning programmes will not include funding for abortions. That is to say, the Tories are not about to allow women from developing nations the same kind choice that women in Canada have. Why not?In late April, when he was asked how the federal Liberal party might try to shake itself from its current stagnant position in the polls, Ekos Research pollster Frank Graves made some interesting remarks to Lawrence Martin of the Globe and Mail. Graves said that he'd told the Liberals to:\"Invoke a culture war. Cosmopolitanism versus parochialism, secularism versus moralism, Obama versus Palin, tolerance versus racism and homophobia, democracy versus autocracy. If the cranky old men in Alberta don't like it, too bad. Go south and vote for Palin.\"The cranky (not so old) men didn't like it. Graves appeared on the CBC's Power & Politics to explain his quote and debated with former Tory spokesman Kory Teneycke, who called his comments \"offensive\". A brief national media debate followed, centered on the notion of a Canadian \"culture war\" \u2013 one that might pit Canuck versus Canuck on the nation's ideological battleground \u2013 as if it were an unheard-of possibility.The thing is, Graves's comments, while somewhat incendiary, trampled upon a silent rift in Canadian society \u2013 one that Harper is currently exploiting: the rise of social conservatism in a nation that has historically viewed itself as socially progressive.Harper's life is no stranger to the influence of faith-based social conservatism and the perceived threat of moral relativism. After all, his political career began under the watch of the \"Calgary School\" as an early adviser to the now-defunct Reform party that was born in the University of Calgary's political science department. His direct mentor in those early years was Preston Manning, founder of the Reform party and son of former Alberta premier and evangelical radio host (simultaneously), Ernest Manning.In 2003, when Harper was still the leader of the Canadian Alliance party (a successor to the Reform party), he gave a speech to British thinktank Civitas. He said:\"Rebalancing the conservative agenda will require careful political judgment. First, the issues must be chosen carefully. For example, the social conservative issues we choose should not be denominational, but should unite social conservatives of different denominations and even different faiths.\"For the most part, Harper's successive minority governments have followed this train of thought. Some have alleged that Harper, who \"found\" religion while in Calgary, is at the heart of a national cabal of evangelicals pushing to reinstate Canada as a Christian nation that must fulfill its destiny as laid out in its national motto (\"He shall have dominion also from sea to sea,\" from Psalm 72:8-9) before the End Times. But the fact is that he is probably much more cerebral, critical, and calculating than that.To that effect, many of Harper's more contentious social policy moves have been designed to evoke conservative morality rather than religiosity. Whether it has been the party's stance on youth crime, raising the age of sexual consent, or its persistent attempts to close Vancouver's safe drug injection programme, Insite, the Harper government has a record of presenting Canadians not with specifically faith-based policy, but moral wedge issues.What this means for the average Canadian is that, slowly but surely, the Conservative party is changing the framework of the national debate. Harper's Tories are picking their issues carefully, and appealing to those centre-right voters who have historically sided with the Liberals. The culture war that Graves alluded to is effectively already under way: the progressive Canada that dominated the latter half of the 20th century \u2013 the one that legalised the pill, sodomy, abortion, and gay marriage \u2013 is changing, buried incrementally by calculated socially conservative policies.While the press debated Graves's comments, the question on maternal health funding was playing out in parliament. The opposition Liberals half-heartedly pressed the Tories on the abortion funding, but so lax was their willingness to debate the issue, Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff's motion on the topic died thanks to the absence of 13 of his own party members. This was partly due to party disorganisation, but it implies an unwillingness to engage in the debate.Since his government's decision not to fund legal abortions overseas, Harper has been adamant that he had no desire to re-open the debate on abortions in Canada, saying he would \"oppose\" such a move. In doing so, Harper has steered clear of a faith-based domestic political landmine, relegating it to the realm of foreign policy, and effectively out of the minds of most Canadians. At the same time, he has given the suggestion of landing on the righteous side of a religiously charged debate, while keeping himself at arm's length. This way, Harper doesn't alienate himself from the average Canadian \u2013 particularly the centre-right voters. It is a repeated, adept, but not at all secretive, pattern of finding and exploiting those secular issues that strike at the heart of a silently religious nation.It all means that the decision not to allow funding for safe abortions in developing nations most likely has very little to do with the security and health of the approximately 70,000 women who die annually during unsafe ones. Instead, it has everything to do with the Conservative party's own domestic political gains, and pandering to a lucrative \u2013 and growing \u2013 conservative base. It's decidedly cynical, but it seems to have worked. A recent poll found that, though 58% of Canadians said they were against the government's decision, it was those in favour of the move who held the biggest ever pro-life rally on Parliament Hill to celebrate it.", "tags": ["Canada", "Abortion", "World news", "Women", "Life and style", "Maternal health", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Progressive Canada is slipping away | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2010-05-08T09:57:11Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hallelujah and about time too, Britain. Make that Great Britain. For what makes Britain great? You use your words, that's what.Right now, Canada sucks, and all because we have a hung Parliament and no one's done anything about it for years. We are ruled by Stephen Harper, a hard-right hick with a grudge who after serial elections cannot get a clear mandate from the voters.When you have a hung Parliament, you try to form coalitions. We have formed none. We remain hanging, like a dry-aged haunch of venison out back of the garage. Our MPs hurl figurative faeces at each other in the House of Commons and then go to monkey sleep under their minute Parliamentary desks, dreaming of democracy.I don't know if \"use your words\" is a common phrase in your country. Here, Canadian toddlers are regularly told this, a tactful New Age parent way of saying \"Stop hitting your little friend, you tiny nasty animal. Negotiate. Share your toys. Find a way.\"This is what Cameron and Clegg and the tragic Brown are doing as you read this, exchanging blizzards of eloquent Eton/Westminster School/Kirkcaldy High School\u2013taught words in order to make a nation-saving deal. Negotiation, blasts of words, a strategic ellipsis, then emollient phrases followed by the steely bits on reform of first-past-the-post and a hint of bending on immigration and, I would hope, no cuts to the BBC. It's real talk.Oh, there's nothing better than a hung parliament to give things a kick-start. I notice that faux-commiserating Americans get stuck on the word \"hung\" which to them either means death by hanging or, and I'm sorry to report this, a guy with a frontload of taint, with an inbuilt asset, if you get my drift and it's just as well if you don't.Also, Americans can't do the math. They are a simple people with a matching approach to life \u2013 win or lose \u2013 which is why they're now saying, \"Hey, your political system is as screwed as ours.\"I loved your TV debates, Great Britain. The BBC won on set design and then lost on election night with some kind of barge full of people like Joan Collins and Andrew Neil, and to my shrieking horror, was that Armando Iannucci smiling gently and taking notes?Excellent campaigning. If only our hateful pseudo-human prime minister would meet a nice granny in Kamloops and hurt her feelings. Actually, Harper would knee her in the groin and block her hip replacement, he's that personal in his hates.Canada has a Conservative minority government right now that does have a core belief. It's that Canadians deserve a good stomping, all of them. Conservatives can't stand people, particularly if they're female, or second-generation Canadian, or educated, or principled, or not from Alberta, which is the home of the hard-right belly-bulging middle-aged Tory male. Watch them at the G8, ostensibly fighting for women's health internationally while blocking abortions for raped Congolese.Harper cannot get a real majority. If the centre-right Liberals and the centre-left New Democrats would form a coalition, Harper would be toast and we'd get started on what we need: national day care, TGV trains, an economic strategy, a green strategy, oh a strategy for anything, a plan is all we seek.Instead we hang. How typical of Brown to say this will drag on, while Cameron says it must be quick. Brits want change, they want action, especially as the EU rots at the economic edges. Nothing will give them this faster than a coalition government \u2013 ideally a Lib Dem-Conservative one of ostensibly opposed interests \u2013 watching itself like a red-tailed hawk.Fun fact: Right now Canada's choosing a national bird. Some nominate the chilly blue jay. Some put forward the aforementioned elusive hawk. My husband's a birder. \"There, over there! By the cloud. It's flying over you right now. It just shit on your head. Are you blind?\"Me, I nominate the common sparrow. It's brownish and mouse-like, a worthy bird that will never have the nerve to form a coalition with a more glamorous creature, a crazy salad hawk with a duller meat for company.Truly, I am down on my hung Canada right now.But you, Britain at your greatest, you have a chance to fashion a government humming with energy and freshness, like a warm egg. Lay it now.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Hung parliament", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Try to ignore Canada, Britain | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-06-27T18:36:57Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It is ironic to hear Brits bemoaning the possible sale of their one rather dishy fast railway track \u2013 High Speed One from St Pancras International to the Channel Tunnel \u2013 to a bunch of retired Canadian teachers. It's too late for Britain now. Any society that would allow the sale of its phone, electricity, gas and water to private companies, particularly foreigners, decades ago and then complain about losing Cadbury chocolates... well, your values are skewed.So are Canadian values, which is where the irony comes in. We'd love it if our teachers bought a high-speed rail line from us. If we had one to sell, which we don't.There may not be a nation in the world that needs high-speed trains more than Canada does. We're a big country, with long, boring highways between our lonely cities sustained by a restricted oil supply extracted at hideous environmental cost from the tar sands of Alberta. Compared to us, why do Brits even need a train \u00e0 grande vitesse on that 67-mile route? But our hard-right government opposes ambitious infrastructure projects. They reek of the future, and prime minister Stephen Harper hates the future, his aim being to return Canada to a notional past. He also sees train projects as \"big government\", which your David Cameron similarly hates. And here is where I do mourn for both our nations.The Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan is huge and powerful. The compounded savings of a sturdy unionised group of 289,000 teachers, run by a pleasant grey-faced man named Jim, are worth C$96.4bn (\u00a362bn). To you, it's just another foreign monolith that keeps buying things dear to your heart. To me it is, quite literally, my youth. It is my Miss Jean Brodie, but in a nice way: Miss Batty's class in English literature and Mr Butcher's class on Canadian history (which is mainly about railways). The money you may have to hand over to them when you race to the Chunnel is keeping my beloved teachers of yore in bacon and Manitoba minks (our name for puffy down coats) to this very day.The attempt to purchase the 30-year concession for the High Speed One route is part of a trend. Teachers, a solid, practical bunch of no-risk managers, is getting the hell out of Canadian investments because they don't see them as good for the long term. Sixty years from now Teachers will have to buy total-body joint replacements for the young people now about to finish their first year of teaching. Apparently, it has more faith in Brits eternally buying lottery tickets (it owns your Camelot) than in, say, Canada ever building a desperately desired high-speed train between Montreal and Toronto.We want Teachers; they don't want us. They want you but you don't want them, and rightly so. The Guardian reports that any new owner may dump its current maintenance contract with Network Rail. Why should they be allowed to fire workers whose executives just got huge bonuses? And what kind of country would divide its treasured rail network in two \u2013 one bit owning the trains and the other owning the track \u2013 and then sell it off in the first place? That's crazy.I just finished reading Matthew Engel's entrancingly squalid history of British rail, Eleven Minutes Late: A Train Journey to the Soul of Britain, in which he describes the sheer awfulness of train travel that followed privatisation: the crowds, noise, delays, the crimes against food, the air of interpersonal hatred. The book climaxes with the author's encounter with a surly staffer on the route from Euston to Glasgow. \"Have a bacon roll, you cunt,\" the man told him.My husband travelled from Montreal to Toronto yesterday by train. It was a dreary six-hour ride delayed by an earthquake between the two cities. Via Rail, as the hated company is called, halted its trains to see if any rails had shifted. Some might call this prudent. But I doubt that Japan, one of the most earthquake-prone landscapes in the world, shuts down its bullet trains every time the coffee cups tremble.I oppose the sale of national essentials to foreigners hot for profit. Teachers is simply another heartless multinational with a benign face, which is what you'll think when your Slow Speed One train gently chugs along making little steam-engine noises. But judging by that train wreck of a Tory budget, you'll never be able to afford a ticket anyway. We are all hobos now.", "tags": ["Channel Tunnel", "Canada", "Rail travel", "World news", "Privatisation", "UK news", "Rail transport", "Americas"], "title": "Canada needs its own high-speed rail, not the UK's | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-06-09T11:28:38Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A few years ago I moved to the United Kingdom from the Canadian prairies. This was a luxury I was afforded via two grandparents who were born in Britain, ensuring my access to the elusive ancestry visa.Many Canadians still feel a greater allegiance to our colonial British roots than to our neighbours to the south; the monarchy is still represented on our money and most Canadians are well versed in singing God Save the Queen. We even toast Her Majesty at most fancy public events.Despite these and other symbols of allegiance, however, Canadians continue to hold on to some ambivalence over our British roots through our generally inconsistent use of language. While gazing at our commemorative Princess Diana spoons and watching the Queen's Christmas Message every December, we are still uncommitted when it comes to our geopolitical allegiance to language. Just as we often straddle international conflicts by playing the peacekeeper, most Canadians sit on the fence, moving interchangeably between American and British spellings. If there's anything notable about our use of language, it's that we are pretty lackadaisical about it.Before the American Revolution, everyone in North America was formally governed by the United Kingdom, except for a region in eastern Canada that was held by France. Following America's independence, there was a movement towards differentiating its unique culture from that of Britain. This was a major inspiration for Noah Webster, the man behind the dictionary that decisively set out a new order in American spelling and style. Some of the most noticeable differences Webster introduced to the language include the replacement of words ending in \u2013our in Britain (honour, favour) with the American spelling of \u2013or (color, harbor); and his replacement of \u2013ise word endings (capitalise, familiarise) with the American usage of \u2013ize (dramatize, visualize). His most comprehensive dictionary, An American Dictionary of the English Language, also contained 12,000 new words native to America.If politics propelled Webster to adapt the English language as one way of carving out a unique American identity, why do Canadians tend to treat linguistic choices with such ambivalence?The question doesn't have a simple answer. Though Canada is still part of the Commonwealth, our unique history of colonisation and the sheer geographic range of the country make the enforcement of consistent language rules difficult from coast to coast. Just as the United Kingdom has a variety of dialects, accents and even native languages, Canada has the languages of its aboriginal peoples, our physical proximity to the United States and a strong history of French culture as a result of a long occupation by France. Though our love affair with the United Kingdom continues, our language is surprisingly fluid, reflecting, perhaps, our comparative youth as a nation and our typical international position as mediator.Recently I was asked to write a comprehensive style guide for a UK-based company. The grammar nerd in me loved the task, yet I was surprised to find that even in Britain, where English language conventions are sacrosanct, there is still a great deal of flexibility in style. Beyond the basic rules of proper use, there is a great sphere of ambiguity.Decisions about language are actually very politically charged and the impact of embracing, rejecting or creating new conventions should not be underestimated. Webster's dictionary changed the culture of America. As a Canadian living in London I have felt my own relationship with culture change as I adapt my flighty linguistic allegiances to better align with those of my new country of residence.Amy Thibodeau is a freelance writer, photographer and content strategist based in London. You can find her on twitter at http://twitter.com/amythibodeau", "tags": ["Language", "Media", "Science", "Canada", "World news", "US news", "Americas", "Written language"], "title": "Canada \u2013 a linguistic battleground between the US and Britain | Mind your language"},{"date": "2010-05-18T19:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Now is the morning after the night before. After all the election talk about \"identifying efficiency savings\" from Tories, Labour and Liberal Democrats alike, the politicians must come up with them. The outcome is to be announced next week by the new chancellor, George Osborne. It could set the tone of what may well be a short coalition parliament.Britain cannot pretend its heavy indebtedness can be ringfenced from the pressure building yet again across Europe. It must cut its deficit, or at least make a start, or at least show that it can make a start, on relieving a towering sum of some \u00a3163bn.There is no point in further name-calling and blaming. Labour claimed to have found \u00a312bn in \"efficiency savings\" before the election. The Tories, and now the Liberal Democrats, are committed to finding \u00a36bn more, allegedly \"achievable without hitting frontline services\". This means gouging cash out of Labour's much-abused bureaucratic overhead.But how much to cut, and how? The central Keynesian conundrum remains: how far should a government go in restoring market confidence \u2013 or rather in reducing the short-term cost of its debt \u2013 before it endangers a recovery that alone can relieve the debt in the longer term?This is the sort of question we were once told the economic modellers could solve with equations and computers. This has not proved the case. Economists have merely shown they can ask a better class of question.Every commentary that I have read on Osborne's predicament merely repeats the banality that he should be careful to avoid bankruptcy while not endangering recovery. It is like telling the helmsman to avoid both the rock and the hard place. Both the Liberal Democrats and the Bank of England governor profess to being converts to deeper cuts. But how deep?Osborne and his Treasury chief secretary, David Laws, must by now have some idea of the scale of cuts likely to calm the markets. They must have some idea of how much of the 2008/9 bank bailout can be repaid to the taxpayers, and how soon. They must have formed a view on how to phase spending cuts and tax rises over time, to encourage short-term demand while entrenching long-term discipline. These surely are tricks of their trade.Yet they have already made it harder for themselves by closing options and making mistakes. Osborne appears to have rejected the solution of fair pain for all, adopted by governments in Canada and Ireland. David Cameron cut ministerial salaries by 5% this year. It is hard to see why he has not done so across the entire public sector, perhaps reducing the cut progressively to 1% for the low paid.Such a \"nuclear option\", which could have realised \u00a34bn-5bn of his target right away, required no further argument. Fairness is a great salve to pain. As it is, the Treasury must do battle across every mile of departmental territory, with rearguard actions fought by ministers in every corner.Another mistake was to ringfence some budgets \u2013 notably health, education and overseas aid \u2013 but not others. This was Margaret Thatcher's error in 1979, blessing special interests either because she promised at the election or because she just liked them, such as defence and the police. It doubled the agony of \"Tory cuts\" on the rest.Any observer of Whitehall's health and education quangocracy will be astonished if it is let off lightly. Labour at one point declared that \u00a311bn could be found from health and \u00a35bn from education overheads \"without harming frontline services\". Let's see those savings now.Osborne has named a few fat pigs for slaughter, such as the ID-cards computer and Labour's lavish consultancy budget, but his meadow is still packed with sacred cows. Retaining Trident and the aircraft carrier fleet is mere great-power posturing. Pretending that glamorous computer projects would yield \"\u00a32bn\" more in savings is nonsense. If Osborne thinks a Whitehall computer ever saves money rather than spends it, he should name one. Computer projects to Labour ministers were like yachts to an oligarch, ostentatious eye candy.Other existing errors wait to be corrected. The government should liberate public institutions to manage their own business through recession. A deluge of abuse is about to erupt from the middle-class lobbies of higher education and the arts, which Labour turned into budgetary arms of central government. Not only are their pay and rations fixed centrally but their revenue is shackled. Universities should be freed to fix whatever fees they choose and museums to deal with their own entry arrangements. Osborne does not have to tell them what to do, merely stop telling them what not to do.Equally he should leave local government to take up some of the slack of the cuts \u2013 and thus some of the blame for them. Councils can be far more flexible than government in reordering priorities for spending on schools, clinics, roads and leisure. They can plug holes in the welfare state. They can absorb pain. But they cannot do so if their budgets are riddled with Treasury targets and controls, and their money-raising powers are curtailed. Cameron has cleverly built a coalition for cuts with others in parliament. He should build one with local government as well.The government has carefully rolled the political pitch for next week's cuts announcement, assisted by Liam Byrne's bizarre \"no money left\" epilogue on his own time at the Treasury. It can rightly blame Labour for the mess, but as of next week it must accept the mandate it was given by the electorate \u2013 to clear up the mess.This is not a matter of ideology. Nobody at the recent election wanted to see public services reduced or the recovery damaged. Britain has no need of Athenian riots in the streets to teach us budgetary management. The jobs of thousands and the welfare of millions depend on it.Osborne and Cameron need to seek a wider deal than any yet seen \u2013 intellectual as much as political \u2013 on how best to fix the deficit while causing least harm to the recovery. It should be a matter of economic science rather than political argument. But if argument there must be, it should be for political grown-ups \u2013 a coalition of the willing and the unwilling alike.", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Public services policy", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Canada", "David Cameron", "George Osborne", "Ireland", "Local government", "David Laws", "Society", "Business", "Politics", "UK news", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "A coalition for cuts? Canada, not Thatcher, is the model | Simon Jenkins"},{"date": "2010-06-17T10:30:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "At a time when many countries are becoming more critical of Israel's policies, Canada seems to be moving in the opposite direction. A general reluctance to engage in open debate about the Palestinian issue is exacerbated by pro-Israel groups' efforts to shut down discussion and the federal government's unprecedented penchant for defending Israeli actions.Since the beginning of 2010, the federal government has systematically cut funding to Arab-Canadian organisations and to UN relief works in Gaza. In March, the Ontario provincial legislature issued a unanimous condemnation of Israeli Apartheid Week, while the federal government considered introducing a similar motion.However, self-censorship reached new heights last month when Toronto's Pride Committee \u2013 which organises one of the world's largest gay pride celebrations \u2013 announced it would be banning use of the term \"Israeli apartheid\" at the festivities.Pride week in Toronto is a loud and highly visible public event, with a long tradition of activists linking their own campaigns for sexual rights to other struggles for liberation and social justice; however, this year the organisers caved in to pressure from pro-Israel groups and Toronto city council.The main effect of the decision is to bar one group in particular \u2013 Queers Against Israeli Apartheid (QuAIA) \u2013 who have marched in the parade since 2008.The reason given is that the phrase \"Israeli apartheid\" violates Toronto's anti-discrimination policy. But when asked, neither Pride Toronto nor Giorgio Mammoliti \u2013 the Toronto city councillor mainly involved \u2013 could explain in detail what was discriminatory about describing Israel's privileging of its Jewish citizens over others as a form or racism and apartheid.\"It's absolutely bizarre the way they are trying to use the language around diversity and inclusiveness to exclude people,\" QuAIA activist Tim McCaskell told me. \"It was so 1984.\"Accompanying the onset of a Canadian McCarthyism dressed up as anti-discrimination, the mainstream left in Canada has been unwilling to take a clear political and moral stance on Palestine. Instead it has sought the approach of least resistance, trying to appease rather than take a stand against the silencing of Palestinian voices in Canada and Israel.Writing in NOW Magazine, a progressive Toronto weekly newspaper, news editor Ellie Kirzner contended that Palestinians and their supporters should simply drop the term \"apartheid\". \"It's a vulnerability the movement doesn't need,\" she wrote.McCaskell, on the other hand, says QuAIA is bringing the fight against Israeli apartheid to pride because that is what Palestinian LGBT organisations have requested, and because Israel tries to present itself as queer-tolerant in an attempt to distract from its ill-treatment of Palestinians.The two Palestinian LGBT groups, Aswat and al-Qaws (both based in Israel), issued a joint statement saying: \"Pride parades started as political marches, and we firmly believe that solidarity should be with human rights first and foremost.\" They continued:We believe that as queers, one of the most disadvantaged and oppressed minorities in human societies, we should protest against all forms of oppression and struggle together to promote the rights of minorities and oppressed groups. As Palestinian queers, our struggle relates to social injustices caused by the discrimination that is deeply rooted in Israel's policies and practices against the Palestinian people, straight and gay alike ...Over the past decades, Pride parades around the world have been a platform for queers, not only to increase public awareness for [LGBT] rights, but also a platform to promote and defend causes like the feminist struggle, and the fight to end apartheid in South Africa.Trying to smother this debate in relation to Israel at Toronto pride could easily backfire, according to Ayala Shani, a queer activist with the Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions campaign. She points out that banning a term will only multiply its use and adds: \"We are expecting to see 'Israeli apartheid' written and spoken all over pride parades around the world, including a parade in Tel Aviv.\"However, with the Canadian mainstream left dodging defence of Palestinians and the country at large continuing its polite silence on the Middle East, Toronto's establishment may be taking more pride in silencing discussion of Israeli apartheid than even Tel Aviv.\u2022 Comments on this article will remain open for 24 hours from the time of publication but may be closed overnight", "tags": ["Canada", "LGBT rights", "Israel", "Palestinian territories", "Middle East and North Africa", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: Israel's new defender | Jesse Rosenfeld"},{"date": "2010-06-08T23:06:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Please accept this plea from Canada to avoid the excesses of a \"Canadian-style star chamber\" (Cameron: cuts 'will change British life', 7 June). In the 1990s, Canada's federal government was gripped by a zealous enthusiasm for spending cuts that resulted in billions of dollars cut mainly from health, education, housing and other social spending.Canada's much-heralded national housing programme was dismantled in the Liberals' 1996 federal budget. The Liberal leader of today, Michael Ignatieff, has publicly apologised for the excessive housing cuts of his predecessors, and other Liberal politicians of the day have mused, publicly and privately, that the cuts of the 1990s went too deep.In its 2008 report Growing Unequal, the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development noted that while Canada did better than the rest of the OECD in cutting poverty and income inequality from 1985 to 1995, we fell behind the OECD in the decade starting in 1995.The fevered political atmosphere and deficit mania of the 1990s led Canada's federal government to make drastic cuts in programmes that have had a deep impact on the quality of life for all Canadians. The lesson from the \"Canadian-style star chamber\" of the 1990s is that it is brutally easy to make swingeing cuts to public social expenditures, but that those cuts have deep and long-term consequences for people, communities, the entire society and the economy.Michael ShapcottDirector, affordable housing and social innovation, Wellesley Institute\u2022\u2008Let me just make sure I've got this right. First of all, a bunch of bankers lose unimaginable amounts of our money by making bets on a bunch of dodgy mortgages. Eventually the banks realise the bets are based on worthless assets, and that technically they are bankrupt.The government bails them out with billions of pounds, transferring the debt to the public sector. The bankers, full of gratitude, pay themselves multimillion-pound bonuses which they invest in such a way as to pay as little tax as possible.We express our anger by voting out the government and replacing it with a new one, which promptly blames the debt on the profligate spending of its predecessor, and tells us that the only solution is to cut public services. Civil servants lose their jobs, unemployment rises, libraries are closed, support services for the very poor, the dispossessed and the desperate disappear. Those who caused this mess in the first place get away with it, and are probably already planning the next disaster.Are we really that gullible?Matt NicholsonBristol\u2022\u2008Tax versus expenditure remains an ideological as well as an economic question that each generation needs to ask itself anew. Do we tax more (affecting the richest in society more) or spend less (hurting the poorest in society more)? So far, nobody is openly addressing this issue, beyond mooting small increases in VAT and an increase in tax on certain speculative forms of wealth generation. If the relative merits of cutting spending and raising taxes are not publicly discussed soon, those on the economic-liberal right will be able to continue gleefully dressing up their ideologies as economic necessity. The bigger question of what kind of a society we want will thus have been answered without even being asked.Dr Richard MisekUniversity of Bristol\u2022\u2008Julian Glover rightly identifies the Labour government's financial backing for Sheffield Forgemasters as an example of the activist industrial policy it developed in response to the recession (Comment, 7 June). But it was not the only example. The last government was also supporting the development of offshore wind turbine manufacturing, through finance for innovation and improvements to port facilities. As a result, four global turbine manufacturers had announced intentions to set up plants here. Similar policies led Nissan to announce the manufacture of Europe's first mass-produced electric car in Sunderland, with the first battery plant next door. Labour understood that the new low-carbon industries can be vital engines of jobs and growth, but they need support. As it reviews the last government's spending commitments, does the new coalition get it?Michael JacobsSpecial adviser to Gordon Brown, 2004-10", "tags": ["Public sector cuts", "Public finance", "Society", "Economic policy", "Tax and spending", "David Cameron", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Liberal-Conservative coalition", "UK news", "Canada", "World news", "Michael Ignatieff", "Nissan", "Manufacturing sector", "Business", "Green economy", "Wind power", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Letters: Canada, cuts and communities"},{"date": "2010-06-01T12:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "An interesting statistic was released last week in Canada: According to the Sex Information and Education Council, the nation's teenage birth and abortion rate fell 36.9% between 1996 and 2006. The lead researcher of the report, Alexander McKay, told the Globe and Mail that the decline reflected Canada's attitude toward the issue \u2013 that the more societies have an \"accepting attitude\" to teenage pregnancy, the less of it one finds. As for abortion, McKay said: \"It's not that young women are viewing abortion as a form of birth control. Rather they do view it as an acceptable \u2013 although regrettable \u2013 way of dealing with an unwanted pregnancy when it occurs.\"As the host government for the upcoming G8 and G20 meetings near the end of June in Ontario, Stephen Harper's Conservative party has planned to make funding for maternal health in developing nations a priority topic. However, that discussion will take place with the knowledge that Canada's financial contribution to family planning programmes will not include funding for abortions. That is to say, the Tories are not about to allow women from developing nations the same kind choice that women in Canada have. Why not?In late April, when he was asked how the federal Liberal party might try to shake itself from its current stagnant position in the polls, Ekos Research pollster Frank Graves made some interesting remarks to Lawrence Martin of the Globe and Mail. Graves said that he'd told the Liberals to:\"Invoke a culture war. Cosmopolitanism versus parochialism, secularism versus moralism, Obama versus Palin, tolerance versus racism and homophobia, democracy versus autocracy. If the cranky old men in Alberta don't like it, too bad. Go south and vote for Palin.\"The cranky (not so old) men didn't like it. Graves appeared on the CBC's Power & Politics to explain his quote and debated with former Tory spokesman Kory Teneycke, who called his comments \"offensive\". A brief national media debate followed, centered on the notion of a Canadian \"culture war\" \u2013 one that might pit Canuck versus Canuck on the nation's ideological battleground \u2013 as if it were an unheard-of possibility.The thing is, Graves's comments, while somewhat incendiary, trampled upon a silent rift in Canadian society \u2013 one that Harper is currently exploiting: the rise of social conservatism in a nation that has historically viewed itself as socially progressive.Harper's life is no stranger to the influence of faith-based social conservatism and the perceived threat of moral relativism. After all, his political career began under the watch of the \"Calgary School\" as an early adviser to the now-defunct Reform party that was born in the University of Calgary's political science department. His direct mentor in those early years was Preston Manning, founder of the Reform party and son of former Alberta premier and evangelical radio host (simultaneously), Ernest Manning.In 2003, when Harper was still the leader of the Canadian Alliance party (a successor to the Reform party), he gave a speech to British thinktank Civitas. He said:\"Rebalancing the conservative agenda will require careful political judgment. First, the issues must be chosen carefully. For example, the social conservative issues we choose should not be denominational, but should unite social conservatives of different denominations and even different faiths.\"For the most part, Harper's successive minority governments have followed this train of thought. Some have alleged that Harper, who \"found\" religion while in Calgary, is at the heart of a national cabal of evangelicals pushing to reinstate Canada as a Christian nation that must fulfill its destiny as laid out in its national motto (\"He shall have dominion also from sea to sea,\" from Psalm 72:8-9) before the End Times. But the fact is that he is probably much more cerebral, critical, and calculating than that.To that effect, many of Harper's more contentious social policy moves have been designed to evoke conservative morality rather than religiosity. Whether it has been the party's stance on youth crime, raising the age of sexual consent, or its persistent attempts to close Vancouver's safe drug injection programme, Insite, the Harper government has a record of presenting Canadians not with specifically faith-based policy, but moral wedge issues.What this means for the average Canadian is that, slowly but surely, the Conservative party is changing the framework of the national debate. Harper's Tories are picking their issues carefully, and appealing to those centre-right voters who have historically sided with the Liberals. The culture war that Graves alluded to is effectively already under way: the progressive Canada that dominated the latter half of the 20th century \u2013 the one that legalised the pill, sodomy, abortion, and gay marriage \u2013 is changing, buried incrementally by calculated socially conservative policies.While the press debated Graves's comments, the question on maternal health funding was playing out in parliament. The opposition Liberals half-heartedly pressed the Tories on the abortion funding, but so lax was their willingness to debate the issue, Liberal leader Michael Ignatieff's motion on the topic died thanks to the absence of 13 of his own party members. This was partly due to party disorganisation, but it implies an unwillingness to engage in the debate.Since his government's decision not to fund legal abortions overseas, Harper has been adamant that he had no desire to re-open the debate on abortions in Canada, saying he would \"oppose\" such a move. In doing so, Harper has steered clear of a faith-based domestic political landmine, relegating it to the realm of foreign policy, and effectively out of the minds of most Canadians. At the same time, he has given the suggestion of landing on the righteous side of a religiously charged debate, while keeping himself at arm's length. This way, Harper doesn't alienate himself from the average Canadian \u2013 particularly the centre-right voters. It is a repeated, adept, but not at all secretive, pattern of finding and exploiting those secular issues that strike at the heart of a silently religious nation.It all means that the decision not to allow funding for safe abortions in developing nations most likely has very little to do with the security and health of the approximately 70,000 women who die annually during unsafe ones. Instead, it has everything to do with the Conservative party's own domestic political gains, and pandering to a lucrative \u2013 and growing \u2013 conservative base. It's decidedly cynical, but it seems to have worked. A recent poll found that, though 58% of Canadians said they were against the government's decision, it was those in favour of the move who held the biggest ever pro-life rally on Parliament Hill to celebrate it.", "tags": ["Canada", "Abortion", "World news", "Women", "Life and style", "Maternal health", "Global development", "Americas"], "title": "Progressive Canada is slipping away | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2010-05-08T09:57:11Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hallelujah and about time too, Britain. Make that Great Britain. For what makes Britain great? You use your words, that's what.Right now, Canada sucks, and all because we have a hung Parliament and no one's done anything about it for years. We are ruled by Stephen Harper, a hard-right hick with a grudge who after serial elections cannot get a clear mandate from the voters.When you have a hung Parliament, you try to form coalitions. We have formed none. We remain hanging, like a dry-aged haunch of venison out back of the garage. Our MPs hurl figurative faeces at each other in the House of Commons and then go to monkey sleep under their minute Parliamentary desks, dreaming of democracy.I don't know if \"use your words\" is a common phrase in your country. Here, Canadian toddlers are regularly told this, a tactful New Age parent way of saying \"Stop hitting your little friend, you tiny nasty animal. Negotiate. Share your toys. Find a way.\"This is what Cameron and Clegg and the tragic Brown are doing as you read this, exchanging blizzards of eloquent Eton/Westminster School/Kirkcaldy High School\u2013taught words in order to make a nation-saving deal. Negotiation, blasts of words, a strategic ellipsis, then emollient phrases followed by the steely bits on reform of first-past-the-post and a hint of bending on immigration and, I would hope, no cuts to the BBC. It's real talk.Oh, there's nothing better than a hung parliament to give things a kick-start. I notice that faux-commiserating Americans get stuck on the word \"hung\" which to them either means death by hanging or, and I'm sorry to report this, a guy with a frontload of taint, with an inbuilt asset, if you get my drift and it's just as well if you don't.Also, Americans can't do the math. They are a simple people with a matching approach to life \u2013 win or lose \u2013 which is why they're now saying, \"Hey, your political system is as screwed as ours.\"I loved your TV debates, Great Britain. The BBC won on set design and then lost on election night with some kind of barge full of people like Joan Collins and Andrew Neil, and to my shrieking horror, was that Armando Iannucci smiling gently and taking notes?Excellent campaigning. If only our hateful pseudo-human prime minister would meet a nice granny in Kamloops and hurt her feelings. Actually, Harper would knee her in the groin and block her hip replacement, he's that personal in his hates.Canada has a Conservative minority government right now that does have a core belief. It's that Canadians deserve a good stomping, all of them. Conservatives can't stand people, particularly if they're female, or second-generation Canadian, or educated, or principled, or not from Alberta, which is the home of the hard-right belly-bulging middle-aged Tory male. Watch them at the G8, ostensibly fighting for women's health internationally while blocking abortions for raped Congolese.Harper cannot get a real majority. If the centre-right Liberals and the centre-left New Democrats would form a coalition, Harper would be toast and we'd get started on what we need: national day care, TGV trains, an economic strategy, a green strategy, oh a strategy for anything, a plan is all we seek.Instead we hang. How typical of Brown to say this will drag on, while Cameron says it must be quick. Brits want change, they want action, especially as the EU rots at the economic edges. Nothing will give them this faster than a coalition government \u2013 ideally a Lib Dem-Conservative one of ostensibly opposed interests \u2013 watching itself like a red-tailed hawk.Fun fact: Right now Canada's choosing a national bird. Some nominate the chilly blue jay. Some put forward the aforementioned elusive hawk. My husband's a birder. \"There, over there! By the cloud. It's flying over you right now. It just shit on your head. Are you blind?\"Me, I nominate the common sparrow. It's brownish and mouse-like, a worthy bird that will never have the nerve to form a coalition with a more glamorous creature, a crazy salad hawk with a duller meat for company.Truly, I am down on my hung Canada right now.But you, Britain at your greatest, you have a chance to fashion a government humming with energy and freshness, like a warm egg. Lay it now.", "tags": ["General election 2010", "Hung parliament", "Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Try to ignore Canada, Britain | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-06-27T18:36:57Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It is ironic to hear Brits bemoaning the possible sale of their one rather dishy fast railway track \u2013 High Speed One from St Pancras International to the Channel Tunnel \u2013 to a bunch of retired Canadian teachers. It's too late for Britain now. Any society that would allow the sale of its phone, electricity, gas and water to private companies, particularly foreigners, decades ago and then complain about losing Cadbury chocolates... well, your values are skewed.So are Canadian values, which is where the irony comes in. We'd love it if our teachers bought a high-speed rail line from us. If we had one to sell, which we don't.There may not be a nation in the world that needs high-speed trains more than Canada does. We're a big country, with long, boring highways between our lonely cities sustained by a restricted oil supply extracted at hideous environmental cost from the tar sands of Alberta. Compared to us, why do Brits even need a train \u00e0 grande vitesse on that 67-mile route? But our hard-right government opposes ambitious infrastructure projects. They reek of the future, and prime minister Stephen Harper hates the future, his aim being to return Canada to a notional past. He also sees train projects as \"big government\", which your David Cameron similarly hates. And here is where I do mourn for both our nations.The Ontario Teachers' Pension Plan is huge and powerful. The compounded savings of a sturdy unionised group of 289,000 teachers, run by a pleasant grey-faced man named Jim, are worth C$96.4bn (\u00a362bn). To you, it's just another foreign monolith that keeps buying things dear to your heart. To me it is, quite literally, my youth. It is my Miss Jean Brodie, but in a nice way: Miss Batty's class in English literature and Mr Butcher's class on Canadian history (which is mainly about railways). The money you may have to hand over to them when you race to the Chunnel is keeping my beloved teachers of yore in bacon and Manitoba minks (our name for puffy down coats) to this very day.The attempt to purchase the 30-year concession for the High Speed One route is part of a trend. Teachers, a solid, practical bunch of no-risk managers, is getting the hell out of Canadian investments because they don't see them as good for the long term. Sixty years from now Teachers will have to buy total-body joint replacements for the young people now about to finish their first year of teaching. Apparently, it has more faith in Brits eternally buying lottery tickets (it owns your Camelot) than in, say, Canada ever building a desperately desired high-speed train between Montreal and Toronto.We want Teachers; they don't want us. They want you but you don't want them, and rightly so. The Guardian reports that any new owner may dump its current maintenance contract with Network Rail. Why should they be allowed to fire workers whose executives just got huge bonuses? And what kind of country would divide its treasured rail network in two \u2013 one bit owning the trains and the other owning the track \u2013 and then sell it off in the first place? That's crazy.I just finished reading Matthew Engel's entrancingly squalid history of British rail, Eleven Minutes Late: A Train Journey to the Soul of Britain, in which he describes the sheer awfulness of train travel that followed privatisation: the crowds, noise, delays, the crimes against food, the air of interpersonal hatred. The book climaxes with the author's encounter with a surly staffer on the route from Euston to Glasgow. \"Have a bacon roll, you cunt,\" the man told him.My husband travelled from Montreal to Toronto yesterday by train. It was a dreary six-hour ride delayed by an earthquake between the two cities. Via Rail, as the hated company is called, halted its trains to see if any rails had shifted. Some might call this prudent. But I doubt that Japan, one of the most earthquake-prone landscapes in the world, shuts down its bullet trains every time the coffee cups tremble.I oppose the sale of national essentials to foreigners hot for profit. Teachers is simply another heartless multinational with a benign face, which is what you'll think when your Slow Speed One train gently chugs along making little steam-engine noises. But judging by that train wreck of a Tory budget, you'll never be able to afford a ticket anyway. We are all hobos now.", "tags": ["Channel Tunnel", "Canada", "Rail travel", "World news", "Privatisation", "UK news", "Rail transport", "Americas"], "title": "Canada needs its own high-speed rail, not the UK's | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2010-06-09T11:28:38Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A few years ago I moved to the United Kingdom from the Canadian prairies. This was a luxury I was afforded via two grandparents who were born in Britain, ensuring my access to the elusive ancestry visa.Many Canadians still feel a greater allegiance to our colonial British roots than to our neighbours to the south; the monarchy is still represented on our money and most Canadians are well versed in singing God Save the Queen. We even toast Her Majesty at most fancy public events.Despite these and other symbols of allegiance, however, Canadians continue to hold on to some ambivalence over our British roots through our generally inconsistent use of language. While gazing at our commemorative Princess Diana spoons and watching the Queen's Christmas Message every December, we are still uncommitted when it comes to our geopolitical allegiance to language. Just as we often straddle international conflicts by playing the peacekeeper, most Canadians sit on the fence, moving interchangeably between American and British spellings. If there's anything notable about our use of language, it's that we are pretty lackadaisical about it.Before the American Revolution, everyone in North America was formally governed by the United Kingdom, except for a region in eastern Canada that was held by France. Following America's independence, there was a movement towards differentiating its unique culture from that of Britain. This was a major inspiration for Noah Webster, the man behind the dictionary that decisively set out a new order in American spelling and style. Some of the most noticeable differences Webster introduced to the language include the replacement of words ending in \u2013our in Britain (honour, favour) with the American spelling of \u2013or (color, harbor); and his replacement of \u2013ise word endings (capitalise, familiarise) with the American usage of \u2013ize (dramatize, visualize). His most comprehensive dictionary, An American Dictionary of the English Language, also contained 12,000 new words native to America.If politics propelled Webster to adapt the English language as one way of carving out a unique American identity, why do Canadians tend to treat linguistic choices with such ambivalence?The question doesn't have a simple answer. Though Canada is still part of the Commonwealth, our unique history of colonisation and the sheer geographic range of the country make the enforcement of consistent language rules difficult from coast to coast. Just as the United Kingdom has a variety of dialects, accents and even native languages, Canada has the languages of its aboriginal peoples, our physical proximity to the United States and a strong history of French culture as a result of a long occupation by France. Though our love affair with the United Kingdom continues, our language is surprisingly fluid, reflecting, perhaps, our comparative youth as a nation and our typical international position as mediator.Recently I was asked to write a comprehensive style guide for a UK-based company. The grammar nerd in me loved the task, yet I was surprised to find that even in Britain, where English language conventions are sacrosanct, there is still a great deal of flexibility in style. Beyond the basic rules of proper use, there is a great sphere of ambiguity.Decisions about language are actually very politically charged and the impact of embracing, rejecting or creating new conventions should not be underestimated. Webster's dictionary changed the culture of America. As a Canadian living in London I have felt my own relationship with culture change as I adapt my flighty linguistic allegiances to better align with those of my new country of residence.Amy Thibodeau is a freelance writer, photographer and content strategist based in London. You can find her on twitter at http://twitter.com/amythibodeau", "tags": ["Language", "Media", "Science", "Canada", "World news", "US news", "Americas", "Written language"], "title": "Canada \u2013 a linguistic battleground between the US and Britain | Mind your language"},{"date": "2010-05-18T19:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Now is the morning after the night before. After all the election talk about \"identifying efficiency savings\" from Tories, Labour and Liberal Democrats alike, the politicians must come up with them. The outcome is to be announced next week by the new chancellor, George Osborne. It could set the tone of what may well be a short coalition parliament.Britain cannot pretend its heavy indebtedness can be ringfenced from the pressure building yet again across Europe. It must cut its deficit, or at least make a start, or at least show that it can make a start, on relieving a towering sum of some \u00a3163bn.There is no point in further name-calling and blaming. Labour claimed to have found \u00a312bn in \"efficiency savings\" before the election. The Tories, and now the Liberal Democrats, are committed to finding \u00a36bn more, allegedly \"achievable without hitting frontline services\". This means gouging cash out of Labour's much-abused bureaucratic overhead.But how much to cut, and how? The central Keynesian conundrum remains: how far should a government go in restoring market confidence \u2013 or rather in reducing the short-term cost of its debt \u2013 before it endangers a recovery that alone can relieve the debt in the longer term?This is the sort of question we were once told the economic modellers could solve with equations and computers. This has not proved the case. Economists have merely shown they can ask a better class of question.Every commentary that I have read on Osborne's predicament merely repeats the banality that he should be careful to avoid bankruptcy while not endangering recovery. It is like telling the helmsman to avoid both the rock and the hard place. Both the Liberal Democrats and the Bank of England governor profess to being converts to deeper cuts. But how deep?Osborne and his Treasury chief secretary, David Laws, must by now have some idea of the scale of cuts likely to calm the markets. They must have some idea of how much of the 2008/9 bank bailout can be repaid to the taxpayers, and how soon. They must have formed a view on how to phase spending cuts and tax rises over time, to encourage short-term demand while entrenching long-term discipline. These surely are tricks of their trade.Yet they have already made it harder for themselves by closing options and making mistakes. Osborne appears to have rejected the solution of fair pain for all, adopted by governments in Canada and Ireland. David Cameron cut ministerial salaries by 5% this year. It is hard to see why he has not done so across the entire public sector, perhaps reducing the cut progressively to 1% for the low paid.Such a \"nuclear option\", which could have realised \u00a34bn-5bn of his target right away, required no further argument. Fairness is a great salve to pain. As it is, the Treasury must do battle across every mile of departmental territory, with rearguard actions fought by ministers in every corner.Another mistake was to ringfence some budgets \u2013 notably health, education and overseas aid \u2013 but not others. This was Margaret Thatcher's error in 1979, blessing special interests either because she promised at the election or because she just liked them, such as defence and the police. It doubled the agony of \"Tory cuts\" on the rest.Any observer of Whitehall's health and education quangocracy will be astonished if it is let off lightly. Labour at one point declared that \u00a311bn could be found from health and \u00a35bn from education overheads \"without harming frontline services\". Let's see those savings now.Osborne has named a few fat pigs for slaughter, such as the ID-cards computer and Labour's lavish consultancy budget, but his meadow is still packed with sacred cows. Retaining Trident and the aircraft carrier fleet is mere great-power posturing. Pretending that glamorous computer projects would yield \"\u00a32bn\" more in savings is nonsense. If Osborne thinks a Whitehall computer ever saves money rather than spends it, he should name one. Computer projects to Labour ministers were like yachts to an oligarch, ostentatious eye candy.Other existing errors wait to be corrected. The government should liberate public institutions to manage their own business through recession. A deluge of abuse is about to erupt from the middle-class lobbies of higher education and the arts, which Labour turned into budgetary arms of central government. Not only are their pay and rations fixed centrally but their revenue is shackled. Universities should be freed to fix whatever fees they choose and museums to deal with their own entry arrangements. Osborne does not have to tell them what to do, merely stop telling them what not to do.Equally he should leave local government to take up some of the slack of the cuts \u2013 and thus some of the blame for them. Councils can be far more flexible than government in reordering priorities for spending on schools, clinics, roads and leisure. They can plug holes in the welfare state. They can absorb pain. But they cannot do so if their budgets are riddled with Treasury targets and controls, and their money-raising powers are curtailed. Cameron has cleverly built a coalition for cuts with others in parliament. He should build one with local government as well.The government has carefully rolled the political pitch for next week's cuts announcement, assisted by Liam Byrne's bizarre \"no money left\" epilogue on his own time at the Treasury. It can rightly blame Labour for the mess, but as of next week it must accept the mandate it was given by the electorate \u2013 to clear up the mess.This is not a matter of ideology. Nobody at the recent election wanted to see public services reduced or the recovery damaged. Britain has no need of Athenian riots in the streets to teach us budgetary management. The jobs of thousands and the welfare of millions depend on it.Osborne and Cameron need to seek a wider deal than any yet seen \u2013 intellectual as much as political \u2013 on how best to fix the deficit while causing least harm to the recovery. It should be a matter of economic science rather than political argument. But if argument there must be, it should be for political grown-ups \u2013 a coalition of the willing and the unwilling alike.", "tags": ["Economic policy", "Public services policy", "Conservatives", "Liberal Democrats", "Canada", "David Cameron", "George Osborne", "Ireland", "Local government", "David Laws", "Society", "Business", "Politics", "UK news", "Europe", "Americas"], "title": "A coalition for cuts? Canada, not Thatcher, is the model | Simon Jenkins"},{"date": "2010-05-21T13:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Since the days of pulp paperbacks, the French Minitel and beyond, the pornography industry has developed in unison with media innovation. Porn producers backed VHS in the video wars of the 80s, and in the 90s they blessed the world's lonely motel rooms with pay-per-view. They then carried the internet on their sweaty backs until every man, woman and child had unlimited access to as much porn as they could ever want.But the internet has proven to be the porn industry's very own Judas goat. Since social networking surpassed porn as the web's premier draw in 2008, the proliferation of amateur content and \"tube\" sites offering user-uploaded videos has crippled DVD sales and online subscriptions. Worse yet, Apple has in effect hogtied further innovation by blocking porn apps from the iPhone and iPad, and has gone so far as to ban unnecessary instances of the female nipple. Last week Steve Jobs, now apparently the Franklin D Roosevelt of consumer technocracy, hinted at his company's broader vision by stating that the iPad will offer its users \"freedom from porn\".With parasitic pirates on one side and anti-porn iconoclasts on the other, just how rough is it out there for adult entertainment professionals? Well, you know the industry is in a tight spot when it starts releasing heartfelt pleas from Ron Jeremy intended to appeal to his audience's moral fibre.After years of pushing hardcore to its physical and ethical limits, all the sordid, comic and absurd possibilities of human intercourse have been thoroughly exhausted. And like any pop-culture fin de siecle, porn's lustre of excess has faded into something entirely banal. A sneaky glance at Pornhub, the leading tube site that currently gets more traffic than CNN, reveals a backlog of neatly categorised niche fetishes that would take years to consume, with new videos being uploaded on the hour.While the hardcore wing of the porno-industrial complex may have entered into unavoidable decline, softcore television programming continues to flourish. What this suggests is that contrary to what Jeremy says, pornography's dilemma is one of content, rather than copyright.In order for porn to move into the 21st century, the productions should be made to appeal to a wider audience and be able to hold a viewer's attention longer than say, two and half minutes. The most obvious move for the modern pornographer would be to create content aimed specifically at women, who have until recently been all but ignored. Indeed, many women enjoy what's currently available, but the vast majority of today's porn is still produced only with male tastes in mind. And though there is no shortage of diversity in terms of the sex acts that appear on screen, racial and gender stereotypes continue to be encouraged by the industry's status quo, allowing porn to remain one of the only mediums where racism and misogyny are still openly tolerated.However, the incentive for change is not likely to come from within. The industry's reaction to Jobs's crusade and the rise of tube sites has been to push for more technological development, specifically effects-driven megaproductions a la Avatar. Which is great, if you're into that sort of thing. But for anyone interested in the development of new or less caustic forms of adult entertainment, the government of Canada may prove to be a more effective catalyst than the advent of giant 3-D genitals.In April it was announced that the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission approved the licensing of Canada's first porn channel. Known as \"Vanessa\", it will begin to air in October and will be required to adhere to Canadian content regulations, which mandate that programmes featured on the channel include \"equitable portrayals\" of the sexes and uniquely Canadian themes and settings. If it proves to be profitable, Vanessa could set the tone for the production of more culturally relevant and socially progressive pornography. If it's a flop, at least anyone out there with a Canada fetish will no longer have to subsist on decades-old Kids in the Hall skits.", "tags": ["Pornography", "Steve Jobs", "iPad", "Internet", "Women", "Technology", "Apple", "Television", "Life and style", "Television & radio", "Culture", "World news", "Canada", "Media", "Americas"], "title": "Never mind the iPad ... porn needs the Canada position | Douglas Haddow"},{"date": "2010-09-29T15:38:20Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Based on US President Barack Obama's 31 August pronouncement and the uncritical TV news coverage of it, it might be reasonable to believe that the Iraq war is over. The frustrating truth, however, is that for the Iraqi people, for American soldiers who continue to be deployed to Iraq, and for those US soldiers who refused to take part in the war and sought refuge in Canada, the facts are very different.Tom Kent, the Associated Press's deputy managing editor for standards and production, explained it best in a memo to the journalists working for his internationally respected news organisation earlier this month:\"To begin with, combat in Iraq is not over, and we should not uncritically repeat suggestions that it is, even if they come from senior officials. The situation on the ground in Iraq is no different today than it has been for some months.\"As for US involvement, it also goes too far to say that the US part in the conflict in Iraq is over. President Obama said Monday night that 'the American combat mission in Iraq has ended. Operation Iraqi Freedom is over, and the Iraqi people now have lead responsibility for the security of their country.'\"However, 50,000 American troops remain in country. Our own reporting on the ground confirms that some of these troops, especially some 4,500 special operations forces, continue to be directly engaged in military operations. These troops are accompanying Iraqi soldiers into battle with militant groups and may well fire and be fired on.\"In addition, although administration spokesmen say we are now at the tail end of American involvement and all troops will be gone by the end of 2011, there is no guarantee that this will be the case.\"For many, particularly the families mourning the more than 100,000 documented Iraqi civilian deaths caused by this unnecessary war, it is not possible simply to declare the lies, violence and misery resolved.There is also the persistent matter of how and why this ongoing war was started. The Bush and Blair duo's purposeful communication of false evidence of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) continues to be important because the N\u00fcremberg military tribunals, which followed the horrors of the second world war, determined that:\"To initiate a war of aggression\u2026 is not only an international crime; it is the supreme international crime differing only from other war crimes in that it contains within itself the accumulated evil of the whole.\"US Iraq war veteran Rodney Watson marked the first full year of sanctuary in Vancouver's First United Church on 18 September because he refuses to be jailed while those responsible for sending him into an illegal war remain free to write books and profit from their crimes. Rodney and an estimated 200 other US Iraq war resisters came to Canada seeking refuge in a country that came to the same conclusion about the Iraq war as they did. They have, instead, found themselves threatened by our government with deportation and harsh punishment by the US military.This past July, the federal court of appeal ruled that the request by Jeremy Hinzman \u2013 the first Iraq war resister to come to Canada \u2013 for permanent resident status based on humanitarian and compassionate grounds must be sent back for reconsideration by a different immigration officer. The court unanimously found (PDF) that the first review of his case was \"significantly flawed\" and \"unreasonable\", sending the message that officials can no longer ignore the sincerely held moral, political and religious beliefs that motivated these conscientious soldiers to become war resisters.Canada has a proud tradition of accepting war resisters, which extends all the way back to the United Empire Loyalists. During the 1960s and early 1970s, we welcomed more than 50,000 Vietnam war resisters who were the \"largest, best-educated group this country had ever received.\" Despite denials by the current Conservative minority administration, the government of Canada's own historians have correctly recounted that this group included both draft-dodgers and deserters.In 2008, after the first vote by parliament directing our government to stop deporting Iraq war resisters and fairly consider their requests for permanent resident status, nearly two thirds of Canadians surveyed by Angus Reid (PDF) agreed with parliament's decision. Since then, resisters Robin Long and Cliff Cornell were forced back to the US. With interviews about their political and moral opposition to the war that aired on CBC and CNN used as evidence against them, they were court-martialled for desertion and imprisoned for longer terms than some soldiers who have been convicted of rape.Back in 2003, Stephen Harper, as leader of the opposition, went on Fox News to endorse Bush's criminal war plans and assert that, were he prime minister, he would send Canadians to Iraq. At the same time, hundreds of thousands marched in the streets across Canada condemning the war before it even started. Canadians convinced the government of the day to make the right judgment. Fast-forward to our last federal election two years ago, and even Harper admitted the Iraq war was \"absolutely an error\".On Wednesday, Bill C-440 \u2013 an act to amend the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (war resisters) \u2013 will be voted on at second reading. If passed, it will give the force of law to parliament's clear direction and effect to the will of the majority of Canadians that accepting Iraq war resisters is the right thing to do.This bill should not be necessary, as parliament and a majority of Canadians have said they want Iraq war resisters to stay. But this legislation is necessary, because these resisters still face harsh punishment if returned to the US for refusing to be part of a war that never should have happened. Its adoption by the house of commons and senate would be a victory for the very democracy that Iraq war proponents have tried to mislead the world into believing was their goal.", "tags": ["Canada", "Iraq", "Barack Obama", "Stephen Harper", "Human rights", "War crimes", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada wants US war resisters to stay | Paul Copeland"},{"date": "2010-09-29T15:38:20Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Based on US President Barack Obama's 31 August pronouncement and the uncritical TV news coverage of it, it might be reasonable to believe that the Iraq war is over. The frustrating truth, however, is that for the Iraqi people, for American soldiers who continue to be deployed to Iraq, and for those US soldiers who refused to take part in the war and sought refuge in Canada, the facts are very different.Tom Kent, the Associated Press's deputy managing editor for standards and production, explained it best in a memo to the journalists working for his internationally respected news organisation earlier this month:\"To begin with, combat in Iraq is not over, and we should not uncritically repeat suggestions that it is, even if they come from senior officials. The situation on the ground in Iraq is no different today than it has been for some months.\"As for US involvement, it also goes too far to say that the US part in the conflict in Iraq is over. President Obama said Monday night that 'the American combat mission in Iraq has ended. Operation Iraqi Freedom is over, and the Iraqi people now have lead responsibility for the security of their country.'\"However, 50,000 American troops remain in country. Our own reporting on the ground confirms that some of these troops, especially some 4,500 special operations forces, continue to be directly engaged in military operations. These troops are accompanying Iraqi soldiers into battle with militant groups and may well fire and be fired on.\"In addition, although administration spokesmen say we are now at the tail end of American involvement and all troops will be gone by the end of 2011, there is no guarantee that this will be the case.\"For many, particularly the families mourning the more than 100,000 documented Iraqi civilian deaths caused by this unnecessary war, it is not possible simply to declare the lies, violence and misery resolved.There is also the persistent matter of how and why this ongoing war was started. The Bush and Blair duo's purposeful communication of false evidence of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) continues to be important because the N\u00fcremberg military tribunals, which followed the horrors of the second world war, determined that:\"To initiate a war of aggression\u2026 is not only an international crime; it is the supreme international crime differing only from other war crimes in that it contains within itself the accumulated evil of the whole.\"US Iraq war veteran Rodney Watson marked the first full year of sanctuary in Vancouver's First United Church on 18 September because he refuses to be jailed while those responsible for sending him into an illegal war remain free to write books and profit from their crimes. Rodney and an estimated 200 other US Iraq war resisters came to Canada seeking refuge in a country that came to the same conclusion about the Iraq war as they did. They have, instead, found themselves threatened by our government with deportation and harsh punishment by the US military.This past July, the federal court of appeal ruled that the request by Jeremy Hinzman \u2013 the first Iraq war resister to come to Canada \u2013 for permanent resident status based on humanitarian and compassionate grounds must be sent back for reconsideration by a different immigration officer. The court unanimously found (PDF) that the first review of his case was \"significantly flawed\" and \"unreasonable\", sending the message that officials can no longer ignore the sincerely held moral, political and religious beliefs that motivated these conscientious soldiers to become war resisters.Canada has a proud tradition of accepting war resisters, which extends all the way back to the United Empire Loyalists. During the 1960s and early 1970s, we welcomed more than 50,000 Vietnam war resisters who were the \"largest, best-educated group this country had ever received.\" Despite denials by the current Conservative minority administration, the government of Canada's own historians have correctly recounted that this group included both draft-dodgers and deserters.In 2008, after the first vote by parliament directing our government to stop deporting Iraq war resisters and fairly consider their requests for permanent resident status, nearly two thirds of Canadians surveyed by Angus Reid (PDF) agreed with parliament's decision. Since then, resisters Robin Long and Cliff Cornell were forced back to the US. With interviews about their political and moral opposition to the war that aired on CBC and CNN used as evidence against them, they were court-martialled for desertion and imprisoned for longer terms than some soldiers who have been convicted of rape.Back in 2003, Stephen Harper, as leader of the opposition, went on Fox News to endorse Bush's criminal war plans and assert that, were he prime minister, he would send Canadians to Iraq. At the same time, hundreds of thousands marched in the streets across Canada condemning the war before it even started. Canadians convinced the government of the day to make the right judgment. Fast-forward to our last federal election two years ago, and even Harper admitted the Iraq war was \"absolutely an error\".On Wednesday, Bill C-440 \u2013 an act to amend the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (war resisters) \u2013 will be voted on at second reading. If passed, it will give the force of law to parliament's clear direction and effect to the will of the majority of Canadians that accepting Iraq war resisters is the right thing to do.This bill should not be necessary, as parliament and a majority of Canadians have said they want Iraq war resisters to stay. But this legislation is necessary, because these resisters still face harsh punishment if returned to the US for refusing to be part of a war that never should have happened. Its adoption by the house of commons and senate would be a victory for the very democracy that Iraq war proponents have tried to mislead the world into believing was their goal.", "tags": ["Canada", "Iraq", "Barack Obama", "Stephen Harper", "Human rights", "War crimes", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada wants US war resisters to stay | Paul Copeland"},{"date": "2010-09-14T13:01:15Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's immigration minister Jason Kenney has come under sustained criticism from lawyers representing migrants after his sudden change to visa rules in June made it obligatory for skilled workers from English- and French-speaking countries to prove that they are competent in one of those languages before they are allowed to settle.Applicants who could provide documentary proof of schooling in English or French medium countries were not required to sit either the Ielts test of English or the Test d'Evaluation de Fran\u00e7ais, but the rule change removes that exemption.David Matas, a spokesman for the Canadian Bar Association, called the change arbitrary and a violation of applicants' rights.\"What [the minister] is doing is taking a power over processing and using it, in effect, to amend the law,\" Matas told The Globe and Mail newspaper. \"It gives me a good deal of concern and isn't just about language testing or immigration. It's the sort of power that, if accepted, would wreak havoc with all our laws.\"Other critics said it would delay applications and add extra costs for up to 30,000 migrants from English- or French-speaking countries.A ministerial spokeswoman said the change was necessary because non-native English or French speakers often used the documentation option and visa officers found it difficult to assess their abilities.Meanwhile, Canada's National Post newspaper reported that eight members of the Afghan military, wanted in the US after going awol from an English language training course at an air force base in Texas, are seeking refugee status in Canada.Japan schools look forward to business-English boostJapan's beleaguered English language training sector is hopeful that a trend among Japanese companies to make English their official in\u2011house language, in a bid to internationalise their businesses, will create new demand for classes.Rakuten, Japan's biggest online retailer, plans to make English the firm's official language, while Fast Retailing, operator of the Uniqlo clothing chain, wants to make English more common in its offices by 2012 and plans to test its employees. The company hopes overseas sales will eventually account for 70% of its online sales and staff will be expected to master English by 2012 or face the sack. \"No English, no job,\" Rakuten CEO Hiroshi Mikitani said.Japanese carmakers Toyota and Nissan have also announced moves to increase the use of English.Fast Retailing will not provide English classes for staff. \"How [employees] choose to meet these expectations is a personal choice,\" Daisuke Hase, a spokesman for Fast Retailing told Reuters.Beijing seeks to build on Olympic foundationsResidents of Beijing are under renewed pressure to learn English as part of an official drive to make the Chinese capital into a \"world city\".A recently relaunched government programme, which started in 2002 in preparation for the Beijing Olympics, calls for all preschools in the city to introduce English courses within five years.According to local press reports, a minimum of 60% of shop assistants, receptionists and hairdressers under 40 will also be required to pass English tests by 2015, as will 80% of police officers.Every civil servant under the age of 40 with a bachelor's degree will also be required to master a minimum of 1,000 English sentences.Max de Lotbini\u00e8remax.delotbiniere@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Education"], "title": "Canada tests language of all migrant skilled workers | Education"},{"date": "2010-09-29T15:38:20Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Based on US President Barack Obama's 31 August pronouncement and the uncritical TV news coverage of it, it might be reasonable to believe that the Iraq war is over. The frustrating truth, however, is that for the Iraqi people, for American soldiers who continue to be deployed to Iraq, and for those US soldiers who refused to take part in the war and sought refuge in Canada, the facts are very different.Tom Kent, the Associated Press's deputy managing editor for standards and production, explained it best in a memo to the journalists working for his internationally respected news organisation earlier this month:\"To begin with, combat in Iraq is not over, and we should not uncritically repeat suggestions that it is, even if they come from senior officials. The situation on the ground in Iraq is no different today than it has been for some months.\"As for US involvement, it also goes too far to say that the US part in the conflict in Iraq is over. President Obama said Monday night that 'the American combat mission in Iraq has ended. Operation Iraqi Freedom is over, and the Iraqi people now have lead responsibility for the security of their country.'\"However, 50,000 American troops remain in country. Our own reporting on the ground confirms that some of these troops, especially some 4,500 special operations forces, continue to be directly engaged in military operations. These troops are accompanying Iraqi soldiers into battle with militant groups and may well fire and be fired on.\"In addition, although administration spokesmen say we are now at the tail end of American involvement and all troops will be gone by the end of 2011, there is no guarantee that this will be the case.\"For many, particularly the families mourning the more than 100,000 documented Iraqi civilian deaths caused by this unnecessary war, it is not possible simply to declare the lies, violence and misery resolved.There is also the persistent matter of how and why this ongoing war was started. The Bush and Blair duo's purposeful communication of false evidence of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) continues to be important because the N\u00fcremberg military tribunals, which followed the horrors of the second world war, determined that:\"To initiate a war of aggression\u2026 is not only an international crime; it is the supreme international crime differing only from other war crimes in that it contains within itself the accumulated evil of the whole.\"US Iraq war veteran Rodney Watson marked the first full year of sanctuary in Vancouver's First United Church on 18 September because he refuses to be jailed while those responsible for sending him into an illegal war remain free to write books and profit from their crimes. Rodney and an estimated 200 other US Iraq war resisters came to Canada seeking refuge in a country that came to the same conclusion about the Iraq war as they did. They have, instead, found themselves threatened by our government with deportation and harsh punishment by the US military.This past July, the federal court of appeal ruled that the request by Jeremy Hinzman \u2013 the first Iraq war resister to come to Canada \u2013 for permanent resident status based on humanitarian and compassionate grounds must be sent back for reconsideration by a different immigration officer. The court unanimously found (PDF) that the first review of his case was \"significantly flawed\" and \"unreasonable\", sending the message that officials can no longer ignore the sincerely held moral, political and religious beliefs that motivated these conscientious soldiers to become war resisters.Canada has a proud tradition of accepting war resisters, which extends all the way back to the United Empire Loyalists. During the 1960s and early 1970s, we welcomed more than 50,000 Vietnam war resisters who were the \"largest, best-educated group this country had ever received.\" Despite denials by the current Conservative minority administration, the government of Canada's own historians have correctly recounted that this group included both draft-dodgers and deserters.In 2008, after the first vote by parliament directing our government to stop deporting Iraq war resisters and fairly consider their requests for permanent resident status, nearly two thirds of Canadians surveyed by Angus Reid (PDF) agreed with parliament's decision. Since then, resisters Robin Long and Cliff Cornell were forced back to the US. With interviews about their political and moral opposition to the war that aired on CBC and CNN used as evidence against them, they were court-martialled for desertion and imprisoned for longer terms than some soldiers who have been convicted of rape.Back in 2003, Stephen Harper, as leader of the opposition, went on Fox News to endorse Bush's criminal war plans and assert that, were he prime minister, he would send Canadians to Iraq. At the same time, hundreds of thousands marched in the streets across Canada condemning the war before it even started. Canadians convinced the government of the day to make the right judgment. Fast-forward to our last federal election two years ago, and even Harper admitted the Iraq war was \"absolutely an error\".On Wednesday, Bill C-440 \u2013 an act to amend the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (war resisters) \u2013 will be voted on at second reading. If passed, it will give the force of law to parliament's clear direction and effect to the will of the majority of Canadians that accepting Iraq war resisters is the right thing to do.This bill should not be necessary, as parliament and a majority of Canadians have said they want Iraq war resisters to stay. But this legislation is necessary, because these resisters still face harsh punishment if returned to the US for refusing to be part of a war that never should have happened. Its adoption by the house of commons and senate would be a victory for the very democracy that Iraq war proponents have tried to mislead the world into believing was their goal.", "tags": ["Canada", "Iraq", "Barack Obama", "Stephen Harper", "Human rights", "War crimes", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada wants US war resisters to stay | Paul Copeland"},{"date": "2010-09-14T13:01:15Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's immigration minister Jason Kenney has come under sustained criticism from lawyers representing migrants after his sudden change to visa rules in June made it obligatory for skilled workers from English- and French-speaking countries to prove that they are competent in one of those languages before they are allowed to settle.Applicants who could provide documentary proof of schooling in English or French medium countries were not required to sit either the Ielts test of English or the Test d'Evaluation de Fran\u00e7ais, but the rule change removes that exemption.David Matas, a spokesman for the Canadian Bar Association, called the change arbitrary and a violation of applicants' rights.\"What [the minister] is doing is taking a power over processing and using it, in effect, to amend the law,\" Matas told The Globe and Mail newspaper. \"It gives me a good deal of concern and isn't just about language testing or immigration. It's the sort of power that, if accepted, would wreak havoc with all our laws.\"Other critics said it would delay applications and add extra costs for up to 30,000 migrants from English- or French-speaking countries.A ministerial spokeswoman said the change was necessary because non-native English or French speakers often used the documentation option and visa officers found it difficult to assess their abilities.Meanwhile, Canada's National Post newspaper reported that eight members of the Afghan military, wanted in the US after going awol from an English language training course at an air force base in Texas, are seeking refugee status in Canada.Japan schools look forward to business-English boostJapan's beleaguered English language training sector is hopeful that a trend among Japanese companies to make English their official in\u2011house language, in a bid to internationalise their businesses, will create new demand for classes.Rakuten, Japan's biggest online retailer, plans to make English the firm's official language, while Fast Retailing, operator of the Uniqlo clothing chain, wants to make English more common in its offices by 2012 and plans to test its employees. The company hopes overseas sales will eventually account for 70% of its online sales and staff will be expected to master English by 2012 or face the sack. \"No English, no job,\" Rakuten CEO Hiroshi Mikitani said.Japanese carmakers Toyota and Nissan have also announced moves to increase the use of English.Fast Retailing will not provide English classes for staff. \"How [employees] choose to meet these expectations is a personal choice,\" Daisuke Hase, a spokesman for Fast Retailing told Reuters.Beijing seeks to build on Olympic foundationsResidents of Beijing are under renewed pressure to learn English as part of an official drive to make the Chinese capital into a \"world city\".A recently relaunched government programme, which started in 2002 in preparation for the Beijing Olympics, calls for all preschools in the city to introduce English courses within five years.According to local press reports, a minimum of 60% of shop assistants, receptionists and hairdressers under 40 will also be required to pass English tests by 2015, as will 80% of police officers.Every civil servant under the age of 40 with a bachelor's degree will also be required to master a minimum of 1,000 English sentences.Max de Lotbini\u00e8remax.delotbiniere@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Education"], "title": "Canada tests language of all migrant skilled workers | Education"},{"date": "2010-09-02T15:36:59Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Near the end of Scott Pilgrim Vs the World, Comeau, the guy who \"knows everybody\", can be overheard having a conversation about which is better, the movie or the comic book. Lest I be out-meta'ed, then, let me carefully sidestep the issue of whether Bryan Lee O'Malley's graphic novel is superior to its big screen adaptation (or vice versa) and just say this: Hollywood nimbly dodged a fireball and landed a 64-punch combo by staying so true to Scott Pilgrim's strange, funny and very deep-rooted Canadianness.Which is not an easy thing to define. A surefire dinner party conversation starter with Canadians (and a quick way to send everyone else home early) is to ask: \"But what ... exactly does it mean to be Canadian?\" Try it. If you come up with anything other than single-tier universal healthcare, ice hockey and a sort of vague licentiousness, I have a 1kg bottle of Quebec Medium No 1 maple syrup with your name on it.But Scott Pilgrim has Canada \u2013 or at least Toronto \u2013 down. It nails the city's confident but self-conscious sense of humour, the love of bad puns (\"I was just a little bi-curious!\" \"Well honey, I'm a little bi-furious\"), the self-deprecating jokes (\"What's the website for Amazon.ca?\"), and the very malleability of being Canadian (\"When I'm around you, I kind of feel like I'm on drugs. Not that I do drugs. Unless you do drugs, in which case I do them all the time.\")Many Canadians feel towards their country exactly what the Scott Pilgrim comic/film feels towards its protagonist: fond contempt. Not taking yourself too seriously seems to be key when you're lying in bed with a cultural elephant that could not only squash you, but doesn't even know you're there.This wary jokiness about America is also a key element of the plot. In search of bigger US box office takings, Edgar Wright could well have set Scott Pilgrim in, say, Seattle, but only at the expense of the comic's wonderfully pitched attitude towards the States.Scott's love interest, Ramona Flowers, is an American, and so is the No 1 big boss ex-boyfriend, music promoter Gideon. The latter makes various disparaging remarks about Canada, but Scott (or, as Ramona calls him in the comic, \"Canada boy\"), fights right back: \"You're pretentious, this club sucks, I have beef. Let's fight.\"With a light touch, the film captures Toronto's paradoxical, smug inferiority towards the US, and specifically New York. Torontonians know they're less important, less powerful and generally less stylish than New Yorkers, but take a perverse pride in not caring. It shows off what I've always loved about Toronto: its beautiful marriage of big-city sheen and quiet, empty, snow-muffled desolation. Toronto is a romantic city, especially in winter, especially if you take romance with a grain of salt. If you can set a romcom in coffee chains in Seattle, it's about time we had one on snowy park swings at midnight.Not all film adaptations are as faithful to setting \u2013 with often disastrous results. Fever Pitch transposed Nick Hornby's novel about his solitary, girl-free obsession with Arsenal into a romcom starring Jimmy Fallon as a Boston Red Sox fan. The US remake of the Australian comedy Kath and Kim inexplicably made the two characters educated, middle class and attractive, thus inherently negating the \"bogan\" hilarity of the original.Also, in its American, Richard Gere-led incarnation, Shall We Dance? was an embarrassing misstep. This makes sense when you understand that what made the original Japanese film a hit is that ballroom dancing, and the public male-female physical interaction it requires, is fairly taboo in Japan.But my vote for worst locale-changing in film goes to U571. This ping-and-periscope schlock about the boarding of a German U-boat in the second world war had the gall to state it was American submarine officers who captured the famous Enigma cipher machine from the Nazis, thus changing the course of the war and helping to defeat Hitler. It was, of course, British naval officers who captured the first Enigma, not to mention British codebreakers at Bletchley Park, led by Alan Turing (British), who cracked its secrets. The movie's only saving grace is that Jon Bon Jovi gets swept overboard.U571's setting crimes may soon be dwarfed, however, if rumours of a live-action Akira set in Manhattan, rather than nuclear-afeared Tokyo, are true. (See this artist's rendering of Akira USA for further evidence.) But that's just my precious little Canadian opinion. Let's hear your votes: know any Fear & Loathing in Enfields I haven't mentioned?", "tags": ["Film", "Action and adventure", "Edgar Wright", "Canada", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Location location location: Scott Pilgrim's love letter to Canada"},{"date": "2010-09-29T15:38:20Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Based on US President Barack Obama's 31 August pronouncement and the uncritical TV news coverage of it, it might be reasonable to believe that the Iraq war is over. The frustrating truth, however, is that for the Iraqi people, for American soldiers who continue to be deployed to Iraq, and for those US soldiers who refused to take part in the war and sought refuge in Canada, the facts are very different.Tom Kent, the Associated Press's deputy managing editor for standards and production, explained it best in a memo to the journalists working for his internationally respected news organisation earlier this month:\"To begin with, combat in Iraq is not over, and we should not uncritically repeat suggestions that it is, even if they come from senior officials. The situation on the ground in Iraq is no different today than it has been for some months.\"As for US involvement, it also goes too far to say that the US part in the conflict in Iraq is over. President Obama said Monday night that 'the American combat mission in Iraq has ended. Operation Iraqi Freedom is over, and the Iraqi people now have lead responsibility for the security of their country.'\"However, 50,000 American troops remain in country. Our own reporting on the ground confirms that some of these troops, especially some 4,500 special operations forces, continue to be directly engaged in military operations. These troops are accompanying Iraqi soldiers into battle with militant groups and may well fire and be fired on.\"In addition, although administration spokesmen say we are now at the tail end of American involvement and all troops will be gone by the end of 2011, there is no guarantee that this will be the case.\"For many, particularly the families mourning the more than 100,000 documented Iraqi civilian deaths caused by this unnecessary war, it is not possible simply to declare the lies, violence and misery resolved.There is also the persistent matter of how and why this ongoing war was started. The Bush and Blair duo's purposeful communication of false evidence of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) continues to be important because the N\u00fcremberg military tribunals, which followed the horrors of the second world war, determined that:\"To initiate a war of aggression\u2026 is not only an international crime; it is the supreme international crime differing only from other war crimes in that it contains within itself the accumulated evil of the whole.\"US Iraq war veteran Rodney Watson marked the first full year of sanctuary in Vancouver's First United Church on 18 September because he refuses to be jailed while those responsible for sending him into an illegal war remain free to write books and profit from their crimes. Rodney and an estimated 200 other US Iraq war resisters came to Canada seeking refuge in a country that came to the same conclusion about the Iraq war as they did. They have, instead, found themselves threatened by our government with deportation and harsh punishment by the US military.This past July, the federal court of appeal ruled that the request by Jeremy Hinzman \u2013 the first Iraq war resister to come to Canada \u2013 for permanent resident status based on humanitarian and compassionate grounds must be sent back for reconsideration by a different immigration officer. The court unanimously found (PDF) that the first review of his case was \"significantly flawed\" and \"unreasonable\", sending the message that officials can no longer ignore the sincerely held moral, political and religious beliefs that motivated these conscientious soldiers to become war resisters.Canada has a proud tradition of accepting war resisters, which extends all the way back to the United Empire Loyalists. During the 1960s and early 1970s, we welcomed more than 50,000 Vietnam war resisters who were the \"largest, best-educated group this country had ever received.\" Despite denials by the current Conservative minority administration, the government of Canada's own historians have correctly recounted that this group included both draft-dodgers and deserters.In 2008, after the first vote by parliament directing our government to stop deporting Iraq war resisters and fairly consider their requests for permanent resident status, nearly two thirds of Canadians surveyed by Angus Reid (PDF) agreed with parliament's decision. Since then, resisters Robin Long and Cliff Cornell were forced back to the US. With interviews about their political and moral opposition to the war that aired on CBC and CNN used as evidence against them, they were court-martialled for desertion and imprisoned for longer terms than some soldiers who have been convicted of rape.Back in 2003, Stephen Harper, as leader of the opposition, went on Fox News to endorse Bush's criminal war plans and assert that, were he prime minister, he would send Canadians to Iraq. At the same time, hundreds of thousands marched in the streets across Canada condemning the war before it even started. Canadians convinced the government of the day to make the right judgment. Fast-forward to our last federal election two years ago, and even Harper admitted the Iraq war was \"absolutely an error\".On Wednesday, Bill C-440 \u2013 an act to amend the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (war resisters) \u2013 will be voted on at second reading. If passed, it will give the force of law to parliament's clear direction and effect to the will of the majority of Canadians that accepting Iraq war resisters is the right thing to do.This bill should not be necessary, as parliament and a majority of Canadians have said they want Iraq war resisters to stay. But this legislation is necessary, because these resisters still face harsh punishment if returned to the US for refusing to be part of a war that never should have happened. Its adoption by the house of commons and senate would be a victory for the very democracy that Iraq war proponents have tried to mislead the world into believing was their goal.", "tags": ["Canada", "Iraq", "Barack Obama", "Stephen Harper", "Human rights", "War crimes", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada wants US war resisters to stay | Paul Copeland"},{"date": "2010-09-14T13:01:15Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's immigration minister Jason Kenney has come under sustained criticism from lawyers representing migrants after his sudden change to visa rules in June made it obligatory for skilled workers from English- and French-speaking countries to prove that they are competent in one of those languages before they are allowed to settle.Applicants who could provide documentary proof of schooling in English or French medium countries were not required to sit either the Ielts test of English or the Test d'Evaluation de Fran\u00e7ais, but the rule change removes that exemption.David Matas, a spokesman for the Canadian Bar Association, called the change arbitrary and a violation of applicants' rights.\"What [the minister] is doing is taking a power over processing and using it, in effect, to amend the law,\" Matas told The Globe and Mail newspaper. \"It gives me a good deal of concern and isn't just about language testing or immigration. It's the sort of power that, if accepted, would wreak havoc with all our laws.\"Other critics said it would delay applications and add extra costs for up to 30,000 migrants from English- or French-speaking countries.A ministerial spokeswoman said the change was necessary because non-native English or French speakers often used the documentation option and visa officers found it difficult to assess their abilities.Meanwhile, Canada's National Post newspaper reported that eight members of the Afghan military, wanted in the US after going awol from an English language training course at an air force base in Texas, are seeking refugee status in Canada.Japan schools look forward to business-English boostJapan's beleaguered English language training sector is hopeful that a trend among Japanese companies to make English their official in\u2011house language, in a bid to internationalise their businesses, will create new demand for classes.Rakuten, Japan's biggest online retailer, plans to make English the firm's official language, while Fast Retailing, operator of the Uniqlo clothing chain, wants to make English more common in its offices by 2012 and plans to test its employees. The company hopes overseas sales will eventually account for 70% of its online sales and staff will be expected to master English by 2012 or face the sack. \"No English, no job,\" Rakuten CEO Hiroshi Mikitani said.Japanese carmakers Toyota and Nissan have also announced moves to increase the use of English.Fast Retailing will not provide English classes for staff. \"How [employees] choose to meet these expectations is a personal choice,\" Daisuke Hase, a spokesman for Fast Retailing told Reuters.Beijing seeks to build on Olympic foundationsResidents of Beijing are under renewed pressure to learn English as part of an official drive to make the Chinese capital into a \"world city\".A recently relaunched government programme, which started in 2002 in preparation for the Beijing Olympics, calls for all preschools in the city to introduce English courses within five years.According to local press reports, a minimum of 60% of shop assistants, receptionists and hairdressers under 40 will also be required to pass English tests by 2015, as will 80% of police officers.Every civil servant under the age of 40 with a bachelor's degree will also be required to master a minimum of 1,000 English sentences.Max de Lotbini\u00e8remax.delotbiniere@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Education"], "title": "Canada tests language of all migrant skilled workers | Education"},{"date": "2010-09-02T15:36:59Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Near the end of Scott Pilgrim Vs the World, Comeau, the guy who \"knows everybody\", can be overheard having a conversation about which is better, the movie or the comic book. Lest I be out-meta'ed, then, let me carefully sidestep the issue of whether Bryan Lee O'Malley's graphic novel is superior to its big screen adaptation (or vice versa) and just say this: Hollywood nimbly dodged a fireball and landed a 64-punch combo by staying so true to Scott Pilgrim's strange, funny and very deep-rooted Canadianness.Which is not an easy thing to define. A surefire dinner party conversation starter with Canadians (and a quick way to send everyone else home early) is to ask: \"But what ... exactly does it mean to be Canadian?\" Try it. If you come up with anything other than single-tier universal healthcare, ice hockey and a sort of vague licentiousness, I have a 1kg bottle of Quebec Medium No 1 maple syrup with your name on it.But Scott Pilgrim has Canada \u2013 or at least Toronto \u2013 down. It nails the city's confident but self-conscious sense of humour, the love of bad puns (\"I was just a little bi-curious!\" \"Well honey, I'm a little bi-furious\"), the self-deprecating jokes (\"What's the website for Amazon.ca?\"), and the very malleability of being Canadian (\"When I'm around you, I kind of feel like I'm on drugs. Not that I do drugs. Unless you do drugs, in which case I do them all the time.\")Many Canadians feel towards their country exactly what the Scott Pilgrim comic/film feels towards its protagonist: fond contempt. Not taking yourself too seriously seems to be key when you're lying in bed with a cultural elephant that could not only squash you, but doesn't even know you're there.This wary jokiness about America is also a key element of the plot. In search of bigger US box office takings, Edgar Wright could well have set Scott Pilgrim in, say, Seattle, but only at the expense of the comic's wonderfully pitched attitude towards the States.Scott's love interest, Ramona Flowers, is an American, and so is the No 1 big boss ex-boyfriend, music promoter Gideon. The latter makes various disparaging remarks about Canada, but Scott (or, as Ramona calls him in the comic, \"Canada boy\"), fights right back: \"You're pretentious, this club sucks, I have beef. Let's fight.\"With a light touch, the film captures Toronto's paradoxical, smug inferiority towards the US, and specifically New York. Torontonians know they're less important, less powerful and generally less stylish than New Yorkers, but take a perverse pride in not caring. It shows off what I've always loved about Toronto: its beautiful marriage of big-city sheen and quiet, empty, snow-muffled desolation. Toronto is a romantic city, especially in winter, especially if you take romance with a grain of salt. If you can set a romcom in coffee chains in Seattle, it's about time we had one on snowy park swings at midnight.Not all film adaptations are as faithful to setting \u2013 with often disastrous results. Fever Pitch transposed Nick Hornby's novel about his solitary, girl-free obsession with Arsenal into a romcom starring Jimmy Fallon as a Boston Red Sox fan. The US remake of the Australian comedy Kath and Kim inexplicably made the two characters educated, middle class and attractive, thus inherently negating the \"bogan\" hilarity of the original.Also, in its American, Richard Gere-led incarnation, Shall We Dance? was an embarrassing misstep. This makes sense when you understand that what made the original Japanese film a hit is that ballroom dancing, and the public male-female physical interaction it requires, is fairly taboo in Japan.But my vote for worst locale-changing in film goes to U571. This ping-and-periscope schlock about the boarding of a German U-boat in the second world war had the gall to state it was American submarine officers who captured the famous Enigma cipher machine from the Nazis, thus changing the course of the war and helping to defeat Hitler. It was, of course, British naval officers who captured the first Enigma, not to mention British codebreakers at Bletchley Park, led by Alan Turing (British), who cracked its secrets. The movie's only saving grace is that Jon Bon Jovi gets swept overboard.U571's setting crimes may soon be dwarfed, however, if rumours of a live-action Akira set in Manhattan, rather than nuclear-afeared Tokyo, are true. (See this artist's rendering of Akira USA for further evidence.) But that's just my precious little Canadian opinion. Let's hear your votes: know any Fear & Loathing in Enfields I haven't mentioned?", "tags": ["Film", "Action and adventure", "Edgar Wright", "Canada", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Location location location: Scott Pilgrim's love letter to Canada"},{"date": "2010-09-07T15:58:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The arrival off the west coast of Canada of a rusty boat containing nearly 500 exhausted Sri Lankan Tamil asylum seekers has sparked an angry debate about racism that has divided national opinion.The merchant vessel Sun Sea limped, under escort, into Esquimalt naval base in British Columbia on 13 August after a four month voyage from Songkhla in Thailand. The passengers spoke of grim conditions. One man died during the journey and was buried at sea.\"It is a miracle that they survived,\" David Poopalapillai of the Canadian Tamil Congress (CTC) told the Guardian. \"The boat is very primitive, you wouldn't even go out fishing in it.\" He ascribed their survival to the fact that they had been living for many months in very hostile conditions in Sri Lanka.The 380 men and 63 women are being held in detention centres near Vancouver. The 49 children on board are with their mothers although not officially detained. Hearings into whether the Tamils can be released while applications for refugee status are processed are due to start tomorrow .Even before the boat reached Canada, it had stirred up controversy. The Conservative prime minister, Stephen Harper, described the vessel as \"abnormal\", claimed that it created security concerns and warned that he could seek a change in the law to deal with similar arrivals. Canada's public safety minister, Vic Toews, said that it could contain members of the Tamil Tigers and that it was a \"test ship ... part of a broader organised criminal enterprise\".The government has been accused of scaremongering by the opposition, immigration lawyers and refugee groups. The Liberal party leader, Michael Ignatieff, criticised suggestions that the boat should have been turned away, as happened to similar vessels approaching Australia. He said during a recent political rally in Winnipeg: \"This is Canada, not Australia. That means Canada has principles, the charter of rights and freedoms, our international obligations.\"Canada has a long history of welcoming refugees, from 200,000 Hungarians who fled after the failed 1956 uprising to more than 100,000 US draft resisters who crossed into Canada during the Vietnam war. There were also darker times; coincidentally, last week, details were announced of a monument to commemorate the St Louis, a ship carrying Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany in 1939 which was turned away by the Canadian government. Many of its 900 passengers subsequently died in concentration camps.Lorne Waldman, the lawyer representing more than 50 of the asylum seekers, told the Guardian that before the boat landed the tone was set. \"From the get-go, it was suggested that there were criminals and terrorists aboard,\" he said. \"The Sri Lankan government has a huge interest in portraying them this way rather than as victims of a genocidal civil war. Some of those on board are victims of torture and have shrapnel wounds.\"Waldman, who represented a smaller number of Tamils who arrived last October on another boat, the Ocean Lady, said that terrorist claims had been made then but none substantiated.Professor Rohan Gunaratna, who is advising the Canadian government, said, in an email from his home in Singapore, that the Tamil Tigers had \"decided to regroup in Canada where (they) have traditionally raised funds and lobbied politicians that depended on the migrant-diaspora vote.\" He claimed there was evidence that the Tamil Tigers had organised the voyage.An opinion poll last month indicated that a majority of Canadians wanted the Tamils to be sent back.\"Why such rage directed at such a minuscule group?\" asked columnist Stephen Hume in the Vancouver Sun. \"Perhaps it's because they aren't white ... How we respond to a few Tamils seeking safety and a future for their children says far more about us than it does about them. And what it says so far is rather distasteful.\"This provoked a furious reaction. \"Gee, could it be that we are sick of being played for Patsies?\" was one of the milder responses from readers. \"You might sing a different song if your community was flooded with Hindus, Vietnamese, etc who brought such worthy skills with them as drive-by shootings, drug wars, murder of their own wives and daughters,\" read another.Poopalapillai, of the CTC, which represents about 200,000 Tamils, mainly in the Toronto area, blamed the Sri Lankan government for raising the spectre of terrorism. \"If there are any undesirable residents, put them through due process,\" he said. \"Most of these folks went through persecution and hostile conditions. The only thing they had in their mind was to save their lives.\" Of the opinion poll, he said: \"Canada is a very compassionate country but people were not very well informed at the time this poll was taken.\"A government spokeswoman said that the average process time for refugee status was 21 months but the hearings this week could lead to the conditional release of at least some of the asylum seekers once their identities had been established.", "tags": ["Canada", "Refugees", "Sri Lanka", "World news", "Americas", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Sri Lankan Tamil refugees spark racism row in Canada"},{"date": "2010-09-29T15:38:20Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Based on US President Barack Obama's 31 August pronouncement and the uncritical TV news coverage of it, it might be reasonable to believe that the Iraq war is over. The frustrating truth, however, is that for the Iraqi people, for American soldiers who continue to be deployed to Iraq, and for those US soldiers who refused to take part in the war and sought refuge in Canada, the facts are very different.Tom Kent, the Associated Press's deputy managing editor for standards and production, explained it best in a memo to the journalists working for his internationally respected news organisation earlier this month:\"To begin with, combat in Iraq is not over, and we should not uncritically repeat suggestions that it is, even if they come from senior officials. The situation on the ground in Iraq is no different today than it has been for some months.\"As for US involvement, it also goes too far to say that the US part in the conflict in Iraq is over. President Obama said Monday night that 'the American combat mission in Iraq has ended. Operation Iraqi Freedom is over, and the Iraqi people now have lead responsibility for the security of their country.'\"However, 50,000 American troops remain in country. Our own reporting on the ground confirms that some of these troops, especially some 4,500 special operations forces, continue to be directly engaged in military operations. These troops are accompanying Iraqi soldiers into battle with militant groups and may well fire and be fired on.\"In addition, although administration spokesmen say we are now at the tail end of American involvement and all troops will be gone by the end of 2011, there is no guarantee that this will be the case.\"For many, particularly the families mourning the more than 100,000 documented Iraqi civilian deaths caused by this unnecessary war, it is not possible simply to declare the lies, violence and misery resolved.There is also the persistent matter of how and why this ongoing war was started. The Bush and Blair duo's purposeful communication of false evidence of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) continues to be important because the N\u00fcremberg military tribunals, which followed the horrors of the second world war, determined that:\"To initiate a war of aggression\u2026 is not only an international crime; it is the supreme international crime differing only from other war crimes in that it contains within itself the accumulated evil of the whole.\"US Iraq war veteran Rodney Watson marked the first full year of sanctuary in Vancouver's First United Church on 18 September because he refuses to be jailed while those responsible for sending him into an illegal war remain free to write books and profit from their crimes. Rodney and an estimated 200 other US Iraq war resisters came to Canada seeking refuge in a country that came to the same conclusion about the Iraq war as they did. They have, instead, found themselves threatened by our government with deportation and harsh punishment by the US military.This past July, the federal court of appeal ruled that the request by Jeremy Hinzman \u2013 the first Iraq war resister to come to Canada \u2013 for permanent resident status based on humanitarian and compassionate grounds must be sent back for reconsideration by a different immigration officer. The court unanimously found (PDF) that the first review of his case was \"significantly flawed\" and \"unreasonable\", sending the message that officials can no longer ignore the sincerely held moral, political and religious beliefs that motivated these conscientious soldiers to become war resisters.Canada has a proud tradition of accepting war resisters, which extends all the way back to the United Empire Loyalists. During the 1960s and early 1970s, we welcomed more than 50,000 Vietnam war resisters who were the \"largest, best-educated group this country had ever received.\" Despite denials by the current Conservative minority administration, the government of Canada's own historians have correctly recounted that this group included both draft-dodgers and deserters.In 2008, after the first vote by parliament directing our government to stop deporting Iraq war resisters and fairly consider their requests for permanent resident status, nearly two thirds of Canadians surveyed by Angus Reid (PDF) agreed with parliament's decision. Since then, resisters Robin Long and Cliff Cornell were forced back to the US. With interviews about their political and moral opposition to the war that aired on CBC and CNN used as evidence against them, they were court-martialled for desertion and imprisoned for longer terms than some soldiers who have been convicted of rape.Back in 2003, Stephen Harper, as leader of the opposition, went on Fox News to endorse Bush's criminal war plans and assert that, were he prime minister, he would send Canadians to Iraq. At the same time, hundreds of thousands marched in the streets across Canada condemning the war before it even started. Canadians convinced the government of the day to make the right judgment. Fast-forward to our last federal election two years ago, and even Harper admitted the Iraq war was \"absolutely an error\".On Wednesday, Bill C-440 \u2013 an act to amend the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (war resisters) \u2013 will be voted on at second reading. If passed, it will give the force of law to parliament's clear direction and effect to the will of the majority of Canadians that accepting Iraq war resisters is the right thing to do.This bill should not be necessary, as parliament and a majority of Canadians have said they want Iraq war resisters to stay. But this legislation is necessary, because these resisters still face harsh punishment if returned to the US for refusing to be part of a war that never should have happened. Its adoption by the house of commons and senate would be a victory for the very democracy that Iraq war proponents have tried to mislead the world into believing was their goal.", "tags": ["Canada", "Iraq", "Barack Obama", "Stephen Harper", "Human rights", "War crimes", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada wants US war resisters to stay | Paul Copeland"},{"date": "2010-09-14T13:01:15Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's immigration minister Jason Kenney has come under sustained criticism from lawyers representing migrants after his sudden change to visa rules in June made it obligatory for skilled workers from English- and French-speaking countries to prove that they are competent in one of those languages before they are allowed to settle.Applicants who could provide documentary proof of schooling in English or French medium countries were not required to sit either the Ielts test of English or the Test d'Evaluation de Fran\u00e7ais, but the rule change removes that exemption.David Matas, a spokesman for the Canadian Bar Association, called the change arbitrary and a violation of applicants' rights.\"What [the minister] is doing is taking a power over processing and using it, in effect, to amend the law,\" Matas told The Globe and Mail newspaper. \"It gives me a good deal of concern and isn't just about language testing or immigration. It's the sort of power that, if accepted, would wreak havoc with all our laws.\"Other critics said it would delay applications and add extra costs for up to 30,000 migrants from English- or French-speaking countries.A ministerial spokeswoman said the change was necessary because non-native English or French speakers often used the documentation option and visa officers found it difficult to assess their abilities.Meanwhile, Canada's National Post newspaper reported that eight members of the Afghan military, wanted in the US after going awol from an English language training course at an air force base in Texas, are seeking refugee status in Canada.Japan schools look forward to business-English boostJapan's beleaguered English language training sector is hopeful that a trend among Japanese companies to make English their official in\u2011house language, in a bid to internationalise their businesses, will create new demand for classes.Rakuten, Japan's biggest online retailer, plans to make English the firm's official language, while Fast Retailing, operator of the Uniqlo clothing chain, wants to make English more common in its offices by 2012 and plans to test its employees. The company hopes overseas sales will eventually account for 70% of its online sales and staff will be expected to master English by 2012 or face the sack. \"No English, no job,\" Rakuten CEO Hiroshi Mikitani said.Japanese carmakers Toyota and Nissan have also announced moves to increase the use of English.Fast Retailing will not provide English classes for staff. \"How [employees] choose to meet these expectations is a personal choice,\" Daisuke Hase, a spokesman for Fast Retailing told Reuters.Beijing seeks to build on Olympic foundationsResidents of Beijing are under renewed pressure to learn English as part of an official drive to make the Chinese capital into a \"world city\".A recently relaunched government programme, which started in 2002 in preparation for the Beijing Olympics, calls for all preschools in the city to introduce English courses within five years.According to local press reports, a minimum of 60% of shop assistants, receptionists and hairdressers under 40 will also be required to pass English tests by 2015, as will 80% of police officers.Every civil servant under the age of 40 with a bachelor's degree will also be required to master a minimum of 1,000 English sentences.Max de Lotbini\u00e8remax.delotbiniere@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Education"], "title": "Canada tests language of all migrant skilled workers | Education"},{"date": "2010-09-02T15:36:59Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Near the end of Scott Pilgrim Vs the World, Comeau, the guy who \"knows everybody\", can be overheard having a conversation about which is better, the movie or the comic book. Lest I be out-meta'ed, then, let me carefully sidestep the issue of whether Bryan Lee O'Malley's graphic novel is superior to its big screen adaptation (or vice versa) and just say this: Hollywood nimbly dodged a fireball and landed a 64-punch combo by staying so true to Scott Pilgrim's strange, funny and very deep-rooted Canadianness.Which is not an easy thing to define. A surefire dinner party conversation starter with Canadians (and a quick way to send everyone else home early) is to ask: \"But what ... exactly does it mean to be Canadian?\" Try it. If you come up with anything other than single-tier universal healthcare, ice hockey and a sort of vague licentiousness, I have a 1kg bottle of Quebec Medium No 1 maple syrup with your name on it.But Scott Pilgrim has Canada \u2013 or at least Toronto \u2013 down. It nails the city's confident but self-conscious sense of humour, the love of bad puns (\"I was just a little bi-curious!\" \"Well honey, I'm a little bi-furious\"), the self-deprecating jokes (\"What's the website for Amazon.ca?\"), and the very malleability of being Canadian (\"When I'm around you, I kind of feel like I'm on drugs. Not that I do drugs. Unless you do drugs, in which case I do them all the time.\")Many Canadians feel towards their country exactly what the Scott Pilgrim comic/film feels towards its protagonist: fond contempt. Not taking yourself too seriously seems to be key when you're lying in bed with a cultural elephant that could not only squash you, but doesn't even know you're there.This wary jokiness about America is also a key element of the plot. In search of bigger US box office takings, Edgar Wright could well have set Scott Pilgrim in, say, Seattle, but only at the expense of the comic's wonderfully pitched attitude towards the States.Scott's love interest, Ramona Flowers, is an American, and so is the No 1 big boss ex-boyfriend, music promoter Gideon. The latter makes various disparaging remarks about Canada, but Scott (or, as Ramona calls him in the comic, \"Canada boy\"), fights right back: \"You're pretentious, this club sucks, I have beef. Let's fight.\"With a light touch, the film captures Toronto's paradoxical, smug inferiority towards the US, and specifically New York. Torontonians know they're less important, less powerful and generally less stylish than New Yorkers, but take a perverse pride in not caring. It shows off what I've always loved about Toronto: its beautiful marriage of big-city sheen and quiet, empty, snow-muffled desolation. Toronto is a romantic city, especially in winter, especially if you take romance with a grain of salt. If you can set a romcom in coffee chains in Seattle, it's about time we had one on snowy park swings at midnight.Not all film adaptations are as faithful to setting \u2013 with often disastrous results. Fever Pitch transposed Nick Hornby's novel about his solitary, girl-free obsession with Arsenal into a romcom starring Jimmy Fallon as a Boston Red Sox fan. The US remake of the Australian comedy Kath and Kim inexplicably made the two characters educated, middle class and attractive, thus inherently negating the \"bogan\" hilarity of the original.Also, in its American, Richard Gere-led incarnation, Shall We Dance? was an embarrassing misstep. This makes sense when you understand that what made the original Japanese film a hit is that ballroom dancing, and the public male-female physical interaction it requires, is fairly taboo in Japan.But my vote for worst locale-changing in film goes to U571. This ping-and-periscope schlock about the boarding of a German U-boat in the second world war had the gall to state it was American submarine officers who captured the famous Enigma cipher machine from the Nazis, thus changing the course of the war and helping to defeat Hitler. It was, of course, British naval officers who captured the first Enigma, not to mention British codebreakers at Bletchley Park, led by Alan Turing (British), who cracked its secrets. The movie's only saving grace is that Jon Bon Jovi gets swept overboard.U571's setting crimes may soon be dwarfed, however, if rumours of a live-action Akira set in Manhattan, rather than nuclear-afeared Tokyo, are true. (See this artist's rendering of Akira USA for further evidence.) But that's just my precious little Canadian opinion. Let's hear your votes: know any Fear & Loathing in Enfields I haven't mentioned?", "tags": ["Film", "Action and adventure", "Edgar Wright", "Canada", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Location location location: Scott Pilgrim's love letter to Canada"},{"date": "2010-09-07T15:58:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The arrival off the west coast of Canada of a rusty boat containing nearly 500 exhausted Sri Lankan Tamil asylum seekers has sparked an angry debate about racism that has divided national opinion.The merchant vessel Sun Sea limped, under escort, into Esquimalt naval base in British Columbia on 13 August after a four month voyage from Songkhla in Thailand. The passengers spoke of grim conditions. One man died during the journey and was buried at sea.\"It is a miracle that they survived,\" David Poopalapillai of the Canadian Tamil Congress (CTC) told the Guardian. \"The boat is very primitive, you wouldn't even go out fishing in it.\" He ascribed their survival to the fact that they had been living for many months in very hostile conditions in Sri Lanka.The 380 men and 63 women are being held in detention centres near Vancouver. The 49 children on board are with their mothers although not officially detained. Hearings into whether the Tamils can be released while applications for refugee status are processed are due to start tomorrow .Even before the boat reached Canada, it had stirred up controversy. The Conservative prime minister, Stephen Harper, described the vessel as \"abnormal\", claimed that it created security concerns and warned that he could seek a change in the law to deal with similar arrivals. Canada's public safety minister, Vic Toews, said that it could contain members of the Tamil Tigers and that it was a \"test ship ... part of a broader organised criminal enterprise\".The government has been accused of scaremongering by the opposition, immigration lawyers and refugee groups. The Liberal party leader, Michael Ignatieff, criticised suggestions that the boat should have been turned away, as happened to similar vessels approaching Australia. He said during a recent political rally in Winnipeg: \"This is Canada, not Australia. That means Canada has principles, the charter of rights and freedoms, our international obligations.\"Canada has a long history of welcoming refugees, from 200,000 Hungarians who fled after the failed 1956 uprising to more than 100,000 US draft resisters who crossed into Canada during the Vietnam war. There were also darker times; coincidentally, last week, details were announced of a monument to commemorate the St Louis, a ship carrying Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany in 1939 which was turned away by the Canadian government. Many of its 900 passengers subsequently died in concentration camps.Lorne Waldman, the lawyer representing more than 50 of the asylum seekers, told the Guardian that before the boat landed the tone was set. \"From the get-go, it was suggested that there were criminals and terrorists aboard,\" he said. \"The Sri Lankan government has a huge interest in portraying them this way rather than as victims of a genocidal civil war. Some of those on board are victims of torture and have shrapnel wounds.\"Waldman, who represented a smaller number of Tamils who arrived last October on another boat, the Ocean Lady, said that terrorist claims had been made then but none substantiated.Professor Rohan Gunaratna, who is advising the Canadian government, said, in an email from his home in Singapore, that the Tamil Tigers had \"decided to regroup in Canada where (they) have traditionally raised funds and lobbied politicians that depended on the migrant-diaspora vote.\" He claimed there was evidence that the Tamil Tigers had organised the voyage.An opinion poll last month indicated that a majority of Canadians wanted the Tamils to be sent back.\"Why such rage directed at such a minuscule group?\" asked columnist Stephen Hume in the Vancouver Sun. \"Perhaps it's because they aren't white ... How we respond to a few Tamils seeking safety and a future for their children says far more about us than it does about them. And what it says so far is rather distasteful.\"This provoked a furious reaction. \"Gee, could it be that we are sick of being played for Patsies?\" was one of the milder responses from readers. \"You might sing a different song if your community was flooded with Hindus, Vietnamese, etc who brought such worthy skills with them as drive-by shootings, drug wars, murder of their own wives and daughters,\" read another.Poopalapillai, of the CTC, which represents about 200,000 Tamils, mainly in the Toronto area, blamed the Sri Lankan government for raising the spectre of terrorism. \"If there are any undesirable residents, put them through due process,\" he said. \"Most of these folks went through persecution and hostile conditions. The only thing they had in their mind was to save their lives.\" Of the opinion poll, he said: \"Canada is a very compassionate country but people were not very well informed at the time this poll was taken.\"A government spokeswoman said that the average process time for refugee status was 21 months but the hearings this week could lead to the conditional release of at least some of the asylum seekers once their identities had been established.", "tags": ["Canada", "Refugees", "Sri Lanka", "World news", "Americas", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Sri Lankan Tamil refugees spark racism row in Canada"},{"date": "2010-08-24T11:31:31Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Alexander the Great's bare bottom is keeping a highly-praised debut novel off shelves in Canada.Annabel Lyon's The Golden Mean is the story of Alexander's childhood, told through the eyes of his tutor Aristotle. Praised as \"a triumph of erudition and story-telling\" by The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas author John Boyne and shortlisted for Canada's top literary award, the Giller prize, it was published last year in Canada and is just out in the UK where the Financial Times has admired its \"eerie earthiness\".But apparently its jacket \u2013 featuring a naked man lying on the back of an equally naked white horse \u2013 is offensive to some. Although stores across Canada and the UK are selling the book, Lyons revealed on her blog that British Columbia ferry company BC Ferries is not stocking it \"since the trade paperback still features a bare bum on the cover\".BC Ferries said it had told the book's publisher, Random House Canada, that it would carry the book if it featured a \"belly band\" wrapped around the offending parts \"because we're obviously a 'family show' and we've got children in our gift shops\". But Random House refused, and the transportation company decided against stocking the title.\"While some people might think it's art or appropriate or whatever, parents of young people might not think it's appropriate for young children to view,\" BC Ferries spokesperson Deborah Marshall told Canadian paper the Province.Lyon, the author of two previous short story collections, has refused to take the decision to heart. \"Oh, BC Ferries. You have one too, you know you do!\" she wrote on her blog.", "tags": ["Books", "Fiction", "Censorship", "Canada", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Alexander the Great novel gets bum rap in Canada"},{"date": "2010-09-29T15:38:20Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Based on US President Barack Obama's 31 August pronouncement and the uncritical TV news coverage of it, it might be reasonable to believe that the Iraq war is over. The frustrating truth, however, is that for the Iraqi people, for American soldiers who continue to be deployed to Iraq, and for those US soldiers who refused to take part in the war and sought refuge in Canada, the facts are very different.Tom Kent, the Associated Press's deputy managing editor for standards and production, explained it best in a memo to the journalists working for his internationally respected news organisation earlier this month:\"To begin with, combat in Iraq is not over, and we should not uncritically repeat suggestions that it is, even if they come from senior officials. The situation on the ground in Iraq is no different today than it has been for some months.\"As for US involvement, it also goes too far to say that the US part in the conflict in Iraq is over. President Obama said Monday night that 'the American combat mission in Iraq has ended. Operation Iraqi Freedom is over, and the Iraqi people now have lead responsibility for the security of their country.'\"However, 50,000 American troops remain in country. Our own reporting on the ground confirms that some of these troops, especially some 4,500 special operations forces, continue to be directly engaged in military operations. These troops are accompanying Iraqi soldiers into battle with militant groups and may well fire and be fired on.\"In addition, although administration spokesmen say we are now at the tail end of American involvement and all troops will be gone by the end of 2011, there is no guarantee that this will be the case.\"For many, particularly the families mourning the more than 100,000 documented Iraqi civilian deaths caused by this unnecessary war, it is not possible simply to declare the lies, violence and misery resolved.There is also the persistent matter of how and why this ongoing war was started. The Bush and Blair duo's purposeful communication of false evidence of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) continues to be important because the N\u00fcremberg military tribunals, which followed the horrors of the second world war, determined that:\"To initiate a war of aggression\u2026 is not only an international crime; it is the supreme international crime differing only from other war crimes in that it contains within itself the accumulated evil of the whole.\"US Iraq war veteran Rodney Watson marked the first full year of sanctuary in Vancouver's First United Church on 18 September because he refuses to be jailed while those responsible for sending him into an illegal war remain free to write books and profit from their crimes. Rodney and an estimated 200 other US Iraq war resisters came to Canada seeking refuge in a country that came to the same conclusion about the Iraq war as they did. They have, instead, found themselves threatened by our government with deportation and harsh punishment by the US military.This past July, the federal court of appeal ruled that the request by Jeremy Hinzman \u2013 the first Iraq war resister to come to Canada \u2013 for permanent resident status based on humanitarian and compassionate grounds must be sent back for reconsideration by a different immigration officer. The court unanimously found (PDF) that the first review of his case was \"significantly flawed\" and \"unreasonable\", sending the message that officials can no longer ignore the sincerely held moral, political and religious beliefs that motivated these conscientious soldiers to become war resisters.Canada has a proud tradition of accepting war resisters, which extends all the way back to the United Empire Loyalists. During the 1960s and early 1970s, we welcomed more than 50,000 Vietnam war resisters who were the \"largest, best-educated group this country had ever received.\" Despite denials by the current Conservative minority administration, the government of Canada's own historians have correctly recounted that this group included both draft-dodgers and deserters.In 2008, after the first vote by parliament directing our government to stop deporting Iraq war resisters and fairly consider their requests for permanent resident status, nearly two thirds of Canadians surveyed by Angus Reid (PDF) agreed with parliament's decision. Since then, resisters Robin Long and Cliff Cornell were forced back to the US. With interviews about their political and moral opposition to the war that aired on CBC and CNN used as evidence against them, they were court-martialled for desertion and imprisoned for longer terms than some soldiers who have been convicted of rape.Back in 2003, Stephen Harper, as leader of the opposition, went on Fox News to endorse Bush's criminal war plans and assert that, were he prime minister, he would send Canadians to Iraq. At the same time, hundreds of thousands marched in the streets across Canada condemning the war before it even started. Canadians convinced the government of the day to make the right judgment. Fast-forward to our last federal election two years ago, and even Harper admitted the Iraq war was \"absolutely an error\".On Wednesday, Bill C-440 \u2013 an act to amend the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (war resisters) \u2013 will be voted on at second reading. If passed, it will give the force of law to parliament's clear direction and effect to the will of the majority of Canadians that accepting Iraq war resisters is the right thing to do.This bill should not be necessary, as parliament and a majority of Canadians have said they want Iraq war resisters to stay. But this legislation is necessary, because these resisters still face harsh punishment if returned to the US for refusing to be part of a war that never should have happened. Its adoption by the house of commons and senate would be a victory for the very democracy that Iraq war proponents have tried to mislead the world into believing was their goal.", "tags": ["Canada", "Iraq", "Barack Obama", "Stephen Harper", "Human rights", "War crimes", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada wants US war resisters to stay | Paul Copeland"},{"date": "2010-09-14T13:01:15Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's immigration minister Jason Kenney has come under sustained criticism from lawyers representing migrants after his sudden change to visa rules in June made it obligatory for skilled workers from English- and French-speaking countries to prove that they are competent in one of those languages before they are allowed to settle.Applicants who could provide documentary proof of schooling in English or French medium countries were not required to sit either the Ielts test of English or the Test d'Evaluation de Fran\u00e7ais, but the rule change removes that exemption.David Matas, a spokesman for the Canadian Bar Association, called the change arbitrary and a violation of applicants' rights.\"What [the minister] is doing is taking a power over processing and using it, in effect, to amend the law,\" Matas told The Globe and Mail newspaper. \"It gives me a good deal of concern and isn't just about language testing or immigration. It's the sort of power that, if accepted, would wreak havoc with all our laws.\"Other critics said it would delay applications and add extra costs for up to 30,000 migrants from English- or French-speaking countries.A ministerial spokeswoman said the change was necessary because non-native English or French speakers often used the documentation option and visa officers found it difficult to assess their abilities.Meanwhile, Canada's National Post newspaper reported that eight members of the Afghan military, wanted in the US after going awol from an English language training course at an air force base in Texas, are seeking refugee status in Canada.Japan schools look forward to business-English boostJapan's beleaguered English language training sector is hopeful that a trend among Japanese companies to make English their official in\u2011house language, in a bid to internationalise their businesses, will create new demand for classes.Rakuten, Japan's biggest online retailer, plans to make English the firm's official language, while Fast Retailing, operator of the Uniqlo clothing chain, wants to make English more common in its offices by 2012 and plans to test its employees. The company hopes overseas sales will eventually account for 70% of its online sales and staff will be expected to master English by 2012 or face the sack. \"No English, no job,\" Rakuten CEO Hiroshi Mikitani said.Japanese carmakers Toyota and Nissan have also announced moves to increase the use of English.Fast Retailing will not provide English classes for staff. \"How [employees] choose to meet these expectations is a personal choice,\" Daisuke Hase, a spokesman for Fast Retailing told Reuters.Beijing seeks to build on Olympic foundationsResidents of Beijing are under renewed pressure to learn English as part of an official drive to make the Chinese capital into a \"world city\".A recently relaunched government programme, which started in 2002 in preparation for the Beijing Olympics, calls for all preschools in the city to introduce English courses within five years.According to local press reports, a minimum of 60% of shop assistants, receptionists and hairdressers under 40 will also be required to pass English tests by 2015, as will 80% of police officers.Every civil servant under the age of 40 with a bachelor's degree will also be required to master a minimum of 1,000 English sentences.Max de Lotbini\u00e8remax.delotbiniere@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Education"], "title": "Canada tests language of all migrant skilled workers | Education"},{"date": "2010-09-02T15:36:59Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Near the end of Scott Pilgrim Vs the World, Comeau, the guy who \"knows everybody\", can be overheard having a conversation about which is better, the movie or the comic book. Lest I be out-meta'ed, then, let me carefully sidestep the issue of whether Bryan Lee O'Malley's graphic novel is superior to its big screen adaptation (or vice versa) and just say this: Hollywood nimbly dodged a fireball and landed a 64-punch combo by staying so true to Scott Pilgrim's strange, funny and very deep-rooted Canadianness.Which is not an easy thing to define. A surefire dinner party conversation starter with Canadians (and a quick way to send everyone else home early) is to ask: \"But what ... exactly does it mean to be Canadian?\" Try it. If you come up with anything other than single-tier universal healthcare, ice hockey and a sort of vague licentiousness, I have a 1kg bottle of Quebec Medium No 1 maple syrup with your name on it.But Scott Pilgrim has Canada \u2013 or at least Toronto \u2013 down. It nails the city's confident but self-conscious sense of humour, the love of bad puns (\"I was just a little bi-curious!\" \"Well honey, I'm a little bi-furious\"), the self-deprecating jokes (\"What's the website for Amazon.ca?\"), and the very malleability of being Canadian (\"When I'm around you, I kind of feel like I'm on drugs. Not that I do drugs. Unless you do drugs, in which case I do them all the time.\")Many Canadians feel towards their country exactly what the Scott Pilgrim comic/film feels towards its protagonist: fond contempt. Not taking yourself too seriously seems to be key when you're lying in bed with a cultural elephant that could not only squash you, but doesn't even know you're there.This wary jokiness about America is also a key element of the plot. In search of bigger US box office takings, Edgar Wright could well have set Scott Pilgrim in, say, Seattle, but only at the expense of the comic's wonderfully pitched attitude towards the States.Scott's love interest, Ramona Flowers, is an American, and so is the No 1 big boss ex-boyfriend, music promoter Gideon. The latter makes various disparaging remarks about Canada, but Scott (or, as Ramona calls him in the comic, \"Canada boy\"), fights right back: \"You're pretentious, this club sucks, I have beef. Let's fight.\"With a light touch, the film captures Toronto's paradoxical, smug inferiority towards the US, and specifically New York. Torontonians know they're less important, less powerful and generally less stylish than New Yorkers, but take a perverse pride in not caring. It shows off what I've always loved about Toronto: its beautiful marriage of big-city sheen and quiet, empty, snow-muffled desolation. Toronto is a romantic city, especially in winter, especially if you take romance with a grain of salt. If you can set a romcom in coffee chains in Seattle, it's about time we had one on snowy park swings at midnight.Not all film adaptations are as faithful to setting \u2013 with often disastrous results. Fever Pitch transposed Nick Hornby's novel about his solitary, girl-free obsession with Arsenal into a romcom starring Jimmy Fallon as a Boston Red Sox fan. The US remake of the Australian comedy Kath and Kim inexplicably made the two characters educated, middle class and attractive, thus inherently negating the \"bogan\" hilarity of the original.Also, in its American, Richard Gere-led incarnation, Shall We Dance? was an embarrassing misstep. This makes sense when you understand that what made the original Japanese film a hit is that ballroom dancing, and the public male-female physical interaction it requires, is fairly taboo in Japan.But my vote for worst locale-changing in film goes to U571. This ping-and-periscope schlock about the boarding of a German U-boat in the second world war had the gall to state it was American submarine officers who captured the famous Enigma cipher machine from the Nazis, thus changing the course of the war and helping to defeat Hitler. It was, of course, British naval officers who captured the first Enigma, not to mention British codebreakers at Bletchley Park, led by Alan Turing (British), who cracked its secrets. The movie's only saving grace is that Jon Bon Jovi gets swept overboard.U571's setting crimes may soon be dwarfed, however, if rumours of a live-action Akira set in Manhattan, rather than nuclear-afeared Tokyo, are true. (See this artist's rendering of Akira USA for further evidence.) But that's just my precious little Canadian opinion. Let's hear your votes: know any Fear & Loathing in Enfields I haven't mentioned?", "tags": ["Film", "Action and adventure", "Edgar Wright", "Canada", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Location location location: Scott Pilgrim's love letter to Canada"},{"date": "2010-09-07T15:58:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The arrival off the west coast of Canada of a rusty boat containing nearly 500 exhausted Sri Lankan Tamil asylum seekers has sparked an angry debate about racism that has divided national opinion.The merchant vessel Sun Sea limped, under escort, into Esquimalt naval base in British Columbia on 13 August after a four month voyage from Songkhla in Thailand. The passengers spoke of grim conditions. One man died during the journey and was buried at sea.\"It is a miracle that they survived,\" David Poopalapillai of the Canadian Tamil Congress (CTC) told the Guardian. \"The boat is very primitive, you wouldn't even go out fishing in it.\" He ascribed their survival to the fact that they had been living for many months in very hostile conditions in Sri Lanka.The 380 men and 63 women are being held in detention centres near Vancouver. The 49 children on board are with their mothers although not officially detained. Hearings into whether the Tamils can be released while applications for refugee status are processed are due to start tomorrow .Even before the boat reached Canada, it had stirred up controversy. The Conservative prime minister, Stephen Harper, described the vessel as \"abnormal\", claimed that it created security concerns and warned that he could seek a change in the law to deal with similar arrivals. Canada's public safety minister, Vic Toews, said that it could contain members of the Tamil Tigers and that it was a \"test ship ... part of a broader organised criminal enterprise\".The government has been accused of scaremongering by the opposition, immigration lawyers and refugee groups. The Liberal party leader, Michael Ignatieff, criticised suggestions that the boat should have been turned away, as happened to similar vessels approaching Australia. He said during a recent political rally in Winnipeg: \"This is Canada, not Australia. That means Canada has principles, the charter of rights and freedoms, our international obligations.\"Canada has a long history of welcoming refugees, from 200,000 Hungarians who fled after the failed 1956 uprising to more than 100,000 US draft resisters who crossed into Canada during the Vietnam war. There were also darker times; coincidentally, last week, details were announced of a monument to commemorate the St Louis, a ship carrying Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany in 1939 which was turned away by the Canadian government. Many of its 900 passengers subsequently died in concentration camps.Lorne Waldman, the lawyer representing more than 50 of the asylum seekers, told the Guardian that before the boat landed the tone was set. \"From the get-go, it was suggested that there were criminals and terrorists aboard,\" he said. \"The Sri Lankan government has a huge interest in portraying them this way rather than as victims of a genocidal civil war. Some of those on board are victims of torture and have shrapnel wounds.\"Waldman, who represented a smaller number of Tamils who arrived last October on another boat, the Ocean Lady, said that terrorist claims had been made then but none substantiated.Professor Rohan Gunaratna, who is advising the Canadian government, said, in an email from his home in Singapore, that the Tamil Tigers had \"decided to regroup in Canada where (they) have traditionally raised funds and lobbied politicians that depended on the migrant-diaspora vote.\" He claimed there was evidence that the Tamil Tigers had organised the voyage.An opinion poll last month indicated that a majority of Canadians wanted the Tamils to be sent back.\"Why such rage directed at such a minuscule group?\" asked columnist Stephen Hume in the Vancouver Sun. \"Perhaps it's because they aren't white ... How we respond to a few Tamils seeking safety and a future for their children says far more about us than it does about them. And what it says so far is rather distasteful.\"This provoked a furious reaction. \"Gee, could it be that we are sick of being played for Patsies?\" was one of the milder responses from readers. \"You might sing a different song if your community was flooded with Hindus, Vietnamese, etc who brought such worthy skills with them as drive-by shootings, drug wars, murder of their own wives and daughters,\" read another.Poopalapillai, of the CTC, which represents about 200,000 Tamils, mainly in the Toronto area, blamed the Sri Lankan government for raising the spectre of terrorism. \"If there are any undesirable residents, put them through due process,\" he said. \"Most of these folks went through persecution and hostile conditions. The only thing they had in their mind was to save their lives.\" Of the opinion poll, he said: \"Canada is a very compassionate country but people were not very well informed at the time this poll was taken.\"A government spokeswoman said that the average process time for refugee status was 21 months but the hearings this week could lead to the conditional release of at least some of the asylum seekers once their identities had been established.", "tags": ["Canada", "Refugees", "Sri Lanka", "World news", "Americas", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Sri Lankan Tamil refugees spark racism row in Canada"},{"date": "2010-08-24T11:31:31Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Alexander the Great's bare bottom is keeping a highly-praised debut novel off shelves in Canada.Annabel Lyon's The Golden Mean is the story of Alexander's childhood, told through the eyes of his tutor Aristotle. Praised as \"a triumph of erudition and story-telling\" by The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas author John Boyne and shortlisted for Canada's top literary award, the Giller prize, it was published last year in Canada and is just out in the UK where the Financial Times has admired its \"eerie earthiness\".But apparently its jacket \u2013 featuring a naked man lying on the back of an equally naked white horse \u2013 is offensive to some. Although stores across Canada and the UK are selling the book, Lyons revealed on her blog that British Columbia ferry company BC Ferries is not stocking it \"since the trade paperback still features a bare bum on the cover\".BC Ferries said it had told the book's publisher, Random House Canada, that it would carry the book if it featured a \"belly band\" wrapped around the offending parts \"because we're obviously a 'family show' and we've got children in our gift shops\". But Random House refused, and the transportation company decided against stocking the title.\"While some people might think it's art or appropriate or whatever, parents of young people might not think it's appropriate for young children to view,\" BC Ferries spokesperson Deborah Marshall told Canadian paper the Province.Lyon, the author of two previous short story collections, has refused to take the decision to heart. \"Oh, BC Ferries. You have one too, you know you do!\" she wrote on her blog.", "tags": ["Books", "Fiction", "Censorship", "Canada", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Alexander the Great novel gets bum rap in Canada"},{"date": "2010-08-18T01:12:50Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Mazda is recalling more than 300,000 cars in the US, Canada and Mexico, warning that problems with their power steering could lead to crashes.The company said repairs were needed to Mazda3 and Mazda5 models built from April 2007 to November 2008, faults that were put right a year ago in Japan. About 215,000 of the cars involved were sold in the US.Mazda said the vehicles could have a sudden loss of power-steering, making it difficult for the driver to steer and increasing the risk of a crash.The US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration opened an investigation into steering problems in 2007-2009 Mazda3s in June, citing 33 complaints alleging steering problems, including three crashes.Mazda told the agency last week it was first informed of similar steering problems in Japan in March 2008 and the company began its own investigation in July 2008.By summer 2009, it had found that the problem was caused by rust forming inside a high-pressure pipe in the power steering system. Rust particles could then enter the power steering pump and cause it to shut down to avoid overheating.An \"improvement campaign\" last summer to repair vehicles was organised in Japan \"due to a high occurrence rate of this problem,\" according to the company's letter to the US agency. It did not issue a recall in North America, instead issuing a technical service bulletin to dealers since the \"occurrence rate was low\". That included repair procedures for customers who reported steering problems.Mazda told NHTSA in the letter that in the spring of 2010, \"we realised the occurrence rate was increasing in the North American market and then we began to study further field action for the market.\"The Mazda action follows trouble with Toyotas in the US, although preliminary findings by the US government suggest the sticking accelerators that prompted a recall might have often been caused by driver error.", "tags": ["Automotive industry", "US news", "Toyota", "Road transport", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Mazda recalls 300,000 cars in US, Canada and Mexico"},{"date": "2010-09-29T15:38:20Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Based on US President Barack Obama's 31 August pronouncement and the uncritical TV news coverage of it, it might be reasonable to believe that the Iraq war is over. The frustrating truth, however, is that for the Iraqi people, for American soldiers who continue to be deployed to Iraq, and for those US soldiers who refused to take part in the war and sought refuge in Canada, the facts are very different.Tom Kent, the Associated Press's deputy managing editor for standards and production, explained it best in a memo to the journalists working for his internationally respected news organisation earlier this month:\"To begin with, combat in Iraq is not over, and we should not uncritically repeat suggestions that it is, even if they come from senior officials. The situation on the ground in Iraq is no different today than it has been for some months.\"As for US involvement, it also goes too far to say that the US part in the conflict in Iraq is over. President Obama said Monday night that 'the American combat mission in Iraq has ended. Operation Iraqi Freedom is over, and the Iraqi people now have lead responsibility for the security of their country.'\"However, 50,000 American troops remain in country. Our own reporting on the ground confirms that some of these troops, especially some 4,500 special operations forces, continue to be directly engaged in military operations. These troops are accompanying Iraqi soldiers into battle with militant groups and may well fire and be fired on.\"In addition, although administration spokesmen say we are now at the tail end of American involvement and all troops will be gone by the end of 2011, there is no guarantee that this will be the case.\"For many, particularly the families mourning the more than 100,000 documented Iraqi civilian deaths caused by this unnecessary war, it is not possible simply to declare the lies, violence and misery resolved.There is also the persistent matter of how and why this ongoing war was started. The Bush and Blair duo's purposeful communication of false evidence of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) continues to be important because the N\u00fcremberg military tribunals, which followed the horrors of the second world war, determined that:\"To initiate a war of aggression\u2026 is not only an international crime; it is the supreme international crime differing only from other war crimes in that it contains within itself the accumulated evil of the whole.\"US Iraq war veteran Rodney Watson marked the first full year of sanctuary in Vancouver's First United Church on 18 September because he refuses to be jailed while those responsible for sending him into an illegal war remain free to write books and profit from their crimes. Rodney and an estimated 200 other US Iraq war resisters came to Canada seeking refuge in a country that came to the same conclusion about the Iraq war as they did. They have, instead, found themselves threatened by our government with deportation and harsh punishment by the US military.This past July, the federal court of appeal ruled that the request by Jeremy Hinzman \u2013 the first Iraq war resister to come to Canada \u2013 for permanent resident status based on humanitarian and compassionate grounds must be sent back for reconsideration by a different immigration officer. The court unanimously found (PDF) that the first review of his case was \"significantly flawed\" and \"unreasonable\", sending the message that officials can no longer ignore the sincerely held moral, political and religious beliefs that motivated these conscientious soldiers to become war resisters.Canada has a proud tradition of accepting war resisters, which extends all the way back to the United Empire Loyalists. During the 1960s and early 1970s, we welcomed more than 50,000 Vietnam war resisters who were the \"largest, best-educated group this country had ever received.\" Despite denials by the current Conservative minority administration, the government of Canada's own historians have correctly recounted that this group included both draft-dodgers and deserters.In 2008, after the first vote by parliament directing our government to stop deporting Iraq war resisters and fairly consider their requests for permanent resident status, nearly two thirds of Canadians surveyed by Angus Reid (PDF) agreed with parliament's decision. Since then, resisters Robin Long and Cliff Cornell were forced back to the US. With interviews about their political and moral opposition to the war that aired on CBC and CNN used as evidence against them, they were court-martialled for desertion and imprisoned for longer terms than some soldiers who have been convicted of rape.Back in 2003, Stephen Harper, as leader of the opposition, went on Fox News to endorse Bush's criminal war plans and assert that, were he prime minister, he would send Canadians to Iraq. At the same time, hundreds of thousands marched in the streets across Canada condemning the war before it even started. Canadians convinced the government of the day to make the right judgment. Fast-forward to our last federal election two years ago, and even Harper admitted the Iraq war was \"absolutely an error\".On Wednesday, Bill C-440 \u2013 an act to amend the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (war resisters) \u2013 will be voted on at second reading. If passed, it will give the force of law to parliament's clear direction and effect to the will of the majority of Canadians that accepting Iraq war resisters is the right thing to do.This bill should not be necessary, as parliament and a majority of Canadians have said they want Iraq war resisters to stay. But this legislation is necessary, because these resisters still face harsh punishment if returned to the US for refusing to be part of a war that never should have happened. Its adoption by the house of commons and senate would be a victory for the very democracy that Iraq war proponents have tried to mislead the world into believing was their goal.", "tags": ["Canada", "Iraq", "Barack Obama", "Stephen Harper", "Human rights", "War crimes", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada wants US war resisters to stay | Paul Copeland"},{"date": "2010-09-14T13:01:15Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's immigration minister Jason Kenney has come under sustained criticism from lawyers representing migrants after his sudden change to visa rules in June made it obligatory for skilled workers from English- and French-speaking countries to prove that they are competent in one of those languages before they are allowed to settle.Applicants who could provide documentary proof of schooling in English or French medium countries were not required to sit either the Ielts test of English or the Test d'Evaluation de Fran\u00e7ais, but the rule change removes that exemption.David Matas, a spokesman for the Canadian Bar Association, called the change arbitrary and a violation of applicants' rights.\"What [the minister] is doing is taking a power over processing and using it, in effect, to amend the law,\" Matas told The Globe and Mail newspaper. \"It gives me a good deal of concern and isn't just about language testing or immigration. It's the sort of power that, if accepted, would wreak havoc with all our laws.\"Other critics said it would delay applications and add extra costs for up to 30,000 migrants from English- or French-speaking countries.A ministerial spokeswoman said the change was necessary because non-native English or French speakers often used the documentation option and visa officers found it difficult to assess their abilities.Meanwhile, Canada's National Post newspaper reported that eight members of the Afghan military, wanted in the US after going awol from an English language training course at an air force base in Texas, are seeking refugee status in Canada.Japan schools look forward to business-English boostJapan's beleaguered English language training sector is hopeful that a trend among Japanese companies to make English their official in\u2011house language, in a bid to internationalise their businesses, will create new demand for classes.Rakuten, Japan's biggest online retailer, plans to make English the firm's official language, while Fast Retailing, operator of the Uniqlo clothing chain, wants to make English more common in its offices by 2012 and plans to test its employees. The company hopes overseas sales will eventually account for 70% of its online sales and staff will be expected to master English by 2012 or face the sack. \"No English, no job,\" Rakuten CEO Hiroshi Mikitani said.Japanese carmakers Toyota and Nissan have also announced moves to increase the use of English.Fast Retailing will not provide English classes for staff. \"How [employees] choose to meet these expectations is a personal choice,\" Daisuke Hase, a spokesman for Fast Retailing told Reuters.Beijing seeks to build on Olympic foundationsResidents of Beijing are under renewed pressure to learn English as part of an official drive to make the Chinese capital into a \"world city\".A recently relaunched government programme, which started in 2002 in preparation for the Beijing Olympics, calls for all preschools in the city to introduce English courses within five years.According to local press reports, a minimum of 60% of shop assistants, receptionists and hairdressers under 40 will also be required to pass English tests by 2015, as will 80% of police officers.Every civil servant under the age of 40 with a bachelor's degree will also be required to master a minimum of 1,000 English sentences.Max de Lotbini\u00e8remax.delotbiniere@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Education"], "title": "Canada tests language of all migrant skilled workers | Education"},{"date": "2010-09-02T15:36:59Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Near the end of Scott Pilgrim Vs the World, Comeau, the guy who \"knows everybody\", can be overheard having a conversation about which is better, the movie or the comic book. Lest I be out-meta'ed, then, let me carefully sidestep the issue of whether Bryan Lee O'Malley's graphic novel is superior to its big screen adaptation (or vice versa) and just say this: Hollywood nimbly dodged a fireball and landed a 64-punch combo by staying so true to Scott Pilgrim's strange, funny and very deep-rooted Canadianness.Which is not an easy thing to define. A surefire dinner party conversation starter with Canadians (and a quick way to send everyone else home early) is to ask: \"But what ... exactly does it mean to be Canadian?\" Try it. If you come up with anything other than single-tier universal healthcare, ice hockey and a sort of vague licentiousness, I have a 1kg bottle of Quebec Medium No 1 maple syrup with your name on it.But Scott Pilgrim has Canada \u2013 or at least Toronto \u2013 down. It nails the city's confident but self-conscious sense of humour, the love of bad puns (\"I was just a little bi-curious!\" \"Well honey, I'm a little bi-furious\"), the self-deprecating jokes (\"What's the website for Amazon.ca?\"), and the very malleability of being Canadian (\"When I'm around you, I kind of feel like I'm on drugs. Not that I do drugs. Unless you do drugs, in which case I do them all the time.\")Many Canadians feel towards their country exactly what the Scott Pilgrim comic/film feels towards its protagonist: fond contempt. Not taking yourself too seriously seems to be key when you're lying in bed with a cultural elephant that could not only squash you, but doesn't even know you're there.This wary jokiness about America is also a key element of the plot. In search of bigger US box office takings, Edgar Wright could well have set Scott Pilgrim in, say, Seattle, but only at the expense of the comic's wonderfully pitched attitude towards the States.Scott's love interest, Ramona Flowers, is an American, and so is the No 1 big boss ex-boyfriend, music promoter Gideon. The latter makes various disparaging remarks about Canada, but Scott (or, as Ramona calls him in the comic, \"Canada boy\"), fights right back: \"You're pretentious, this club sucks, I have beef. Let's fight.\"With a light touch, the film captures Toronto's paradoxical, smug inferiority towards the US, and specifically New York. Torontonians know they're less important, less powerful and generally less stylish than New Yorkers, but take a perverse pride in not caring. It shows off what I've always loved about Toronto: its beautiful marriage of big-city sheen and quiet, empty, snow-muffled desolation. Toronto is a romantic city, especially in winter, especially if you take romance with a grain of salt. If you can set a romcom in coffee chains in Seattle, it's about time we had one on snowy park swings at midnight.Not all film adaptations are as faithful to setting \u2013 with often disastrous results. Fever Pitch transposed Nick Hornby's novel about his solitary, girl-free obsession with Arsenal into a romcom starring Jimmy Fallon as a Boston Red Sox fan. The US remake of the Australian comedy Kath and Kim inexplicably made the two characters educated, middle class and attractive, thus inherently negating the \"bogan\" hilarity of the original.Also, in its American, Richard Gere-led incarnation, Shall We Dance? was an embarrassing misstep. This makes sense when you understand that what made the original Japanese film a hit is that ballroom dancing, and the public male-female physical interaction it requires, is fairly taboo in Japan.But my vote for worst locale-changing in film goes to U571. This ping-and-periscope schlock about the boarding of a German U-boat in the second world war had the gall to state it was American submarine officers who captured the famous Enigma cipher machine from the Nazis, thus changing the course of the war and helping to defeat Hitler. It was, of course, British naval officers who captured the first Enigma, not to mention British codebreakers at Bletchley Park, led by Alan Turing (British), who cracked its secrets. The movie's only saving grace is that Jon Bon Jovi gets swept overboard.U571's setting crimes may soon be dwarfed, however, if rumours of a live-action Akira set in Manhattan, rather than nuclear-afeared Tokyo, are true. (See this artist's rendering of Akira USA for further evidence.) But that's just my precious little Canadian opinion. Let's hear your votes: know any Fear & Loathing in Enfields I haven't mentioned?", "tags": ["Film", "Action and adventure", "Edgar Wright", "Canada", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Location location location: Scott Pilgrim's love letter to Canada"},{"date": "2010-09-07T15:58:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The arrival off the west coast of Canada of a rusty boat containing nearly 500 exhausted Sri Lankan Tamil asylum seekers has sparked an angry debate about racism that has divided national opinion.The merchant vessel Sun Sea limped, under escort, into Esquimalt naval base in British Columbia on 13 August after a four month voyage from Songkhla in Thailand. The passengers spoke of grim conditions. One man died during the journey and was buried at sea.\"It is a miracle that they survived,\" David Poopalapillai of the Canadian Tamil Congress (CTC) told the Guardian. \"The boat is very primitive, you wouldn't even go out fishing in it.\" He ascribed their survival to the fact that they had been living for many months in very hostile conditions in Sri Lanka.The 380 men and 63 women are being held in detention centres near Vancouver. The 49 children on board are with their mothers although not officially detained. Hearings into whether the Tamils can be released while applications for refugee status are processed are due to start tomorrow .Even before the boat reached Canada, it had stirred up controversy. The Conservative prime minister, Stephen Harper, described the vessel as \"abnormal\", claimed that it created security concerns and warned that he could seek a change in the law to deal with similar arrivals. Canada's public safety minister, Vic Toews, said that it could contain members of the Tamil Tigers and that it was a \"test ship ... part of a broader organised criminal enterprise\".The government has been accused of scaremongering by the opposition, immigration lawyers and refugee groups. The Liberal party leader, Michael Ignatieff, criticised suggestions that the boat should have been turned away, as happened to similar vessels approaching Australia. He said during a recent political rally in Winnipeg: \"This is Canada, not Australia. That means Canada has principles, the charter of rights and freedoms, our international obligations.\"Canada has a long history of welcoming refugees, from 200,000 Hungarians who fled after the failed 1956 uprising to more than 100,000 US draft resisters who crossed into Canada during the Vietnam war. There were also darker times; coincidentally, last week, details were announced of a monument to commemorate the St Louis, a ship carrying Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany in 1939 which was turned away by the Canadian government. Many of its 900 passengers subsequently died in concentration camps.Lorne Waldman, the lawyer representing more than 50 of the asylum seekers, told the Guardian that before the boat landed the tone was set. \"From the get-go, it was suggested that there were criminals and terrorists aboard,\" he said. \"The Sri Lankan government has a huge interest in portraying them this way rather than as victims of a genocidal civil war. Some of those on board are victims of torture and have shrapnel wounds.\"Waldman, who represented a smaller number of Tamils who arrived last October on another boat, the Ocean Lady, said that terrorist claims had been made then but none substantiated.Professor Rohan Gunaratna, who is advising the Canadian government, said, in an email from his home in Singapore, that the Tamil Tigers had \"decided to regroup in Canada where (they) have traditionally raised funds and lobbied politicians that depended on the migrant-diaspora vote.\" He claimed there was evidence that the Tamil Tigers had organised the voyage.An opinion poll last month indicated that a majority of Canadians wanted the Tamils to be sent back.\"Why such rage directed at such a minuscule group?\" asked columnist Stephen Hume in the Vancouver Sun. \"Perhaps it's because they aren't white ... How we respond to a few Tamils seeking safety and a future for their children says far more about us than it does about them. And what it says so far is rather distasteful.\"This provoked a furious reaction. \"Gee, could it be that we are sick of being played for Patsies?\" was one of the milder responses from readers. \"You might sing a different song if your community was flooded with Hindus, Vietnamese, etc who brought such worthy skills with them as drive-by shootings, drug wars, murder of their own wives and daughters,\" read another.Poopalapillai, of the CTC, which represents about 200,000 Tamils, mainly in the Toronto area, blamed the Sri Lankan government for raising the spectre of terrorism. \"If there are any undesirable residents, put them through due process,\" he said. \"Most of these folks went through persecution and hostile conditions. The only thing they had in their mind was to save their lives.\" Of the opinion poll, he said: \"Canada is a very compassionate country but people were not very well informed at the time this poll was taken.\"A government spokeswoman said that the average process time for refugee status was 21 months but the hearings this week could lead to the conditional release of at least some of the asylum seekers once their identities had been established.", "tags": ["Canada", "Refugees", "Sri Lanka", "World news", "Americas", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Sri Lankan Tamil refugees spark racism row in Canada"},{"date": "2010-08-24T11:31:31Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Alexander the Great's bare bottom is keeping a highly-praised debut novel off shelves in Canada.Annabel Lyon's The Golden Mean is the story of Alexander's childhood, told through the eyes of his tutor Aristotle. Praised as \"a triumph of erudition and story-telling\" by The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas author John Boyne and shortlisted for Canada's top literary award, the Giller prize, it was published last year in Canada and is just out in the UK where the Financial Times has admired its \"eerie earthiness\".But apparently its jacket \u2013 featuring a naked man lying on the back of an equally naked white horse \u2013 is offensive to some. Although stores across Canada and the UK are selling the book, Lyons revealed on her blog that British Columbia ferry company BC Ferries is not stocking it \"since the trade paperback still features a bare bum on the cover\".BC Ferries said it had told the book's publisher, Random House Canada, that it would carry the book if it featured a \"belly band\" wrapped around the offending parts \"because we're obviously a 'family show' and we've got children in our gift shops\". But Random House refused, and the transportation company decided against stocking the title.\"While some people might think it's art or appropriate or whatever, parents of young people might not think it's appropriate for young children to view,\" BC Ferries spokesperson Deborah Marshall told Canadian paper the Province.Lyon, the author of two previous short story collections, has refused to take the decision to heart. \"Oh, BC Ferries. You have one too, you know you do!\" she wrote on her blog.", "tags": ["Books", "Fiction", "Censorship", "Canada", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Alexander the Great novel gets bum rap in Canada"},{"date": "2010-08-18T01:12:50Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Mazda is recalling more than 300,000 cars in the US, Canada and Mexico, warning that problems with their power steering could lead to crashes.The company said repairs were needed to Mazda3 and Mazda5 models built from April 2007 to November 2008, faults that were put right a year ago in Japan. About 215,000 of the cars involved were sold in the US.Mazda said the vehicles could have a sudden loss of power-steering, making it difficult for the driver to steer and increasing the risk of a crash.The US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration opened an investigation into steering problems in 2007-2009 Mazda3s in June, citing 33 complaints alleging steering problems, including three crashes.Mazda told the agency last week it was first informed of similar steering problems in Japan in March 2008 and the company began its own investigation in July 2008.By summer 2009, it had found that the problem was caused by rust forming inside a high-pressure pipe in the power steering system. Rust particles could then enter the power steering pump and cause it to shut down to avoid overheating.An \"improvement campaign\" last summer to repair vehicles was organised in Japan \"due to a high occurrence rate of this problem,\" according to the company's letter to the US agency. It did not issue a recall in North America, instead issuing a technical service bulletin to dealers since the \"occurrence rate was low\". That included repair procedures for customers who reported steering problems.Mazda told NHTSA in the letter that in the spring of 2010, \"we realised the occurrence rate was increasing in the North American market and then we began to study further field action for the market.\"The Mazda action follows trouble with Toyotas in the US, although preliminary findings by the US government suggest the sticking accelerators that prompted a recall might have often been caused by driver error.", "tags": ["Automotive industry", "US news", "Toyota", "Road transport", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Mazda recalls 300,000 cars in US, Canada and Mexico"},{"date": "2010-07-27T15:42:40Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The EPA has slowed down the approval process of a permit for a new Canada-to-Texas oil pipeline that a few months ago looked like a shoo-in for a State Department rubber stamp by the fall.The EPA gave the State department's draft environmental impact statement for the 2000 mile pipeline that will cut across the nation's heartland the worst rating possible, noting that if differences between the agencies can't be resolved, the matter could get referred to the White House for resolution.In response, the State department announced yesterday it intended to add 90 days to the process of making a decision on the pipeline permit to allow the final environmental impact statement to be reviewed by other federal agencies. Observers think that means there will be no decision until sometime next year. Last year, a similar pipeline received approval with far less scrutiny. Is environmental security rising to become a matter of primary national interest in the wake of the Gulf oil disaster? \"We're not BP, I'm not sure what that means for TransCanada,\" Terry Cunha, a spokesperson for the company that wants to build the pipeline said, referring to the Gulf oil disaster. \"The incident that took place with BP is unfortunate, but we don't drill offshore, we're a pipeline company and we have a strong safety record.\"The proposed TransCanada pipeline will carry crude from Alberta's oil sands to refineries in Texas. Known as the Keystone XL, it would increase the flow of a far more polluting form of oil from the north by 900,000 barrels a day and double US consumption. \"I think it reflects a growing recognition that Canada has mismanaged oil sands development,\" Simon Dyer told SolveClimate News. He is the the oilsands program director of the Pembina Institute, a Canadian sustainable energy think tank. \"The U.S. EPA is an agency that is actually doing its job as compared to regulatory agencies in Canada that are not providing this kind of scrutiny.\" The EPA has asked the State Department to consider the national security implications of expanding the nation's commitment to a relatively high-carbon source of oil, which EPA says has a well-to-wheels carbon footprint 82 percent larger than conventional oil. Also of concern is what would happen if a pipeline accident caused a serious spill above the Ogallala aquifer which millions of Americans in the Midwest rely on for fresh drinking water as well as irrigation, but many other long-standing environmental impacts are also giving EPA pause.\"We don't agree with it,\" Cunha of TransCanada said, referring to the EPA's poor rating of the draft environmental impact statement. \"We've been working with the State Department since November 2008 and we think they did a thorough and complete job.\"Energy and Environmental Security on an Equal FootingThrough the lens of energy security, Canadian oil looks more attractive than oil tainted by unfriendly foreign regimes, but since April 20th, when the Deepwater Horizon exploded, the sheen of that perceived advantage has faded.It has become painfully clear that with one environmental catastrophe, the economy and social fabric of a whole region can be destroyed as effectively as with a terrorist attack. It puts oil thirsty Americans between Iraq and a hard place, and the search for a proper balance between energy and environmental security is now up for grabs in the inter-agency tussle.Ask average Americans where to find the biggest and dirtiest industrial project known to man, and chances are that only a few will point to a leading contender just across the northern border in Alberta, Canada.Alberta is ground zero of an oil bonanza booming on North American soil, where vast deposits of oil sands sitting beneath pristine boreal forests are being unearthed, causing severe and far-reaching environmental impacts.To extract the oil from the sand requires three barrels of fresh water for every barrel of oil produced; it leaves behind toxic liquid tailings that are collected in ponds lethal enough to kill birds that land on them, which now sprawl over more than 150 square kilometers of territory; and extraction by itself produces three times more greenhouse gases than conventional oil pumped up from a well.The yield from the messy mining process is a tarry crude that can be turned into gasoline. Even though the biggest customers are Americans in their guzzling autos, the tar sands, as they are also known, have remained largely outside popular awareness and media attention in U.S. It looks like that is starting to change.Not worth mining at any great scale until recent decades, the inferior grade fuel has now come to provide the largest portion of oil entering the U.S. from Canada, America's largest foreign supplier since 2004. It is projected to provide 30% of US needs by 2030 -- all from a friendly, mostly English-speaking neighbor. It is a welcome prospect inside the State Department, wrestling with terror and responsible for keeping the nation supplied with oil as a matter of national interest.Expected Rubber Stamp Now Up in the AirAt the start of the year, most observers thought approval would be rubber-stamped by the State Department, which has jurisdiction over issuing the trans-border permit for the pipeline. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton did not hesitate to give approval for another oil sands pipeline, known as Alberta Clipper, in August 2009, which the EPA had also reviewed more favorably. There was no reason to believe that anything would be different with the new pipeline.The April 20th Deepwater Horizon explosion and three months of oil leaking into the Gulf has unquestionably changed the rules of engagement.In the face of the ongoing Gulf catastrophe and under pressure from environmentalists, the State department announced in mid-June that it would extend the public comment period on the proposed pipeline by two weeks until July 2nd, and added two public hearings scheduled for this month. It will use the public input to develop a final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), but the process is suddenly no longer in for smooth sailing. First, 50 members of Congress sent a letter to Secretary Clinton urging her to carefully scrutinize the significant environmental impact of the pipeline and grabbed some headlines, unusual for the oil sands, which rarely get U.S. attentionThen in mid-July, the EPA sent the State Department a lengthy critique of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) of the Keystone XL project, and gave it the lowest possible rating -- Inadequate Information. It suggested that the matter might be worth kicking upstairs to the White House and its Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), headed by Nancy Sutley. \"As with all projects that have not addressed potentially significant impacts,\" the EPA letter from Cynthis Giles to the State Department said, \"this proposal is a potential candidate for referral to CEQ.\"Powerful Environmental Provision According to a CEQ source, who spoke with SolveClimate News without authorization and so cannot be identified, noting the possibility of a referral to the White House is something routinely done whenever an environmental impact statement receives an adverse review, which happens only about once a year.The process of referring a federal decision to CEQ is a long-standing but seldom used mechanism established by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. It has been used only 27 times over the last 41 years, the last time in 2001 in the first year of George W. Bush's presidency.It is a surprisingly powerful environmental provision that allows any federal agency, concerned about the environmental effects of a proposed major federal action, to force a review by CEQ, which is a part of the executive office of the president. The CEQ source said once a matter is in their hands, \"we have broad authority to do what we will with it.\"Regulations describe seven possible avenues that CEQ can decide to pursue to resolve inter-agency disputes referred for resolution. CEQ can decide whether it wants to mediate the dispute, for example, hold public hearings, or publish its own findings and recommendations. If inter-agency differences are irreconcilable, as a last resort CEQ can submit the referral and its response together with its recommendation to the President for action. The State Department must now give EPA satisfactory answers about the pipeline and resolve inter-agency differences, or EPA can formally refer the matter for review to the White House within 25 days of the release of the final Environmental Impact Statement, which the State Department is preparing. What was particularly striking about the EPA letter is that it asked the State Department to provide a broader national security analysis of the implications of committing the nation long-term to oil from Canada, asking for an evaluation of energy security hand-in-hand with environmental security.. \"What was really noteworthy was the call for a full assessment of the climate and energy implications of oil sands development, Dyer of Pembina said, \"and tying those two discussions together.\" EPA also wants to be sure that a wide range of specific environmental impacts are properly evaluated before approval for the pipeline is given. The transmittal letter from Cynthis Giles of EPA dated July 16 says: The topics on which we believe additional information and analysis are necessary include the purpose and need for the project, potential greenhouse gas emissions associated with the project, air pollutant emissions at the receiving refineries, pipeline safety/spill response, potential impacts to environmental justice communities, wetlands and migratory birds.GamechangerEnvironmental campaigners called the EPA letter a \"gamechanger\" and lit up the blogosphere and opinion pages, notching an unexpected victory over industry. After years of effort to try to slow demand for tar sands oil in the U.S., campaigners are finally seeing their arguments seriously taken up at the highest levels of the federal government.US scrutiny is sure to put pressure on both the governments of Canada and of Alberta to improve the environmental performance of the oil sands. The lengthy EPA letter to the State Department asks for answers to questions that Canadian authorities have not seriously confronted, except to sidestep them to favor industrial expansion. The EPA is in effect now starting to do a job that industry-friendly Canadian regulators have failed to do for decades.The latest evidence of lax regulation and enforcement came in the form of a scandal which erupted earlier this month when federal politicians from the Canadian government and opposition parties mysteriously canceled an 18-month investigation into oil sands pollution. They also ordered draft copies of their report destroyed. Now for the first time in the U.S., Canadian efforts to greenwash the oil sands are bumping into tough talk from highly placed sources.This month it was US Ambassador to Canada, David Jacobson, who said Canada needs to demonstrate how it is meeting its obligations of environmental stewardship. Last month, it was John Podesta, president of the Center for American Progress who headed the Obama transition team and is part of the president's inner circle on energy, who delivered a blunter message in a keynote speech to tar sands boosters gathered in Washington. \"Oil extraction from tar sands is polluting, destructive, expensive and energy-intensive. These things are facts. I think suggesting this process can come close to approximating being 'greened' is largely misleading, or far too optimistic, or perhaps both. It stands alongside clean coal and error-free deepwater drilling as more PR than reality.\"It an abrupt departure from business-as-usual inside the corridors of power in the US. The oil Industry is also now facing further challenges in the court of public opinion, thanks to an unorthodox ad campaign in four US cities unleashed by a coalition of campaigners. Images of dead ducks in oil sands tailings pond have been plastered on billboards in Denver, Portland, Seattle and Minneapolis. Next to them is a picture of an oil-drenched brown pelican at the site of the Deepwater Horizon spill. \"Alberta: The Other Oil Disaster,\" the billboard reads. \"Thinking of visiting Alberta, Canada? Think again,\" it continues. The campaign will debut in cities around the UK this week.Historically, Americans have little cared where their oil was sourced, unless an embargo made supplies scarce or the price got too high. The War on Terror erased that form of blissful ignorance, as US soldiers took fire from enemies financed by American expenditures at the pump. Three months of oil gushing into the Gulf and another similarly unacceptable equation has now intruded on public awareness. \"The disaster in the Gulf has put the costs of oil consumption into sharp focus,\" Dyer said. \"The world is running out of oil and neither deepwater sources of the Gulf nor oil sands in Canada provide a sustainable alternative.\" Now it is up to the State Department to satisfy the EPA's serious concerns about the pipeline, as it prepares the final environmental impact statement for the Keystone XL project. The Department of Energy yesterday also questioned the core arguments for the pipeline. If the project fails to adequately protect environmental security, there's a chance EPA could refer it to CEQ for resolution, which means the decision to sign off on the permit for the pipeline could ultimately rest with the president.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Oil", "Environment", "US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)"], "title": "EPA slows approval for Canada-Texas oil pipeline"},{"date": "2010-09-29T15:38:20Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Based on US President Barack Obama's 31 August pronouncement and the uncritical TV news coverage of it, it might be reasonable to believe that the Iraq war is over. The frustrating truth, however, is that for the Iraqi people, for American soldiers who continue to be deployed to Iraq, and for those US soldiers who refused to take part in the war and sought refuge in Canada, the facts are very different.Tom Kent, the Associated Press's deputy managing editor for standards and production, explained it best in a memo to the journalists working for his internationally respected news organisation earlier this month:\"To begin with, combat in Iraq is not over, and we should not uncritically repeat suggestions that it is, even if they come from senior officials. The situation on the ground in Iraq is no different today than it has been for some months.\"As for US involvement, it also goes too far to say that the US part in the conflict in Iraq is over. President Obama said Monday night that 'the American combat mission in Iraq has ended. Operation Iraqi Freedom is over, and the Iraqi people now have lead responsibility for the security of their country.'\"However, 50,000 American troops remain in country. Our own reporting on the ground confirms that some of these troops, especially some 4,500 special operations forces, continue to be directly engaged in military operations. These troops are accompanying Iraqi soldiers into battle with militant groups and may well fire and be fired on.\"In addition, although administration spokesmen say we are now at the tail end of American involvement and all troops will be gone by the end of 2011, there is no guarantee that this will be the case.\"For many, particularly the families mourning the more than 100,000 documented Iraqi civilian deaths caused by this unnecessary war, it is not possible simply to declare the lies, violence and misery resolved.There is also the persistent matter of how and why this ongoing war was started. The Bush and Blair duo's purposeful communication of false evidence of weapons of mass destruction (WMD) continues to be important because the N\u00fcremberg military tribunals, which followed the horrors of the second world war, determined that:\"To initiate a war of aggression\u2026 is not only an international crime; it is the supreme international crime differing only from other war crimes in that it contains within itself the accumulated evil of the whole.\"US Iraq war veteran Rodney Watson marked the first full year of sanctuary in Vancouver's First United Church on 18 September because he refuses to be jailed while those responsible for sending him into an illegal war remain free to write books and profit from their crimes. Rodney and an estimated 200 other US Iraq war resisters came to Canada seeking refuge in a country that came to the same conclusion about the Iraq war as they did. They have, instead, found themselves threatened by our government with deportation and harsh punishment by the US military.This past July, the federal court of appeal ruled that the request by Jeremy Hinzman \u2013 the first Iraq war resister to come to Canada \u2013 for permanent resident status based on humanitarian and compassionate grounds must be sent back for reconsideration by a different immigration officer. The court unanimously found (PDF) that the first review of his case was \"significantly flawed\" and \"unreasonable\", sending the message that officials can no longer ignore the sincerely held moral, political and religious beliefs that motivated these conscientious soldiers to become war resisters.Canada has a proud tradition of accepting war resisters, which extends all the way back to the United Empire Loyalists. During the 1960s and early 1970s, we welcomed more than 50,000 Vietnam war resisters who were the \"largest, best-educated group this country had ever received.\" Despite denials by the current Conservative minority administration, the government of Canada's own historians have correctly recounted that this group included both draft-dodgers and deserters.In 2008, after the first vote by parliament directing our government to stop deporting Iraq war resisters and fairly consider their requests for permanent resident status, nearly two thirds of Canadians surveyed by Angus Reid (PDF) agreed with parliament's decision. Since then, resisters Robin Long and Cliff Cornell were forced back to the US. With interviews about their political and moral opposition to the war that aired on CBC and CNN used as evidence against them, they were court-martialled for desertion and imprisoned for longer terms than some soldiers who have been convicted of rape.Back in 2003, Stephen Harper, as leader of the opposition, went on Fox News to endorse Bush's criminal war plans and assert that, were he prime minister, he would send Canadians to Iraq. At the same time, hundreds of thousands marched in the streets across Canada condemning the war before it even started. Canadians convinced the government of the day to make the right judgment. Fast-forward to our last federal election two years ago, and even Harper admitted the Iraq war was \"absolutely an error\".On Wednesday, Bill C-440 \u2013 an act to amend the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act (war resisters) \u2013 will be voted on at second reading. If passed, it will give the force of law to parliament's clear direction and effect to the will of the majority of Canadians that accepting Iraq war resisters is the right thing to do.This bill should not be necessary, as parliament and a majority of Canadians have said they want Iraq war resisters to stay. But this legislation is necessary, because these resisters still face harsh punishment if returned to the US for refusing to be part of a war that never should have happened. Its adoption by the house of commons and senate would be a victory for the very democracy that Iraq war proponents have tried to mislead the world into believing was their goal.", "tags": ["Canada", "Iraq", "Barack Obama", "Stephen Harper", "Human rights", "War crimes", "US news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada wants US war resisters to stay | Paul Copeland"},{"date": "2010-09-14T13:01:15Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's immigration minister Jason Kenney has come under sustained criticism from lawyers representing migrants after his sudden change to visa rules in June made it obligatory for skilled workers from English- and French-speaking countries to prove that they are competent in one of those languages before they are allowed to settle.Applicants who could provide documentary proof of schooling in English or French medium countries were not required to sit either the Ielts test of English or the Test d'Evaluation de Fran\u00e7ais, but the rule change removes that exemption.David Matas, a spokesman for the Canadian Bar Association, called the change arbitrary and a violation of applicants' rights.\"What [the minister] is doing is taking a power over processing and using it, in effect, to amend the law,\" Matas told The Globe and Mail newspaper. \"It gives me a good deal of concern and isn't just about language testing or immigration. It's the sort of power that, if accepted, would wreak havoc with all our laws.\"Other critics said it would delay applications and add extra costs for up to 30,000 migrants from English- or French-speaking countries.A ministerial spokeswoman said the change was necessary because non-native English or French speakers often used the documentation option and visa officers found it difficult to assess their abilities.Meanwhile, Canada's National Post newspaper reported that eight members of the Afghan military, wanted in the US after going awol from an English language training course at an air force base in Texas, are seeking refugee status in Canada.Japan schools look forward to business-English boostJapan's beleaguered English language training sector is hopeful that a trend among Japanese companies to make English their official in\u2011house language, in a bid to internationalise their businesses, will create new demand for classes.Rakuten, Japan's biggest online retailer, plans to make English the firm's official language, while Fast Retailing, operator of the Uniqlo clothing chain, wants to make English more common in its offices by 2012 and plans to test its employees. The company hopes overseas sales will eventually account for 70% of its online sales and staff will be expected to master English by 2012 or face the sack. \"No English, no job,\" Rakuten CEO Hiroshi Mikitani said.Japanese carmakers Toyota and Nissan have also announced moves to increase the use of English.Fast Retailing will not provide English classes for staff. \"How [employees] choose to meet these expectations is a personal choice,\" Daisuke Hase, a spokesman for Fast Retailing told Reuters.Beijing seeks to build on Olympic foundationsResidents of Beijing are under renewed pressure to learn English as part of an official drive to make the Chinese capital into a \"world city\".A recently relaunched government programme, which started in 2002 in preparation for the Beijing Olympics, calls for all preschools in the city to introduce English courses within five years.According to local press reports, a minimum of 60% of shop assistants, receptionists and hairdressers under 40 will also be required to pass English tests by 2015, as will 80% of police officers.Every civil servant under the age of 40 with a bachelor's degree will also be required to master a minimum of 1,000 English sentences.Max de Lotbini\u00e8remax.delotbiniere@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Education"], "title": "Canada tests language of all migrant skilled workers | Education"},{"date": "2010-09-02T15:36:59Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Near the end of Scott Pilgrim Vs the World, Comeau, the guy who \"knows everybody\", can be overheard having a conversation about which is better, the movie or the comic book. Lest I be out-meta'ed, then, let me carefully sidestep the issue of whether Bryan Lee O'Malley's graphic novel is superior to its big screen adaptation (or vice versa) and just say this: Hollywood nimbly dodged a fireball and landed a 64-punch combo by staying so true to Scott Pilgrim's strange, funny and very deep-rooted Canadianness.Which is not an easy thing to define. A surefire dinner party conversation starter with Canadians (and a quick way to send everyone else home early) is to ask: \"But what ... exactly does it mean to be Canadian?\" Try it. If you come up with anything other than single-tier universal healthcare, ice hockey and a sort of vague licentiousness, I have a 1kg bottle of Quebec Medium No 1 maple syrup with your name on it.But Scott Pilgrim has Canada \u2013 or at least Toronto \u2013 down. It nails the city's confident but self-conscious sense of humour, the love of bad puns (\"I was just a little bi-curious!\" \"Well honey, I'm a little bi-furious\"), the self-deprecating jokes (\"What's the website for Amazon.ca?\"), and the very malleability of being Canadian (\"When I'm around you, I kind of feel like I'm on drugs. Not that I do drugs. Unless you do drugs, in which case I do them all the time.\")Many Canadians feel towards their country exactly what the Scott Pilgrim comic/film feels towards its protagonist: fond contempt. Not taking yourself too seriously seems to be key when you're lying in bed with a cultural elephant that could not only squash you, but doesn't even know you're there.This wary jokiness about America is also a key element of the plot. In search of bigger US box office takings, Edgar Wright could well have set Scott Pilgrim in, say, Seattle, but only at the expense of the comic's wonderfully pitched attitude towards the States.Scott's love interest, Ramona Flowers, is an American, and so is the No 1 big boss ex-boyfriend, music promoter Gideon. The latter makes various disparaging remarks about Canada, but Scott (or, as Ramona calls him in the comic, \"Canada boy\"), fights right back: \"You're pretentious, this club sucks, I have beef. Let's fight.\"With a light touch, the film captures Toronto's paradoxical, smug inferiority towards the US, and specifically New York. Torontonians know they're less important, less powerful and generally less stylish than New Yorkers, but take a perverse pride in not caring. It shows off what I've always loved about Toronto: its beautiful marriage of big-city sheen and quiet, empty, snow-muffled desolation. Toronto is a romantic city, especially in winter, especially if you take romance with a grain of salt. If you can set a romcom in coffee chains in Seattle, it's about time we had one on snowy park swings at midnight.Not all film adaptations are as faithful to setting \u2013 with often disastrous results. Fever Pitch transposed Nick Hornby's novel about his solitary, girl-free obsession with Arsenal into a romcom starring Jimmy Fallon as a Boston Red Sox fan. The US remake of the Australian comedy Kath and Kim inexplicably made the two characters educated, middle class and attractive, thus inherently negating the \"bogan\" hilarity of the original.Also, in its American, Richard Gere-led incarnation, Shall We Dance? was an embarrassing misstep. This makes sense when you understand that what made the original Japanese film a hit is that ballroom dancing, and the public male-female physical interaction it requires, is fairly taboo in Japan.But my vote for worst locale-changing in film goes to U571. This ping-and-periscope schlock about the boarding of a German U-boat in the second world war had the gall to state it was American submarine officers who captured the famous Enigma cipher machine from the Nazis, thus changing the course of the war and helping to defeat Hitler. It was, of course, British naval officers who captured the first Enigma, not to mention British codebreakers at Bletchley Park, led by Alan Turing (British), who cracked its secrets. The movie's only saving grace is that Jon Bon Jovi gets swept overboard.U571's setting crimes may soon be dwarfed, however, if rumours of a live-action Akira set in Manhattan, rather than nuclear-afeared Tokyo, are true. (See this artist's rendering of Akira USA for further evidence.) But that's just my precious little Canadian opinion. Let's hear your votes: know any Fear & Loathing in Enfields I haven't mentioned?", "tags": ["Film", "Action and adventure", "Edgar Wright", "Canada", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Location location location: Scott Pilgrim's love letter to Canada"},{"date": "2010-09-07T15:58:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The arrival off the west coast of Canada of a rusty boat containing nearly 500 exhausted Sri Lankan Tamil asylum seekers has sparked an angry debate about racism that has divided national opinion.The merchant vessel Sun Sea limped, under escort, into Esquimalt naval base in British Columbia on 13 August after a four month voyage from Songkhla in Thailand. The passengers spoke of grim conditions. One man died during the journey and was buried at sea.\"It is a miracle that they survived,\" David Poopalapillai of the Canadian Tamil Congress (CTC) told the Guardian. \"The boat is very primitive, you wouldn't even go out fishing in it.\" He ascribed their survival to the fact that they had been living for many months in very hostile conditions in Sri Lanka.The 380 men and 63 women are being held in detention centres near Vancouver. The 49 children on board are with their mothers although not officially detained. Hearings into whether the Tamils can be released while applications for refugee status are processed are due to start tomorrow .Even before the boat reached Canada, it had stirred up controversy. The Conservative prime minister, Stephen Harper, described the vessel as \"abnormal\", claimed that it created security concerns and warned that he could seek a change in the law to deal with similar arrivals. Canada's public safety minister, Vic Toews, said that it could contain members of the Tamil Tigers and that it was a \"test ship ... part of a broader organised criminal enterprise\".The government has been accused of scaremongering by the opposition, immigration lawyers and refugee groups. The Liberal party leader, Michael Ignatieff, criticised suggestions that the boat should have been turned away, as happened to similar vessels approaching Australia. He said during a recent political rally in Winnipeg: \"This is Canada, not Australia. That means Canada has principles, the charter of rights and freedoms, our international obligations.\"Canada has a long history of welcoming refugees, from 200,000 Hungarians who fled after the failed 1956 uprising to more than 100,000 US draft resisters who crossed into Canada during the Vietnam war. There were also darker times; coincidentally, last week, details were announced of a monument to commemorate the St Louis, a ship carrying Jewish refugees from Nazi Germany in 1939 which was turned away by the Canadian government. Many of its 900 passengers subsequently died in concentration camps.Lorne Waldman, the lawyer representing more than 50 of the asylum seekers, told the Guardian that before the boat landed the tone was set. \"From the get-go, it was suggested that there were criminals and terrorists aboard,\" he said. \"The Sri Lankan government has a huge interest in portraying them this way rather than as victims of a genocidal civil war. Some of those on board are victims of torture and have shrapnel wounds.\"Waldman, who represented a smaller number of Tamils who arrived last October on another boat, the Ocean Lady, said that terrorist claims had been made then but none substantiated.Professor Rohan Gunaratna, who is advising the Canadian government, said, in an email from his home in Singapore, that the Tamil Tigers had \"decided to regroup in Canada where (they) have traditionally raised funds and lobbied politicians that depended on the migrant-diaspora vote.\" He claimed there was evidence that the Tamil Tigers had organised the voyage.An opinion poll last month indicated that a majority of Canadians wanted the Tamils to be sent back.\"Why such rage directed at such a minuscule group?\" asked columnist Stephen Hume in the Vancouver Sun. \"Perhaps it's because they aren't white ... How we respond to a few Tamils seeking safety and a future for their children says far more about us than it does about them. And what it says so far is rather distasteful.\"This provoked a furious reaction. \"Gee, could it be that we are sick of being played for Patsies?\" was one of the milder responses from readers. \"You might sing a different song if your community was flooded with Hindus, Vietnamese, etc who brought such worthy skills with them as drive-by shootings, drug wars, murder of their own wives and daughters,\" read another.Poopalapillai, of the CTC, which represents about 200,000 Tamils, mainly in the Toronto area, blamed the Sri Lankan government for raising the spectre of terrorism. \"If there are any undesirable residents, put them through due process,\" he said. \"Most of these folks went through persecution and hostile conditions. The only thing they had in their mind was to save their lives.\" Of the opinion poll, he said: \"Canada is a very compassionate country but people were not very well informed at the time this poll was taken.\"A government spokeswoman said that the average process time for refugee status was 21 months but the hearings this week could lead to the conditional release of at least some of the asylum seekers once their identities had been established.", "tags": ["Canada", "Refugees", "Sri Lanka", "World news", "Americas", "South and Central Asia"], "title": "Sri Lankan Tamil refugees spark racism row in Canada"},{"date": "2010-08-24T11:31:31Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Alexander the Great's bare bottom is keeping a highly-praised debut novel off shelves in Canada.Annabel Lyon's The Golden Mean is the story of Alexander's childhood, told through the eyes of his tutor Aristotle. Praised as \"a triumph of erudition and story-telling\" by The Boy in the Striped Pyjamas author John Boyne and shortlisted for Canada's top literary award, the Giller prize, it was published last year in Canada and is just out in the UK where the Financial Times has admired its \"eerie earthiness\".But apparently its jacket \u2013 featuring a naked man lying on the back of an equally naked white horse \u2013 is offensive to some. Although stores across Canada and the UK are selling the book, Lyons revealed on her blog that British Columbia ferry company BC Ferries is not stocking it \"since the trade paperback still features a bare bum on the cover\".BC Ferries said it had told the book's publisher, Random House Canada, that it would carry the book if it featured a \"belly band\" wrapped around the offending parts \"because we're obviously a 'family show' and we've got children in our gift shops\". But Random House refused, and the transportation company decided against stocking the title.\"While some people might think it's art or appropriate or whatever, parents of young people might not think it's appropriate for young children to view,\" BC Ferries spokesperson Deborah Marshall told Canadian paper the Province.Lyon, the author of two previous short story collections, has refused to take the decision to heart. \"Oh, BC Ferries. You have one too, you know you do!\" she wrote on her blog.", "tags": ["Books", "Fiction", "Censorship", "Canada", "Culture", "Americas"], "title": "Alexander the Great novel gets bum rap in Canada"},{"date": "2010-08-18T01:12:50Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Mazda is recalling more than 300,000 cars in the US, Canada and Mexico, warning that problems with their power steering could lead to crashes.The company said repairs were needed to Mazda3 and Mazda5 models built from April 2007 to November 2008, faults that were put right a year ago in Japan. About 215,000 of the cars involved were sold in the US.Mazda said the vehicles could have a sudden loss of power-steering, making it difficult for the driver to steer and increasing the risk of a crash.The US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration opened an investigation into steering problems in 2007-2009 Mazda3s in June, citing 33 complaints alleging steering problems, including three crashes.Mazda told the agency last week it was first informed of similar steering problems in Japan in March 2008 and the company began its own investigation in July 2008.By summer 2009, it had found that the problem was caused by rust forming inside a high-pressure pipe in the power steering system. Rust particles could then enter the power steering pump and cause it to shut down to avoid overheating.An \"improvement campaign\" last summer to repair vehicles was organised in Japan \"due to a high occurrence rate of this problem,\" according to the company's letter to the US agency. It did not issue a recall in North America, instead issuing a technical service bulletin to dealers since the \"occurrence rate was low\". That included repair procedures for customers who reported steering problems.Mazda told NHTSA in the letter that in the spring of 2010, \"we realised the occurrence rate was increasing in the North American market and then we began to study further field action for the market.\"The Mazda action follows trouble with Toyotas in the US, although preliminary findings by the US government suggest the sticking accelerators that prompted a recall might have often been caused by driver error.", "tags": ["Automotive industry", "US news", "Toyota", "Road transport", "World news", "Business"], "title": "Mazda recalls 300,000 cars in US, Canada and Mexico"},{"date": "2010-07-27T15:42:40Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The EPA has slowed down the approval process of a permit for a new Canada-to-Texas oil pipeline that a few months ago looked like a shoo-in for a State Department rubber stamp by the fall.The EPA gave the State department's draft environmental impact statement for the 2000 mile pipeline that will cut across the nation's heartland the worst rating possible, noting that if differences between the agencies can't be resolved, the matter could get referred to the White House for resolution.In response, the State department announced yesterday it intended to add 90 days to the process of making a decision on the pipeline permit to allow the final environmental impact statement to be reviewed by other federal agencies. Observers think that means there will be no decision until sometime next year. Last year, a similar pipeline received approval with far less scrutiny. Is environmental security rising to become a matter of primary national interest in the wake of the Gulf oil disaster? \"We're not BP, I'm not sure what that means for TransCanada,\" Terry Cunha, a spokesperson for the company that wants to build the pipeline said, referring to the Gulf oil disaster. \"The incident that took place with BP is unfortunate, but we don't drill offshore, we're a pipeline company and we have a strong safety record.\"The proposed TransCanada pipeline will carry crude from Alberta's oil sands to refineries in Texas. Known as the Keystone XL, it would increase the flow of a far more polluting form of oil from the north by 900,000 barrels a day and double US consumption. \"I think it reflects a growing recognition that Canada has mismanaged oil sands development,\" Simon Dyer told SolveClimate News. He is the the oilsands program director of the Pembina Institute, a Canadian sustainable energy think tank. \"The U.S. EPA is an agency that is actually doing its job as compared to regulatory agencies in Canada that are not providing this kind of scrutiny.\" The EPA has asked the State Department to consider the national security implications of expanding the nation's commitment to a relatively high-carbon source of oil, which EPA says has a well-to-wheels carbon footprint 82 percent larger than conventional oil. Also of concern is what would happen if a pipeline accident caused a serious spill above the Ogallala aquifer which millions of Americans in the Midwest rely on for fresh drinking water as well as irrigation, but many other long-standing environmental impacts are also giving EPA pause.\"We don't agree with it,\" Cunha of TransCanada said, referring to the EPA's poor rating of the draft environmental impact statement. \"We've been working with the State Department since November 2008 and we think they did a thorough and complete job.\"Energy and Environmental Security on an Equal FootingThrough the lens of energy security, Canadian oil looks more attractive than oil tainted by unfriendly foreign regimes, but since April 20th, when the Deepwater Horizon exploded, the sheen of that perceived advantage has faded.It has become painfully clear that with one environmental catastrophe, the economy and social fabric of a whole region can be destroyed as effectively as with a terrorist attack. It puts oil thirsty Americans between Iraq and a hard place, and the search for a proper balance between energy and environmental security is now up for grabs in the inter-agency tussle.Ask average Americans where to find the biggest and dirtiest industrial project known to man, and chances are that only a few will point to a leading contender just across the northern border in Alberta, Canada.Alberta is ground zero of an oil bonanza booming on North American soil, where vast deposits of oil sands sitting beneath pristine boreal forests are being unearthed, causing severe and far-reaching environmental impacts.To extract the oil from the sand requires three barrels of fresh water for every barrel of oil produced; it leaves behind toxic liquid tailings that are collected in ponds lethal enough to kill birds that land on them, which now sprawl over more than 150 square kilometers of territory; and extraction by itself produces three times more greenhouse gases than conventional oil pumped up from a well.The yield from the messy mining process is a tarry crude that can be turned into gasoline. Even though the biggest customers are Americans in their guzzling autos, the tar sands, as they are also known, have remained largely outside popular awareness and media attention in U.S. It looks like that is starting to change.Not worth mining at any great scale until recent decades, the inferior grade fuel has now come to provide the largest portion of oil entering the U.S. from Canada, America's largest foreign supplier since 2004. It is projected to provide 30% of US needs by 2030 -- all from a friendly, mostly English-speaking neighbor. It is a welcome prospect inside the State Department, wrestling with terror and responsible for keeping the nation supplied with oil as a matter of national interest.Expected Rubber Stamp Now Up in the AirAt the start of the year, most observers thought approval would be rubber-stamped by the State Department, which has jurisdiction over issuing the trans-border permit for the pipeline. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton did not hesitate to give approval for another oil sands pipeline, known as Alberta Clipper, in August 2009, which the EPA had also reviewed more favorably. There was no reason to believe that anything would be different with the new pipeline.The April 20th Deepwater Horizon explosion and three months of oil leaking into the Gulf has unquestionably changed the rules of engagement.In the face of the ongoing Gulf catastrophe and under pressure from environmentalists, the State department announced in mid-June that it would extend the public comment period on the proposed pipeline by two weeks until July 2nd, and added two public hearings scheduled for this month. It will use the public input to develop a final Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), but the process is suddenly no longer in for smooth sailing. First, 50 members of Congress sent a letter to Secretary Clinton urging her to carefully scrutinize the significant environmental impact of the pipeline and grabbed some headlines, unusual for the oil sands, which rarely get U.S. attentionThen in mid-July, the EPA sent the State Department a lengthy critique of the Draft Environmental Impact Statement (DEIS) of the Keystone XL project, and gave it the lowest possible rating -- Inadequate Information. It suggested that the matter might be worth kicking upstairs to the White House and its Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ), headed by Nancy Sutley. \"As with all projects that have not addressed potentially significant impacts,\" the EPA letter from Cynthis Giles to the State Department said, \"this proposal is a potential candidate for referral to CEQ.\"Powerful Environmental Provision According to a CEQ source, who spoke with SolveClimate News without authorization and so cannot be identified, noting the possibility of a referral to the White House is something routinely done whenever an environmental impact statement receives an adverse review, which happens only about once a year.The process of referring a federal decision to CEQ is a long-standing but seldom used mechanism established by the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969. It has been used only 27 times over the last 41 years, the last time in 2001 in the first year of George W. Bush's presidency.It is a surprisingly powerful environmental provision that allows any federal agency, concerned about the environmental effects of a proposed major federal action, to force a review by CEQ, which is a part of the executive office of the president. The CEQ source said once a matter is in their hands, \"we have broad authority to do what we will with it.\"Regulations describe seven possible avenues that CEQ can decide to pursue to resolve inter-agency disputes referred for resolution. CEQ can decide whether it wants to mediate the dispute, for example, hold public hearings, or publish its own findings and recommendations. If inter-agency differences are irreconcilable, as a last resort CEQ can submit the referral and its response together with its recommendation to the President for action. The State Department must now give EPA satisfactory answers about the pipeline and resolve inter-agency differences, or EPA can formally refer the matter for review to the White House within 25 days of the release of the final Environmental Impact Statement, which the State Department is preparing. What was particularly striking about the EPA letter is that it asked the State Department to provide a broader national security analysis of the implications of committing the nation long-term to oil from Canada, asking for an evaluation of energy security hand-in-hand with environmental security.. \"What was really noteworthy was the call for a full assessment of the climate and energy implications of oil sands development, Dyer of Pembina said, \"and tying those two discussions together.\" EPA also wants to be sure that a wide range of specific environmental impacts are properly evaluated before approval for the pipeline is given. The transmittal letter from Cynthis Giles of EPA dated July 16 says: The topics on which we believe additional information and analysis are necessary include the purpose and need for the project, potential greenhouse gas emissions associated with the project, air pollutant emissions at the receiving refineries, pipeline safety/spill response, potential impacts to environmental justice communities, wetlands and migratory birds.GamechangerEnvironmental campaigners called the EPA letter a \"gamechanger\" and lit up the blogosphere and opinion pages, notching an unexpected victory over industry. After years of effort to try to slow demand for tar sands oil in the U.S., campaigners are finally seeing their arguments seriously taken up at the highest levels of the federal government.US scrutiny is sure to put pressure on both the governments of Canada and of Alberta to improve the environmental performance of the oil sands. The lengthy EPA letter to the State Department asks for answers to questions that Canadian authorities have not seriously confronted, except to sidestep them to favor industrial expansion. The EPA is in effect now starting to do a job that industry-friendly Canadian regulators have failed to do for decades.The latest evidence of lax regulation and enforcement came in the form of a scandal which erupted earlier this month when federal politicians from the Canadian government and opposition parties mysteriously canceled an 18-month investigation into oil sands pollution. They also ordered draft copies of their report destroyed. Now for the first time in the U.S., Canadian efforts to greenwash the oil sands are bumping into tough talk from highly placed sources.This month it was US Ambassador to Canada, David Jacobson, who said Canada needs to demonstrate how it is meeting its obligations of environmental stewardship. Last month, it was John Podesta, president of the Center for American Progress who headed the Obama transition team and is part of the president's inner circle on energy, who delivered a blunter message in a keynote speech to tar sands boosters gathered in Washington. \"Oil extraction from tar sands is polluting, destructive, expensive and energy-intensive. These things are facts. I think suggesting this process can come close to approximating being 'greened' is largely misleading, or far too optimistic, or perhaps both. It stands alongside clean coal and error-free deepwater drilling as more PR than reality.\"It an abrupt departure from business-as-usual inside the corridors of power in the US. The oil Industry is also now facing further challenges in the court of public opinion, thanks to an unorthodox ad campaign in four US cities unleashed by a coalition of campaigners. Images of dead ducks in oil sands tailings pond have been plastered on billboards in Denver, Portland, Seattle and Minneapolis. Next to them is a picture of an oil-drenched brown pelican at the site of the Deepwater Horizon spill. \"Alberta: The Other Oil Disaster,\" the billboard reads. \"Thinking of visiting Alberta, Canada? Think again,\" it continues. The campaign will debut in cities around the UK this week.Historically, Americans have little cared where their oil was sourced, unless an embargo made supplies scarce or the price got too high. The War on Terror erased that form of blissful ignorance, as US soldiers took fire from enemies financed by American expenditures at the pump. Three months of oil gushing into the Gulf and another similarly unacceptable equation has now intruded on public awareness. \"The disaster in the Gulf has put the costs of oil consumption into sharp focus,\" Dyer said. \"The world is running out of oil and neither deepwater sources of the Gulf nor oil sands in Canada provide a sustainable alternative.\" Now it is up to the State Department to satisfy the EPA's serious concerns about the pipeline, as it prepares the final environmental impact statement for the Keystone XL project. The Department of Energy yesterday also questioned the core arguments for the pipeline. If the project fails to adequately protect environmental security, there's a chance EPA could refer it to CEQ for resolution, which means the decision to sign off on the permit for the pipeline could ultimately rest with the president.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Oil", "Environment", "US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)"], "title": "EPA slows approval for Canada-Texas oil pipeline"},{"date": "2010-07-05T09:08:16Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Lou Reed, Laurie Anderson and John Zorn faced a furious crowd on Friday night, playing cacophonous music to a cacophony of boos at the Montreal International Jazz festival. Fans expecting Sweet Jane or Walk On the Wild Side were instead met by the skronk and skree of Reed's more recent free-jazz work, infuriating sections of the crowd. As audience members hollered their complaints, Zorn responded. \"If you don't think it's music, then get the fuck outta here.\" Then the walk-outs began.The nature of the concert shouldn't really have been a surprise. After all, Zorn is one of the world's leading avant-garde musicians and Anderson is preceded by a reputation for, er, eccentricity. Reed was once, yes, a wry urban troubadour \u2013 but that was decades ago. Recently he has been touring his controversial album, Metal Machine Music \u2013 a work so noisy and abrasive that for years many thought it was a joke.However, there weren't any punch-lines at this gig, which attracted more than 1,000 fans \u2013 some paying almost $100 (\u00a362) for tickets. The concert consisted of just four instrumentals plus encore, according to the Globe and Mail, with \"no singing ... [and] no rhythm section\". The only sounds were Anderson's violin and keyboard, Zorn's alto sax, and Reed's electric guitar. In an interview earlier that day, Reed had gleefully promised a \"fearless night of non-rock\", \"100% improvised\". But the jazz festival programme had been less clear in its description of the gig, hinting at Reed's Velvet Underground past.Though Montreal is well-acquainted with \"free\" music, hosting one of North America's premier genre festivals, this was a headline performance at a middle-of-the-road jazz festival. What's more, it was at the festival's largest concert hall. So it didn't take long for the first boos to come. Initially, these complaints were misinterpreted as calls for \"Louuuuu!\" but soon the fans became more direct. \"Play some real music!\" one called.But others loved it. \"There were moments of stunning synchronicity,\" reflected Globe critic JD Considine. Montreal Gazette writer T'Cha Dunlevy was similarly moved. \"Zorn's never-ending sax trills were mesmerising and Anderson's unexpected melodic offerings late in the show were like flowers in the rubble,\" he wrote. Another Gazette critic, Jordan Zivitz, called it \"marvellous noise ... [with] numerous moments of telepathic playing\".\"Yes, there were those who claimed to enjoy the cacophony of discordant noise lacking melody, style, beauty or skill,\" replied one Gazette reader. \"[But] to label it correctly, it was pure elitist, pretentious rubbish.\" At least it wasn't recorded for dogs.", "tags": ["Lou Reed", "Laurie Anderson", "Jazz", "Pop and rock", "Music", "Culture"], "title": "Lou Reed booed in Canada for free-improv set"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:06:41Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When you're constantly hopping between different cultures (I host a television travel show), it's easy to put your foot in it. Recently, I rudely laughed at a friend when he told me that a bar in Canada's Yukon Territory served the most disgusting drink in the world.You generally have to head east to savour the exotic fringes of world cuisine: live baby mice in China, boiled spiders in Cambodia, fertilised duck eggs in the Philippines. In Canada, you can buy beaver tails, but that's just the name for deep-fried sugared pastries. I had belittled my friend because the legendary Sour Toe Cocktail, as served in Yukon's Dawson City, could not possibly be real. After all, why would you drop a severed human toe into a beverage? Really, I just didn't think Canada had it in her.Dawson City boomed as a major centre of the short-lived Klondike Gold Rush. Between 1896 and 1898, the population swelled to 40,000, and it was the largest city north of San Francisco. By 1902, the gold had dried up, along with dreams of fame and fortune. Dawson City quickly turned into a small outpost with sinking wooden storefronts; the population fell to 1,300.In 1973, a local eccentric was thinking of a way to capitalise on the summer tourist traffic heading to the Top of the World Highway. Captain Dick, as he is known, found a severed toe in an old log cabin. Now, when the temperature plummets to -55C, men are known to do strange things, including, as Gold Rush poems suggest, set themselves on fire to avoid dying of cold.A veteran inhabitant of the territory who has braved an entire winter there is known as a Yukon Sourdough. (They have a winter festival in the capital, Whitehorse.) Captain Dick dropped the toe into a glass of champagne, and called it the Sour Toe Cocktail. He started a club, crowning himself the Toe Captain. To join it, all you had to do was take a drink and let the toe touch your lips. Word spread. The legend was born.Nearly four decades later, I walk into the Downtown Hotel, chilled to my bones. Captain Al, tonight's Toe Captain, is awaiting new customers at the bar. Behind the counter sits the eighth toe, preserved in a jar of salt. Over the years, toes have been stolen, lost and, in some cases, swallowed. The 8th toe is a sickeningly big digit, donated by an American who lost it in a lawnmower accident.I pay $5 for a tumbler of Yukon Gold whiskey (the cocktail is available with any drink now, even non-alcoholic ones), and $5 to join the club. There's no doubting the authenticity of the digit. It's yellowed and pickled by the salt, with a broken nail. My stomach lurches. Captain Al launches into a well-rehearsed ritual: \"Drink it fast, or drink it slow, but either way, your lips must touch this gnarly looking toe!\"I close my eyes, taste the whiskey, and indulge in this ceremony of cocktail cannibalism. Not too bad, perhaps a little too much toe-jam on the high notes.Captain Al tells me the club has over 60,000 members. Anyone of drinking age can join, and since the Downtown Hotel is not responsible for what you put in your drink after you've bought it, the health authorities are powerless to do much about it. Tourists now visit Dawson City specifically to go toe-to-toe with this challenging libation, much as Captain Dick anticipated.With my name logged in the book, I received a card confirming membership of the Sour Toe Cocktail Club \u2013 and then immediately emailed my friend to apologise for having dismissed his story.\u2022 sourtoecocktailclub.com. Double rooms at the Downtown Hotel, Dawson City (+1 867 993 5346, downtownhotel.ca) cost from \u00a372 a nightRobin Esrock (robinesrock.com) co-hosts Word Travels on the Travel Channel", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Robin Esrock in Canada"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:06:41Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When you're constantly hopping between different cultures (I host a television travel show), it's easy to put your foot in it. Recently, I rudely laughed at a friend when he told me that a bar in Canada's Yukon Territory served the most disgusting drink in the world.You generally have to head east to savour the exotic fringes of world cuisine: live baby mice in China, boiled spiders in Cambodia, fertilised duck eggs in the Philippines. In Canada, you can buy beaver tails, but that's just the name for deep-fried sugared pastries. I had belittled my friend because the legendary Sour Toe Cocktail, as served in Yukon's Dawson City, could not possibly be real. After all, why would you drop a severed human toe into a beverage? Really, I just didn't think Canada had it in her.Dawson City boomed as a major centre of the short-lived Klondike Gold Rush. Between 1896 and 1898, the population swelled to 40,000, and it was the largest city north of San Francisco. By 1902, the gold had dried up, along with dreams of fame and fortune. Dawson City quickly turned into a small outpost with sinking wooden storefronts; the population fell to 1,300.In 1973, a local eccentric was thinking of a way to capitalise on the summer tourist traffic heading to the Top of the World Highway. Captain Dick, as he is known, found a severed toe in an old log cabin. Now, when the temperature plummets to -55C, men are known to do strange things, including, as Gold Rush poems suggest, set themselves on fire to avoid dying of cold.A veteran inhabitant of the territory who has braved an entire winter there is known as a Yukon Sourdough. (They have a winter festival in the capital, Whitehorse.) Captain Dick dropped the toe into a glass of champagne, and called it the Sour Toe Cocktail. He started a club, crowning himself the Toe Captain. To join it, all you had to do was take a drink and let the toe touch your lips. Word spread. The legend was born.Nearly four decades later, I walk into the Downtown Hotel, chilled to my bones. Captain Al, tonight's Toe Captain, is awaiting new customers at the bar. Behind the counter sits the eighth toe, preserved in a jar of salt. Over the years, toes have been stolen, lost and, in some cases, swallowed. The 8th toe is a sickeningly big digit, donated by an American who lost it in a lawnmower accident.I pay $5 for a tumbler of Yukon Gold whiskey (the cocktail is available with any drink now, even non-alcoholic ones), and $5 to join the club. There's no doubting the authenticity of the digit. It's yellowed and pickled by the salt, with a broken nail. My stomach lurches. Captain Al launches into a well-rehearsed ritual: \"Drink it fast, or drink it slow, but either way, your lips must touch this gnarly looking toe!\"I close my eyes, taste the whiskey, and indulge in this ceremony of cocktail cannibalism. Not too bad, perhaps a little too much toe-jam on the high notes.Captain Al tells me the club has over 60,000 members. Anyone of drinking age can join, and since the Downtown Hotel is not responsible for what you put in your drink after you've bought it, the health authorities are powerless to do much about it. Tourists now visit Dawson City specifically to go toe-to-toe with this challenging libation, much as Captain Dick anticipated.With my name logged in the book, I received a card confirming membership of the Sour Toe Cocktail Club \u2013 and then immediately emailed my friend to apologise for having dismissed his story.\u2022 sourtoecocktailclub.com. Double rooms at the Downtown Hotel, Dawson City (+1 867 993 5346, downtownhotel.ca) cost from \u00a372 a nightRobin Esrock (robinesrock.com) co-hosts Word Travels on the Travel Channel", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Robin Esrock in Canada"},{"date": "2010-12-14T20:33:58Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Wednesday, 09 July 2008, 18:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 03 OTTAWA 000918 C O R R E C T E D COPY//SUBJECT LINE////////////////////////////////// NOFORN SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 07/09/2018 TAGS PREL, PTER, MOPS, IR, PK, AF, CA SUBJECT: COUNSELOR, CSIS DIRECTOR DISCUSS CT THREATS, PAKISTAN, AFGHANISTAN, IRANREF: A. OTTAWA 360 B. OTTAWA 808 C. OTTAWA 850 D. OTTAWA 878OTTAWA 00000918 001.2 OF 003Classified By: PolMinCouns Scott Bellard, reasons, 1.4 (b) and (d).1. (S/NF) Summary. Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) Director Judd discussed domestic and foreign terror threats with Counselor of the State Department Cohen in Ottawa on July 2. Judd admitted that CSIS was increasingly distracted from its mission by legal challenges that could endanger foreign intelligence-sharing with Canadian agencies. He predicted that the upcoming release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr's interrogation by Canadian officials would lead to heightened pressure on the government to press for his return to Canada, which the government would continue to resist. Judd shared Dr. Cohen's negative assessment of current political, economic, and security trends in Pakistan, and was worried about what it would mean for the ISAF mission in Afghanistan. Canada has begun formulating an inter-agency Pakistan strategy, and CSIS had agreed to open a channel to Iran's intelligence service which Judd has not yet \"figured out.\" (Septel will cover Dr. Cohen's discussions regarding Pakistan and the OEF and ISAF missions in Afghanistan.) End summary.2. (S/NF) Counselor of the Department of State Eliot Cohen and CSIS Director Jim Judd in Ottawa on July 2 discussed threats posed by violent Islamist groups in Canada, and recent developments in Pakistan and Afghanistan. (CSIS is Canada's lead agency for national security intelligence.) Director Judd ascribed an \"Alice in Wonderland\" worldview to Canadians and their courts, whose judges have tied CSIS \"in knots,\" making it ever more difficult to detect and prevent terror attacks in Canada and abroad. The situation, he commented, left government security agencies on the defensive and losing public support for their effort to protect Canada and its allies.Legal Wrangling Risks Chill Effect----------------------------------3. (S/NF) XXXXXXXXXXXX4. (S/NF) Judd derided recent judgments in Canada's courts that threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- Qthat threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- and information-sharing with Canada. These judgments posit that Canadian authorities cannot use information that \"may have been\" derived from torture, and that any Canadian public official who conveys such information may be subject to criminal prosecution. This, he commented, put the government in a reverse-onus situation whereby it would have to \"prove\" the innocence of partner nations in the face of assumed wrongdoing.5. (S/NF) Judd credited Prime Minister Stephen Harper's minority Conservative government for \"taking it on the chin and pressing ahead\" with common sense measures despite court challenges and political knocks from the opposition and interest groups. When asked to look to the future, Judd predicted that Canada would soon implement UK-like legal procedures that make intelligence available to \"vetted defense lawyers who see everything the judge sees.\"OTTAWA 00000918 002.2 OF 003Terror Cases and Communities Present Mixed Pictures--------------------------------------------- ------6. (C/NF) Judd commented that cherry-picked sections of the court-ordered release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr (ref D) would likely show three (Canadian) adults interrogating a kid who breaks down in tears. He observed that the images would no doubt trigger \"knee-jerk anti-Americanism\" and \"paroxysms of moral outrage, a Canadian specialty,\" as well as lead to a new round of heightened pressure on the government to press for Khadr's return to Canada. He predicted that PM Harper's government would nonetheless continue to resist this pressure. 7. (C) The Director mentioned other major cases that also presented CSIS with major legal headaches due to the use of intelligence products in their development: Momin Khawaja has been on trial for his role in an Al Qaeda UK bomb plot since June 23 in the first major test of Canada's 2001 Anti-Terrorism Act, and Canada's ability to protect intelligence supplied by foreign government sources (ref D); the trial of the first of the home-grown Toronto 11 (down from 18) terror plotters, which is also now underway; and, the prosecution of XXXXXXXXXXXX.8. (C) Judd said he viewed Khawaja and his \"ilk\" as outliers, due in part to the fact that Canada's ethnic Pakistani community is unlike its ghettoized and poorly educated UK counterpart. It is largely made up of traders, lawyers, doctors, engineers, and others who see promise for themselves and their children in North America, he observed, so its members are unlikely to engage in domestic terror plots. He said that therefore CSIS main domestic focus is instead on fundraising and procurement, as well as the recruitment of a small number of Canadian \"wannabes\" of Pakistani origin for mostly overseas operations.Pakistan and Afghanistan------------------------9. (C) Turning to Pakistan, Counselor Cohen briefed his recent trip to Islamabad and Peshawar, noting his alarm at the degrading economic, political, and security situation there, and its implications for Pakistan, Afghan, and regional stability. Judd responded that Dr. Cohen's sober assessment tracked with CSIS' own view of Pakistan, and that \"it is hard to see a good outcome there\" due to that country's political, economic, and security failures, on top of fast-rising oil and food prices. Canada does not have an explicit strategy for Pakistan, Judd said, but Privy Council Deputy Secretary David Mulroney (who leads the interagency on Afghanistan) now has the lead on developing one (septel). Dr. Cohen remarked, and Judd agreed, that it would be necessary to avoid approaching Pakistan as simply an adjunct to the ISAF and OEF missions in Afghanistan.10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Q10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Afghanistan, Judd asserted, due in part to Karzai's weak leadership, widespread corruption, the lack of will to press ahead on counter-narcotics, limited Afghan security force capability (particularly the police) and, most recently, the Sarpoza prison break. He commented that CSIS had seen Sarpoza coming, and its link to the Quetta Shura in Pakistan, but could not get a handle on the timing.Iranian Outreach----------------11. (S/NF) Judd added that he and his colleagues are \"very, very worried\" about Iran. CSIS recently talked to Iran's Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS) after that agency requested its own channel of communication to Canada, he said. The Iranians agreed to \"help\" on Afghan issues, including sharing information regarding potential attacks. However, \"we have not figured out what they are up to,\" Judd confided, since it is clear that the \"Iranians want ISAF to bleed...slowly.\"OTTAWA 00000918 003.2 OF 00312. (U) Dr. Cohen has cleared this message.Visit Canada,s Economy and Environment Forum at http://www.intelink.gov/communities/state/can adaWILKINS", "tags": ["Canada", "Pakistan", "Iran", "Afghanistan", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US foreign policy", "The US embassy cables", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US embassy cables: Terror suspects, Canada and the law"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:06:41Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When you're constantly hopping between different cultures (I host a television travel show), it's easy to put your foot in it. Recently, I rudely laughed at a friend when he told me that a bar in Canada's Yukon Territory served the most disgusting drink in the world.You generally have to head east to savour the exotic fringes of world cuisine: live baby mice in China, boiled spiders in Cambodia, fertilised duck eggs in the Philippines. In Canada, you can buy beaver tails, but that's just the name for deep-fried sugared pastries. I had belittled my friend because the legendary Sour Toe Cocktail, as served in Yukon's Dawson City, could not possibly be real. After all, why would you drop a severed human toe into a beverage? Really, I just didn't think Canada had it in her.Dawson City boomed as a major centre of the short-lived Klondike Gold Rush. Between 1896 and 1898, the population swelled to 40,000, and it was the largest city north of San Francisco. By 1902, the gold had dried up, along with dreams of fame and fortune. Dawson City quickly turned into a small outpost with sinking wooden storefronts; the population fell to 1,300.In 1973, a local eccentric was thinking of a way to capitalise on the summer tourist traffic heading to the Top of the World Highway. Captain Dick, as he is known, found a severed toe in an old log cabin. Now, when the temperature plummets to -55C, men are known to do strange things, including, as Gold Rush poems suggest, set themselves on fire to avoid dying of cold.A veteran inhabitant of the territory who has braved an entire winter there is known as a Yukon Sourdough. (They have a winter festival in the capital, Whitehorse.) Captain Dick dropped the toe into a glass of champagne, and called it the Sour Toe Cocktail. He started a club, crowning himself the Toe Captain. To join it, all you had to do was take a drink and let the toe touch your lips. Word spread. The legend was born.Nearly four decades later, I walk into the Downtown Hotel, chilled to my bones. Captain Al, tonight's Toe Captain, is awaiting new customers at the bar. Behind the counter sits the eighth toe, preserved in a jar of salt. Over the years, toes have been stolen, lost and, in some cases, swallowed. The 8th toe is a sickeningly big digit, donated by an American who lost it in a lawnmower accident.I pay $5 for a tumbler of Yukon Gold whiskey (the cocktail is available with any drink now, even non-alcoholic ones), and $5 to join the club. There's no doubting the authenticity of the digit. It's yellowed and pickled by the salt, with a broken nail. My stomach lurches. Captain Al launches into a well-rehearsed ritual: \"Drink it fast, or drink it slow, but either way, your lips must touch this gnarly looking toe!\"I close my eyes, taste the whiskey, and indulge in this ceremony of cocktail cannibalism. Not too bad, perhaps a little too much toe-jam on the high notes.Captain Al tells me the club has over 60,000 members. Anyone of drinking age can join, and since the Downtown Hotel is not responsible for what you put in your drink after you've bought it, the health authorities are powerless to do much about it. Tourists now visit Dawson City specifically to go toe-to-toe with this challenging libation, much as Captain Dick anticipated.With my name logged in the book, I received a card confirming membership of the Sour Toe Cocktail Club \u2013 and then immediately emailed my friend to apologise for having dismissed his story.\u2022 sourtoecocktailclub.com. Double rooms at the Downtown Hotel, Dawson City (+1 867 993 5346, downtownhotel.ca) cost from \u00a372 a nightRobin Esrock (robinesrock.com) co-hosts Word Travels on the Travel Channel", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Robin Esrock in Canada"},{"date": "2010-12-14T20:33:58Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Wednesday, 09 July 2008, 18:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 03 OTTAWA 000918 C O R R E C T E D COPY//SUBJECT LINE////////////////////////////////// NOFORN SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 07/09/2018 TAGS PREL, PTER, MOPS, IR, PK, AF, CA SUBJECT: COUNSELOR, CSIS DIRECTOR DISCUSS CT THREATS, PAKISTAN, AFGHANISTAN, IRANREF: A. OTTAWA 360 B. OTTAWA 808 C. OTTAWA 850 D. OTTAWA 878OTTAWA 00000918 001.2 OF 003Classified By: PolMinCouns Scott Bellard, reasons, 1.4 (b) and (d).1. (S/NF) Summary. Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) Director Judd discussed domestic and foreign terror threats with Counselor of the State Department Cohen in Ottawa on July 2. Judd admitted that CSIS was increasingly distracted from its mission by legal challenges that could endanger foreign intelligence-sharing with Canadian agencies. He predicted that the upcoming release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr's interrogation by Canadian officials would lead to heightened pressure on the government to press for his return to Canada, which the government would continue to resist. Judd shared Dr. Cohen's negative assessment of current political, economic, and security trends in Pakistan, and was worried about what it would mean for the ISAF mission in Afghanistan. Canada has begun formulating an inter-agency Pakistan strategy, and CSIS had agreed to open a channel to Iran's intelligence service which Judd has not yet \"figured out.\" (Septel will cover Dr. Cohen's discussions regarding Pakistan and the OEF and ISAF missions in Afghanistan.) End summary.2. (S/NF) Counselor of the Department of State Eliot Cohen and CSIS Director Jim Judd in Ottawa on July 2 discussed threats posed by violent Islamist groups in Canada, and recent developments in Pakistan and Afghanistan. (CSIS is Canada's lead agency for national security intelligence.) Director Judd ascribed an \"Alice in Wonderland\" worldview to Canadians and their courts, whose judges have tied CSIS \"in knots,\" making it ever more difficult to detect and prevent terror attacks in Canada and abroad. The situation, he commented, left government security agencies on the defensive and losing public support for their effort to protect Canada and its allies.Legal Wrangling Risks Chill Effect----------------------------------3. (S/NF) XXXXXXXXXXXX4. (S/NF) Judd derided recent judgments in Canada's courts that threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- Qthat threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- and information-sharing with Canada. These judgments posit that Canadian authorities cannot use information that \"may have been\" derived from torture, and that any Canadian public official who conveys such information may be subject to criminal prosecution. This, he commented, put the government in a reverse-onus situation whereby it would have to \"prove\" the innocence of partner nations in the face of assumed wrongdoing.5. (S/NF) Judd credited Prime Minister Stephen Harper's minority Conservative government for \"taking it on the chin and pressing ahead\" with common sense measures despite court challenges and political knocks from the opposition and interest groups. When asked to look to the future, Judd predicted that Canada would soon implement UK-like legal procedures that make intelligence available to \"vetted defense lawyers who see everything the judge sees.\"OTTAWA 00000918 002.2 OF 003Terror Cases and Communities Present Mixed Pictures--------------------------------------------- ------6. (C/NF) Judd commented that cherry-picked sections of the court-ordered release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr (ref D) would likely show three (Canadian) adults interrogating a kid who breaks down in tears. He observed that the images would no doubt trigger \"knee-jerk anti-Americanism\" and \"paroxysms of moral outrage, a Canadian specialty,\" as well as lead to a new round of heightened pressure on the government to press for Khadr's return to Canada. He predicted that PM Harper's government would nonetheless continue to resist this pressure. 7. (C) The Director mentioned other major cases that also presented CSIS with major legal headaches due to the use of intelligence products in their development: Momin Khawaja has been on trial for his role in an Al Qaeda UK bomb plot since June 23 in the first major test of Canada's 2001 Anti-Terrorism Act, and Canada's ability to protect intelligence supplied by foreign government sources (ref D); the trial of the first of the home-grown Toronto 11 (down from 18) terror plotters, which is also now underway; and, the prosecution of XXXXXXXXXXXX.8. (C) Judd said he viewed Khawaja and his \"ilk\" as outliers, due in part to the fact that Canada's ethnic Pakistani community is unlike its ghettoized and poorly educated UK counterpart. It is largely made up of traders, lawyers, doctors, engineers, and others who see promise for themselves and their children in North America, he observed, so its members are unlikely to engage in domestic terror plots. He said that therefore CSIS main domestic focus is instead on fundraising and procurement, as well as the recruitment of a small number of Canadian \"wannabes\" of Pakistani origin for mostly overseas operations.Pakistan and Afghanistan------------------------9. (C) Turning to Pakistan, Counselor Cohen briefed his recent trip to Islamabad and Peshawar, noting his alarm at the degrading economic, political, and security situation there, and its implications for Pakistan, Afghan, and regional stability. Judd responded that Dr. Cohen's sober assessment tracked with CSIS' own view of Pakistan, and that \"it is hard to see a good outcome there\" due to that country's political, economic, and security failures, on top of fast-rising oil and food prices. Canada does not have an explicit strategy for Pakistan, Judd said, but Privy Council Deputy Secretary David Mulroney (who leads the interagency on Afghanistan) now has the lead on developing one (septel). Dr. Cohen remarked, and Judd agreed, that it would be necessary to avoid approaching Pakistan as simply an adjunct to the ISAF and OEF missions in Afghanistan.10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Q10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Afghanistan, Judd asserted, due in part to Karzai's weak leadership, widespread corruption, the lack of will to press ahead on counter-narcotics, limited Afghan security force capability (particularly the police) and, most recently, the Sarpoza prison break. He commented that CSIS had seen Sarpoza coming, and its link to the Quetta Shura in Pakistan, but could not get a handle on the timing.Iranian Outreach----------------11. (S/NF) Judd added that he and his colleagues are \"very, very worried\" about Iran. CSIS recently talked to Iran's Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS) after that agency requested its own channel of communication to Canada, he said. The Iranians agreed to \"help\" on Afghan issues, including sharing information regarding potential attacks. However, \"we have not figured out what they are up to,\" Judd confided, since it is clear that the \"Iranians want ISAF to bleed...slowly.\"OTTAWA 00000918 003.2 OF 00312. (U) Dr. Cohen has cleared this message.Visit Canada,s Economy and Environment Forum at http://www.intelink.gov/communities/state/can adaWILKINS", "tags": ["Canada", "Pakistan", "Iran", "Afghanistan", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US foreign policy", "The US embassy cables", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US embassy cables: Terror suspects, Canada and the law"},{"date": "2010-11-09T12:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine if you took the historic records of everyone who died in the first world war. Then you matched them to one area to see how it had been affected. Or if you wanted to see if one part of your city had an epidemic of bedbugs. Or if you wanted to find out where the most guns are.This is the work of data journalist Patrick Cain, quietly and methodically producing strikingly interesting maps of his home city of Toronto. It's the pinnacle of what data journalism is supposed to be about. And, if you're looking for innovative data journalism, vast open data resources and the latest open data apps, Canada is a good place to start.Enthralled by open data initiatives around the world, Canadians from Ottawa to Vancouver are embracing spreadsheets as never before \u2013 and producing great work which you don't often hear about outside the country.Patrick Cain works by doggedly pursuing datasets, often from official sources which don't want to know \u2013 but bolstered by a powerful freedom of information system:If something is uncontroversial (like dog licences by postal code) there are often no issues about releasing it. On the other side, we have the sex offender database, which I've been trying to get access to since the spring in 2008. Sometimes there is ineffective resistance, like the landlord and tenant appeal board that tried to get me to sign a non-disclosure agreement. Mostly I get things in the mail as the law demands \u2026 Everybody (including me) likes the rage-against-the-machine stories, but in the majority of cases the system works more or less as intended.Cain is one of the most established of the new breed. Names mentioned by those in the know include Chad Skelton on the Vancouver Sun, Rob Cribb at the Toronto Star; David McKie at CBC and Glen McGregor at the Ottawa Citizen.Toronto's open data intitiative is run by a small team of enthusiasts in the city authority's web department. Led by Trish Garner, the unit updates the site every day with raw datasets from local election results to detailed boundary mapping. And all in addition to their day job of keeping the city's tech running. She's inspired by the worldwide open data movement. I think there's a large community of developers in Toronto and across Canada which is inspired by what's going on in the UK and in the US under the Obama administration and want to see change here at home. A good majority have registered with us and are quite avidly following what we're doing.Politically, she says support is growing:There has been solid support from the very top - our Mayor - and from the City Clerk and the CIO. Indications are that the mayor-elect [Rob Ford was elected earlier this month] will also be a champion. This is key for us. I have to say, too, that it wouldn't be possible to carry on without the constructive feedback and support we've received from the developer community and the dedication and enthusiasm of a bright, highly motivated, energetic team. They love what they do and they have fun.The Canadian government is consulting on an open data policy and recently, Canada's biggest open data sites \u2013 Toronto, Vancouver, Ottawa and Edmonton \u2013 have started getting together to set a series of open data standards. Jury Konga, who has been helping to create the G4 Open Data Framework (you can see some of his presentations here) says cities all over Canada are jumping onto the open data train: you can see our collection of Canadian open data sites here. He adds:Canada is a hive of activity in Open Government and Open Data and I only see it increasing \u2026 We have also seen Open Data surface in the political realm where the Liberal Party of Canada recently put forward a new policy of Open Gov - Open Data and mayoral candidates in Toronto advocated increasing the Open Data program in Toronto \u2026 I am escstatic with the progress we've made BUT there is much more to do.Here are some apps built with Open Toronto data - is there anything you've built we should list? Post it in the comment field below.Two different approaches to Toronto's recent municipal elections, both using the city's live ward by ward election feed and results. ShareToronto has done the same in other Canadian city electionsTwitter live bulletins from the city's huge traffic boardsTakes Canadian data \u2013 including from Toronto \u2013 and maps it to give you a complete local picture of the cityTakes the city's realtime travel information to map exactly where each tram is. Will eventually include buses and metro trainsUses the city's cycle routes data to help plan bike journeysFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Search the world's government datasets\u2022 More environment data\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Free our data", "Government data", "Technology", "Americas", "Data journalism"], "title": "How Canada became an open data and data journalism powerhouse"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:06:41Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When you're constantly hopping between different cultures (I host a television travel show), it's easy to put your foot in it. Recently, I rudely laughed at a friend when he told me that a bar in Canada's Yukon Territory served the most disgusting drink in the world.You generally have to head east to savour the exotic fringes of world cuisine: live baby mice in China, boiled spiders in Cambodia, fertilised duck eggs in the Philippines. In Canada, you can buy beaver tails, but that's just the name for deep-fried sugared pastries. I had belittled my friend because the legendary Sour Toe Cocktail, as served in Yukon's Dawson City, could not possibly be real. After all, why would you drop a severed human toe into a beverage? Really, I just didn't think Canada had it in her.Dawson City boomed as a major centre of the short-lived Klondike Gold Rush. Between 1896 and 1898, the population swelled to 40,000, and it was the largest city north of San Francisco. By 1902, the gold had dried up, along with dreams of fame and fortune. Dawson City quickly turned into a small outpost with sinking wooden storefronts; the population fell to 1,300.In 1973, a local eccentric was thinking of a way to capitalise on the summer tourist traffic heading to the Top of the World Highway. Captain Dick, as he is known, found a severed toe in an old log cabin. Now, when the temperature plummets to -55C, men are known to do strange things, including, as Gold Rush poems suggest, set themselves on fire to avoid dying of cold.A veteran inhabitant of the territory who has braved an entire winter there is known as a Yukon Sourdough. (They have a winter festival in the capital, Whitehorse.) Captain Dick dropped the toe into a glass of champagne, and called it the Sour Toe Cocktail. He started a club, crowning himself the Toe Captain. To join it, all you had to do was take a drink and let the toe touch your lips. Word spread. The legend was born.Nearly four decades later, I walk into the Downtown Hotel, chilled to my bones. Captain Al, tonight's Toe Captain, is awaiting new customers at the bar. Behind the counter sits the eighth toe, preserved in a jar of salt. Over the years, toes have been stolen, lost and, in some cases, swallowed. The 8th toe is a sickeningly big digit, donated by an American who lost it in a lawnmower accident.I pay $5 for a tumbler of Yukon Gold whiskey (the cocktail is available with any drink now, even non-alcoholic ones), and $5 to join the club. There's no doubting the authenticity of the digit. It's yellowed and pickled by the salt, with a broken nail. My stomach lurches. Captain Al launches into a well-rehearsed ritual: \"Drink it fast, or drink it slow, but either way, your lips must touch this gnarly looking toe!\"I close my eyes, taste the whiskey, and indulge in this ceremony of cocktail cannibalism. Not too bad, perhaps a little too much toe-jam on the high notes.Captain Al tells me the club has over 60,000 members. Anyone of drinking age can join, and since the Downtown Hotel is not responsible for what you put in your drink after you've bought it, the health authorities are powerless to do much about it. Tourists now visit Dawson City specifically to go toe-to-toe with this challenging libation, much as Captain Dick anticipated.With my name logged in the book, I received a card confirming membership of the Sour Toe Cocktail Club \u2013 and then immediately emailed my friend to apologise for having dismissed his story.\u2022 sourtoecocktailclub.com. Double rooms at the Downtown Hotel, Dawson City (+1 867 993 5346, downtownhotel.ca) cost from \u00a372 a nightRobin Esrock (robinesrock.com) co-hosts Word Travels on the Travel Channel", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Robin Esrock in Canada"},{"date": "2010-12-14T20:33:58Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Wednesday, 09 July 2008, 18:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 03 OTTAWA 000918 C O R R E C T E D COPY//SUBJECT LINE////////////////////////////////// NOFORN SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 07/09/2018 TAGS PREL, PTER, MOPS, IR, PK, AF, CA SUBJECT: COUNSELOR, CSIS DIRECTOR DISCUSS CT THREATS, PAKISTAN, AFGHANISTAN, IRANREF: A. OTTAWA 360 B. OTTAWA 808 C. OTTAWA 850 D. OTTAWA 878OTTAWA 00000918 001.2 OF 003Classified By: PolMinCouns Scott Bellard, reasons, 1.4 (b) and (d).1. (S/NF) Summary. Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) Director Judd discussed domestic and foreign terror threats with Counselor of the State Department Cohen in Ottawa on July 2. Judd admitted that CSIS was increasingly distracted from its mission by legal challenges that could endanger foreign intelligence-sharing with Canadian agencies. He predicted that the upcoming release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr's interrogation by Canadian officials would lead to heightened pressure on the government to press for his return to Canada, which the government would continue to resist. Judd shared Dr. Cohen's negative assessment of current political, economic, and security trends in Pakistan, and was worried about what it would mean for the ISAF mission in Afghanistan. Canada has begun formulating an inter-agency Pakistan strategy, and CSIS had agreed to open a channel to Iran's intelligence service which Judd has not yet \"figured out.\" (Septel will cover Dr. Cohen's discussions regarding Pakistan and the OEF and ISAF missions in Afghanistan.) End summary.2. (S/NF) Counselor of the Department of State Eliot Cohen and CSIS Director Jim Judd in Ottawa on July 2 discussed threats posed by violent Islamist groups in Canada, and recent developments in Pakistan and Afghanistan. (CSIS is Canada's lead agency for national security intelligence.) Director Judd ascribed an \"Alice in Wonderland\" worldview to Canadians and their courts, whose judges have tied CSIS \"in knots,\" making it ever more difficult to detect and prevent terror attacks in Canada and abroad. The situation, he commented, left government security agencies on the defensive and losing public support for their effort to protect Canada and its allies.Legal Wrangling Risks Chill Effect----------------------------------3. (S/NF) XXXXXXXXXXXX4. (S/NF) Judd derided recent judgments in Canada's courts that threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- Qthat threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- and information-sharing with Canada. These judgments posit that Canadian authorities cannot use information that \"may have been\" derived from torture, and that any Canadian public official who conveys such information may be subject to criminal prosecution. This, he commented, put the government in a reverse-onus situation whereby it would have to \"prove\" the innocence of partner nations in the face of assumed wrongdoing.5. (S/NF) Judd credited Prime Minister Stephen Harper's minority Conservative government for \"taking it on the chin and pressing ahead\" with common sense measures despite court challenges and political knocks from the opposition and interest groups. When asked to look to the future, Judd predicted that Canada would soon implement UK-like legal procedures that make intelligence available to \"vetted defense lawyers who see everything the judge sees.\"OTTAWA 00000918 002.2 OF 003Terror Cases and Communities Present Mixed Pictures--------------------------------------------- ------6. (C/NF) Judd commented that cherry-picked sections of the court-ordered release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr (ref D) would likely show three (Canadian) adults interrogating a kid who breaks down in tears. He observed that the images would no doubt trigger \"knee-jerk anti-Americanism\" and \"paroxysms of moral outrage, a Canadian specialty,\" as well as lead to a new round of heightened pressure on the government to press for Khadr's return to Canada. He predicted that PM Harper's government would nonetheless continue to resist this pressure. 7. (C) The Director mentioned other major cases that also presented CSIS with major legal headaches due to the use of intelligence products in their development: Momin Khawaja has been on trial for his role in an Al Qaeda UK bomb plot since June 23 in the first major test of Canada's 2001 Anti-Terrorism Act, and Canada's ability to protect intelligence supplied by foreign government sources (ref D); the trial of the first of the home-grown Toronto 11 (down from 18) terror plotters, which is also now underway; and, the prosecution of XXXXXXXXXXXX.8. (C) Judd said he viewed Khawaja and his \"ilk\" as outliers, due in part to the fact that Canada's ethnic Pakistani community is unlike its ghettoized and poorly educated UK counterpart. It is largely made up of traders, lawyers, doctors, engineers, and others who see promise for themselves and their children in North America, he observed, so its members are unlikely to engage in domestic terror plots. He said that therefore CSIS main domestic focus is instead on fundraising and procurement, as well as the recruitment of a small number of Canadian \"wannabes\" of Pakistani origin for mostly overseas operations.Pakistan and Afghanistan------------------------9. (C) Turning to Pakistan, Counselor Cohen briefed his recent trip to Islamabad and Peshawar, noting his alarm at the degrading economic, political, and security situation there, and its implications for Pakistan, Afghan, and regional stability. Judd responded that Dr. Cohen's sober assessment tracked with CSIS' own view of Pakistan, and that \"it is hard to see a good outcome there\" due to that country's political, economic, and security failures, on top of fast-rising oil and food prices. Canada does not have an explicit strategy for Pakistan, Judd said, but Privy Council Deputy Secretary David Mulroney (who leads the interagency on Afghanistan) now has the lead on developing one (septel). Dr. Cohen remarked, and Judd agreed, that it would be necessary to avoid approaching Pakistan as simply an adjunct to the ISAF and OEF missions in Afghanistan.10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Q10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Afghanistan, Judd asserted, due in part to Karzai's weak leadership, widespread corruption, the lack of will to press ahead on counter-narcotics, limited Afghan security force capability (particularly the police) and, most recently, the Sarpoza prison break. He commented that CSIS had seen Sarpoza coming, and its link to the Quetta Shura in Pakistan, but could not get a handle on the timing.Iranian Outreach----------------11. (S/NF) Judd added that he and his colleagues are \"very, very worried\" about Iran. CSIS recently talked to Iran's Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS) after that agency requested its own channel of communication to Canada, he said. The Iranians agreed to \"help\" on Afghan issues, including sharing information regarding potential attacks. However, \"we have not figured out what they are up to,\" Judd confided, since it is clear that the \"Iranians want ISAF to bleed...slowly.\"OTTAWA 00000918 003.2 OF 00312. (U) Dr. Cohen has cleared this message.Visit Canada,s Economy and Environment Forum at http://www.intelink.gov/communities/state/can adaWILKINS", "tags": ["Canada", "Pakistan", "Iran", "Afghanistan", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US foreign policy", "The US embassy cables", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US embassy cables: Terror suspects, Canada and the law"},{"date": "2010-11-09T12:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine if you took the historic records of everyone who died in the first world war. Then you matched them to one area to see how it had been affected. Or if you wanted to see if one part of your city had an epidemic of bedbugs. Or if you wanted to find out where the most guns are.This is the work of data journalist Patrick Cain, quietly and methodically producing strikingly interesting maps of his home city of Toronto. It's the pinnacle of what data journalism is supposed to be about. And, if you're looking for innovative data journalism, vast open data resources and the latest open data apps, Canada is a good place to start.Enthralled by open data initiatives around the world, Canadians from Ottawa to Vancouver are embracing spreadsheets as never before \u2013 and producing great work which you don't often hear about outside the country.Patrick Cain works by doggedly pursuing datasets, often from official sources which don't want to know \u2013 but bolstered by a powerful freedom of information system:If something is uncontroversial (like dog licences by postal code) there are often no issues about releasing it. On the other side, we have the sex offender database, which I've been trying to get access to since the spring in 2008. Sometimes there is ineffective resistance, like the landlord and tenant appeal board that tried to get me to sign a non-disclosure agreement. Mostly I get things in the mail as the law demands \u2026 Everybody (including me) likes the rage-against-the-machine stories, but in the majority of cases the system works more or less as intended.Cain is one of the most established of the new breed. Names mentioned by those in the know include Chad Skelton on the Vancouver Sun, Rob Cribb at the Toronto Star; David McKie at CBC and Glen McGregor at the Ottawa Citizen.Toronto's open data intitiative is run by a small team of enthusiasts in the city authority's web department. Led by Trish Garner, the unit updates the site every day with raw datasets from local election results to detailed boundary mapping. And all in addition to their day job of keeping the city's tech running. She's inspired by the worldwide open data movement. I think there's a large community of developers in Toronto and across Canada which is inspired by what's going on in the UK and in the US under the Obama administration and want to see change here at home. A good majority have registered with us and are quite avidly following what we're doing.Politically, she says support is growing:There has been solid support from the very top - our Mayor - and from the City Clerk and the CIO. Indications are that the mayor-elect [Rob Ford was elected earlier this month] will also be a champion. This is key for us. I have to say, too, that it wouldn't be possible to carry on without the constructive feedback and support we've received from the developer community and the dedication and enthusiasm of a bright, highly motivated, energetic team. They love what they do and they have fun.The Canadian government is consulting on an open data policy and recently, Canada's biggest open data sites \u2013 Toronto, Vancouver, Ottawa and Edmonton \u2013 have started getting together to set a series of open data standards. Jury Konga, who has been helping to create the G4 Open Data Framework (you can see some of his presentations here) says cities all over Canada are jumping onto the open data train: you can see our collection of Canadian open data sites here. He adds:Canada is a hive of activity in Open Government and Open Data and I only see it increasing \u2026 We have also seen Open Data surface in the political realm where the Liberal Party of Canada recently put forward a new policy of Open Gov - Open Data and mayoral candidates in Toronto advocated increasing the Open Data program in Toronto \u2026 I am escstatic with the progress we've made BUT there is much more to do.Here are some apps built with Open Toronto data - is there anything you've built we should list? Post it in the comment field below.Two different approaches to Toronto's recent municipal elections, both using the city's live ward by ward election feed and results. ShareToronto has done the same in other Canadian city electionsTwitter live bulletins from the city's huge traffic boardsTakes Canadian data \u2013 including from Toronto \u2013 and maps it to give you a complete local picture of the cityTakes the city's realtime travel information to map exactly where each tram is. Will eventually include buses and metro trainsUses the city's cycle routes data to help plan bike journeysFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Search the world's government datasets\u2022 More environment data\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Free our data", "Government data", "Technology", "Americas", "Data journalism"], "title": "How Canada became an open data and data journalism powerhouse"},{"date": "2010-11-03T00:06:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is poised to rule on whether to approve a \u00a324bn hostile takeover of Potash Corporation by Anglo-Australian mining group BHP Billiton.The takeover is part of an international struggle to secure global commodity supplies against a backdrop of soaring demand and population growth in emerging economies.Potash Corporation, based in Saskatchewan, is one of Canada's largest companies and the world's biggest producer of potash, a key ingredient of food fertiliser. Demand for potash has leapt as countries such as China and India seek to boost crop yields to meet increased consumption, especially among a burgeoning middle class.But the hostile bid for Potash by BHP, headed by South African-born Marius Kloppers, has run into opposition from Saskatchewan, as well as other Canadian state governments, who argue it is foolhardy to hand a fifth of global potash supplies to a foreign firm.Now the ball is in the court of the federal government which must decide by midnight Canadian time today (4.00am GMT) whether BHP's move will be a net benefit to Canada and meet stringent foreign investment rules.Reports from Canada have indicated that Ottawa could sanction the deal, but only if BHP agrees to spend billions on Canadian infrastructure projects to compensate Canada for lost royalty and tax payments.Analysts say Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper is being pulled in different directions; protectionists argue it would be \"criminal\" to hand over one of the country's crown jewels to an overseas multinational, while champions of free trade fear that Canadian companies could face tit-for-tat measures when they seek to expand overseas if Harper blocks BHP.\"The devil will be in the detail,\" said one analyst, \"if the strings attached are too stretching for BHP, it could affect to what extent it sweetens its offer; or whether it offers anything extra at all,\" he adds.As potash prices have been heading north since BHP first tabled its hostile bid in August, brokers have argued BHP will have to raise its offer price to persuade 50% of Potash's shareholders to accept the deal.City sources suggest Kloppers could offer 10% above the current price of $130 a share to a level nearer $145, although analysts at UBS argue BHP may have to go as high as $165; BHP's major shareholders intimate that would be too high.BHP is determined not to overpay and can point to the fact that its bid is the only one on the table. China's Sinochem sought to enter the fray with backing from Canadian pension funds and Temasek of Singapore, but the Chinese were put off by a report from Saskatchewan that hinted a bid from a state-owned company would be unwelcome. The Canadians also said that as a consumer and a producer, it would be in Sinochem's interests to keep prices low, limiting the size of tax receipts.Kloppers is betting an increasingly hungry world will pay dearly for potash as BHP makes its first major move into the global food industry.With demand for grain rising and less farmland available per person, the need for fertiliser - especially potash - has never been greater. BHP's bid is not just an attempt to diversify: it is a major bet that rising food demand will cause a significant growth in the use of the fertiliser.According to Potash Corp's website, more people are eating meat, and as incomes rise in developing nations, millions of people are switching from starch to protein-based diets. Every pound of beef requires seven pounds of grain to produce, and this has a substantial impact on demand, according to experts.", "tags": ["BHP Billiton", "Canada", "Australia news", "Mining", "Business", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Canada ready to rule on Potash takeover by BHP Billiton"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:06:41Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When you're constantly hopping between different cultures (I host a television travel show), it's easy to put your foot in it. Recently, I rudely laughed at a friend when he told me that a bar in Canada's Yukon Territory served the most disgusting drink in the world.You generally have to head east to savour the exotic fringes of world cuisine: live baby mice in China, boiled spiders in Cambodia, fertilised duck eggs in the Philippines. In Canada, you can buy beaver tails, but that's just the name for deep-fried sugared pastries. I had belittled my friend because the legendary Sour Toe Cocktail, as served in Yukon's Dawson City, could not possibly be real. After all, why would you drop a severed human toe into a beverage? Really, I just didn't think Canada had it in her.Dawson City boomed as a major centre of the short-lived Klondike Gold Rush. Between 1896 and 1898, the population swelled to 40,000, and it was the largest city north of San Francisco. By 1902, the gold had dried up, along with dreams of fame and fortune. Dawson City quickly turned into a small outpost with sinking wooden storefronts; the population fell to 1,300.In 1973, a local eccentric was thinking of a way to capitalise on the summer tourist traffic heading to the Top of the World Highway. Captain Dick, as he is known, found a severed toe in an old log cabin. Now, when the temperature plummets to -55C, men are known to do strange things, including, as Gold Rush poems suggest, set themselves on fire to avoid dying of cold.A veteran inhabitant of the territory who has braved an entire winter there is known as a Yukon Sourdough. (They have a winter festival in the capital, Whitehorse.) Captain Dick dropped the toe into a glass of champagne, and called it the Sour Toe Cocktail. He started a club, crowning himself the Toe Captain. To join it, all you had to do was take a drink and let the toe touch your lips. Word spread. The legend was born.Nearly four decades later, I walk into the Downtown Hotel, chilled to my bones. Captain Al, tonight's Toe Captain, is awaiting new customers at the bar. Behind the counter sits the eighth toe, preserved in a jar of salt. Over the years, toes have been stolen, lost and, in some cases, swallowed. The 8th toe is a sickeningly big digit, donated by an American who lost it in a lawnmower accident.I pay $5 for a tumbler of Yukon Gold whiskey (the cocktail is available with any drink now, even non-alcoholic ones), and $5 to join the club. There's no doubting the authenticity of the digit. It's yellowed and pickled by the salt, with a broken nail. My stomach lurches. Captain Al launches into a well-rehearsed ritual: \"Drink it fast, or drink it slow, but either way, your lips must touch this gnarly looking toe!\"I close my eyes, taste the whiskey, and indulge in this ceremony of cocktail cannibalism. Not too bad, perhaps a little too much toe-jam on the high notes.Captain Al tells me the club has over 60,000 members. Anyone of drinking age can join, and since the Downtown Hotel is not responsible for what you put in your drink after you've bought it, the health authorities are powerless to do much about it. Tourists now visit Dawson City specifically to go toe-to-toe with this challenging libation, much as Captain Dick anticipated.With my name logged in the book, I received a card confirming membership of the Sour Toe Cocktail Club \u2013 and then immediately emailed my friend to apologise for having dismissed his story.\u2022 sourtoecocktailclub.com. Double rooms at the Downtown Hotel, Dawson City (+1 867 993 5346, downtownhotel.ca) cost from \u00a372 a nightRobin Esrock (robinesrock.com) co-hosts Word Travels on the Travel Channel", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Robin Esrock in Canada"},{"date": "2010-12-14T20:33:58Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Wednesday, 09 July 2008, 18:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 03 OTTAWA 000918 C O R R E C T E D COPY//SUBJECT LINE////////////////////////////////// NOFORN SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 07/09/2018 TAGS PREL, PTER, MOPS, IR, PK, AF, CA SUBJECT: COUNSELOR, CSIS DIRECTOR DISCUSS CT THREATS, PAKISTAN, AFGHANISTAN, IRANREF: A. OTTAWA 360 B. OTTAWA 808 C. OTTAWA 850 D. OTTAWA 878OTTAWA 00000918 001.2 OF 003Classified By: PolMinCouns Scott Bellard, reasons, 1.4 (b) and (d).1. (S/NF) Summary. Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) Director Judd discussed domestic and foreign terror threats with Counselor of the State Department Cohen in Ottawa on July 2. Judd admitted that CSIS was increasingly distracted from its mission by legal challenges that could endanger foreign intelligence-sharing with Canadian agencies. He predicted that the upcoming release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr's interrogation by Canadian officials would lead to heightened pressure on the government to press for his return to Canada, which the government would continue to resist. Judd shared Dr. Cohen's negative assessment of current political, economic, and security trends in Pakistan, and was worried about what it would mean for the ISAF mission in Afghanistan. Canada has begun formulating an inter-agency Pakistan strategy, and CSIS had agreed to open a channel to Iran's intelligence service which Judd has not yet \"figured out.\" (Septel will cover Dr. Cohen's discussions regarding Pakistan and the OEF and ISAF missions in Afghanistan.) End summary.2. (S/NF) Counselor of the Department of State Eliot Cohen and CSIS Director Jim Judd in Ottawa on July 2 discussed threats posed by violent Islamist groups in Canada, and recent developments in Pakistan and Afghanistan. (CSIS is Canada's lead agency for national security intelligence.) Director Judd ascribed an \"Alice in Wonderland\" worldview to Canadians and their courts, whose judges have tied CSIS \"in knots,\" making it ever more difficult to detect and prevent terror attacks in Canada and abroad. The situation, he commented, left government security agencies on the defensive and losing public support for their effort to protect Canada and its allies.Legal Wrangling Risks Chill Effect----------------------------------3. (S/NF) XXXXXXXXXXXX4. (S/NF) Judd derided recent judgments in Canada's courts that threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- Qthat threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- and information-sharing with Canada. These judgments posit that Canadian authorities cannot use information that \"may have been\" derived from torture, and that any Canadian public official who conveys such information may be subject to criminal prosecution. This, he commented, put the government in a reverse-onus situation whereby it would have to \"prove\" the innocence of partner nations in the face of assumed wrongdoing.5. (S/NF) Judd credited Prime Minister Stephen Harper's minority Conservative government for \"taking it on the chin and pressing ahead\" with common sense measures despite court challenges and political knocks from the opposition and interest groups. When asked to look to the future, Judd predicted that Canada would soon implement UK-like legal procedures that make intelligence available to \"vetted defense lawyers who see everything the judge sees.\"OTTAWA 00000918 002.2 OF 003Terror Cases and Communities Present Mixed Pictures--------------------------------------------- ------6. (C/NF) Judd commented that cherry-picked sections of the court-ordered release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr (ref D) would likely show three (Canadian) adults interrogating a kid who breaks down in tears. He observed that the images would no doubt trigger \"knee-jerk anti-Americanism\" and \"paroxysms of moral outrage, a Canadian specialty,\" as well as lead to a new round of heightened pressure on the government to press for Khadr's return to Canada. He predicted that PM Harper's government would nonetheless continue to resist this pressure. 7. (C) The Director mentioned other major cases that also presented CSIS with major legal headaches due to the use of intelligence products in their development: Momin Khawaja has been on trial for his role in an Al Qaeda UK bomb plot since June 23 in the first major test of Canada's 2001 Anti-Terrorism Act, and Canada's ability to protect intelligence supplied by foreign government sources (ref D); the trial of the first of the home-grown Toronto 11 (down from 18) terror plotters, which is also now underway; and, the prosecution of XXXXXXXXXXXX.8. (C) Judd said he viewed Khawaja and his \"ilk\" as outliers, due in part to the fact that Canada's ethnic Pakistani community is unlike its ghettoized and poorly educated UK counterpart. It is largely made up of traders, lawyers, doctors, engineers, and others who see promise for themselves and their children in North America, he observed, so its members are unlikely to engage in domestic terror plots. He said that therefore CSIS main domestic focus is instead on fundraising and procurement, as well as the recruitment of a small number of Canadian \"wannabes\" of Pakistani origin for mostly overseas operations.Pakistan and Afghanistan------------------------9. (C) Turning to Pakistan, Counselor Cohen briefed his recent trip to Islamabad and Peshawar, noting his alarm at the degrading economic, political, and security situation there, and its implications for Pakistan, Afghan, and regional stability. Judd responded that Dr. Cohen's sober assessment tracked with CSIS' own view of Pakistan, and that \"it is hard to see a good outcome there\" due to that country's political, economic, and security failures, on top of fast-rising oil and food prices. Canada does not have an explicit strategy for Pakistan, Judd said, but Privy Council Deputy Secretary David Mulroney (who leads the interagency on Afghanistan) now has the lead on developing one (septel). Dr. Cohen remarked, and Judd agreed, that it would be necessary to avoid approaching Pakistan as simply an adjunct to the ISAF and OEF missions in Afghanistan.10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Q10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Afghanistan, Judd asserted, due in part to Karzai's weak leadership, widespread corruption, the lack of will to press ahead on counter-narcotics, limited Afghan security force capability (particularly the police) and, most recently, the Sarpoza prison break. He commented that CSIS had seen Sarpoza coming, and its link to the Quetta Shura in Pakistan, but could not get a handle on the timing.Iranian Outreach----------------11. (S/NF) Judd added that he and his colleagues are \"very, very worried\" about Iran. CSIS recently talked to Iran's Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS) after that agency requested its own channel of communication to Canada, he said. The Iranians agreed to \"help\" on Afghan issues, including sharing information regarding potential attacks. However, \"we have not figured out what they are up to,\" Judd confided, since it is clear that the \"Iranians want ISAF to bleed...slowly.\"OTTAWA 00000918 003.2 OF 00312. (U) Dr. Cohen has cleared this message.Visit Canada,s Economy and Environment Forum at http://www.intelink.gov/communities/state/can adaWILKINS", "tags": ["Canada", "Pakistan", "Iran", "Afghanistan", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US foreign policy", "The US embassy cables", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US embassy cables: Terror suspects, Canada and the law"},{"date": "2010-11-09T12:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine if you took the historic records of everyone who died in the first world war. Then you matched them to one area to see how it had been affected. Or if you wanted to see if one part of your city had an epidemic of bedbugs. Or if you wanted to find out where the most guns are.This is the work of data journalist Patrick Cain, quietly and methodically producing strikingly interesting maps of his home city of Toronto. It's the pinnacle of what data journalism is supposed to be about. And, if you're looking for innovative data journalism, vast open data resources and the latest open data apps, Canada is a good place to start.Enthralled by open data initiatives around the world, Canadians from Ottawa to Vancouver are embracing spreadsheets as never before \u2013 and producing great work which you don't often hear about outside the country.Patrick Cain works by doggedly pursuing datasets, often from official sources which don't want to know \u2013 but bolstered by a powerful freedom of information system:If something is uncontroversial (like dog licences by postal code) there are often no issues about releasing it. On the other side, we have the sex offender database, which I've been trying to get access to since the spring in 2008. Sometimes there is ineffective resistance, like the landlord and tenant appeal board that tried to get me to sign a non-disclosure agreement. Mostly I get things in the mail as the law demands \u2026 Everybody (including me) likes the rage-against-the-machine stories, but in the majority of cases the system works more or less as intended.Cain is one of the most established of the new breed. Names mentioned by those in the know include Chad Skelton on the Vancouver Sun, Rob Cribb at the Toronto Star; David McKie at CBC and Glen McGregor at the Ottawa Citizen.Toronto's open data intitiative is run by a small team of enthusiasts in the city authority's web department. Led by Trish Garner, the unit updates the site every day with raw datasets from local election results to detailed boundary mapping. And all in addition to their day job of keeping the city's tech running. She's inspired by the worldwide open data movement. I think there's a large community of developers in Toronto and across Canada which is inspired by what's going on in the UK and in the US under the Obama administration and want to see change here at home. A good majority have registered with us and are quite avidly following what we're doing.Politically, she says support is growing:There has been solid support from the very top - our Mayor - and from the City Clerk and the CIO. Indications are that the mayor-elect [Rob Ford was elected earlier this month] will also be a champion. This is key for us. I have to say, too, that it wouldn't be possible to carry on without the constructive feedback and support we've received from the developer community and the dedication and enthusiasm of a bright, highly motivated, energetic team. They love what they do and they have fun.The Canadian government is consulting on an open data policy and recently, Canada's biggest open data sites \u2013 Toronto, Vancouver, Ottawa and Edmonton \u2013 have started getting together to set a series of open data standards. Jury Konga, who has been helping to create the G4 Open Data Framework (you can see some of his presentations here) says cities all over Canada are jumping onto the open data train: you can see our collection of Canadian open data sites here. He adds:Canada is a hive of activity in Open Government and Open Data and I only see it increasing \u2026 We have also seen Open Data surface in the political realm where the Liberal Party of Canada recently put forward a new policy of Open Gov - Open Data and mayoral candidates in Toronto advocated increasing the Open Data program in Toronto \u2026 I am escstatic with the progress we've made BUT there is much more to do.Here are some apps built with Open Toronto data - is there anything you've built we should list? Post it in the comment field below.Two different approaches to Toronto's recent municipal elections, both using the city's live ward by ward election feed and results. ShareToronto has done the same in other Canadian city electionsTwitter live bulletins from the city's huge traffic boardsTakes Canadian data \u2013 including from Toronto \u2013 and maps it to give you a complete local picture of the cityTakes the city's realtime travel information to map exactly where each tram is. Will eventually include buses and metro trainsUses the city's cycle routes data to help plan bike journeysFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Search the world's government datasets\u2022 More environment data\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Free our data", "Government data", "Technology", "Americas", "Data journalism"], "title": "How Canada became an open data and data journalism powerhouse"},{"date": "2010-11-03T00:06:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is poised to rule on whether to approve a \u00a324bn hostile takeover of Potash Corporation by Anglo-Australian mining group BHP Billiton.The takeover is part of an international struggle to secure global commodity supplies against a backdrop of soaring demand and population growth in emerging economies.Potash Corporation, based in Saskatchewan, is one of Canada's largest companies and the world's biggest producer of potash, a key ingredient of food fertiliser. Demand for potash has leapt as countries such as China and India seek to boost crop yields to meet increased consumption, especially among a burgeoning middle class.But the hostile bid for Potash by BHP, headed by South African-born Marius Kloppers, has run into opposition from Saskatchewan, as well as other Canadian state governments, who argue it is foolhardy to hand a fifth of global potash supplies to a foreign firm.Now the ball is in the court of the federal government which must decide by midnight Canadian time today (4.00am GMT) whether BHP's move will be a net benefit to Canada and meet stringent foreign investment rules.Reports from Canada have indicated that Ottawa could sanction the deal, but only if BHP agrees to spend billions on Canadian infrastructure projects to compensate Canada for lost royalty and tax payments.Analysts say Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper is being pulled in different directions; protectionists argue it would be \"criminal\" to hand over one of the country's crown jewels to an overseas multinational, while champions of free trade fear that Canadian companies could face tit-for-tat measures when they seek to expand overseas if Harper blocks BHP.\"The devil will be in the detail,\" said one analyst, \"if the strings attached are too stretching for BHP, it could affect to what extent it sweetens its offer; or whether it offers anything extra at all,\" he adds.As potash prices have been heading north since BHP first tabled its hostile bid in August, brokers have argued BHP will have to raise its offer price to persuade 50% of Potash's shareholders to accept the deal.City sources suggest Kloppers could offer 10% above the current price of $130 a share to a level nearer $145, although analysts at UBS argue BHP may have to go as high as $165; BHP's major shareholders intimate that would be too high.BHP is determined not to overpay and can point to the fact that its bid is the only one on the table. China's Sinochem sought to enter the fray with backing from Canadian pension funds and Temasek of Singapore, but the Chinese were put off by a report from Saskatchewan that hinted a bid from a state-owned company would be unwelcome. The Canadians also said that as a consumer and a producer, it would be in Sinochem's interests to keep prices low, limiting the size of tax receipts.Kloppers is betting an increasingly hungry world will pay dearly for potash as BHP makes its first major move into the global food industry.With demand for grain rising and less farmland available per person, the need for fertiliser - especially potash - has never been greater. BHP's bid is not just an attempt to diversify: it is a major bet that rising food demand will cause a significant growth in the use of the fertiliser.According to Potash Corp's website, more people are eating meat, and as incomes rise in developing nations, millions of people are switching from starch to protein-based diets. Every pound of beef requires seven pounds of grain to produce, and this has a substantial impact on demand, according to experts.", "tags": ["BHP Billiton", "Canada", "Australia news", "Mining", "Business", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Canada ready to rule on Potash takeover by BHP Billiton"},{"date": "2010-10-05T19:45:23Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Geoffrey Canada, the man credited with turning around black under-achievement in Harlem and the star guest at conference, has told Michael Gove that the teaching unions are the biggest threat to the education secretary's reforms.Canada has been hailed as a pioneer in education by Barack Obama. In an interview with the Guardian, Canada said he had told Gove that in the UK the unions constituted an inflexible brake which was \"killing\" the innovation necessary to transform children's lives, and that they \"cover up\" for failing teachers.Canada said: \"Our charter schools were not unionised. My contract with my teachers is fair, and is two pages. The union contract is 200 pages. You cannot manage your business when you cannot make any decision without going back to 200 pages worth of stuff.\"So that is inflexible. It kills innovation; it stops anything from changing. The only thing that we can do is what we did last year, and last year was another failure. So that to me makes no sense.\"Canada's advice is a challenge to England's main teaching unions, which are opposed to coalition plans to expand academies and free schools, arguing they do not believe these schools raise standards, while costing more money to run and creating social segregation.Asked what advice he had given Gove, Canada said: \"I have been very clear that this union issue has to be at the forefront if you're going to bring about reform.\"It's uncomfortable and people get anxious about it. But I just think you have to have the conversation; and until we began to have that conversation in the States, there was no sense that you have any movement and momentum building towards reform.\"Until the unions come up with a real plan for improving schools that have failed \u2013 that doesn't do what they have done [in the past] \u2013 I think they don't have a really strong argument why they should be in this conversation in terms of what the future is going to be.\"Canada grew up in a poor part of the New York Bronx, but went on to study at a prestigious liberal arts college and then specialise in education at Harvard.He set up a not-for-profit organisation in Harlem where all the services a child and parent should get \u2013 from antenatal tips to skills training and after school services \u2013 are provided.Called the Harlem Children's Zone, it has grown to cover 97 blocks. Obama has called for 20 similar \"promise neighbourhoods\" to do the same, across the US. Canada is now the subject of a film, Waiting for Superman, made by the director of An Inconvenient Truth.The inability to sack bad teachers was a \"real problem\", and removing them from the profession should be made a priority, Canada said.\"Most teachers are decent, and some are really great. But there are also some who are lousy, and should not be in the profession. And the inability to get rid of these teachers, I think, is a real problem, and should be a priority, because it's pretty indefensible.\"Unions that cover up for people who we know should not be in the profession, that's a problem; when it is explicit that you may not get rid of these people.\"Addressing the conference ahead of Gove's speech, Canada said he had earned unpopularity for calling attention to America's educational decline.\"I've been making sure everybody knows we have lost our way. We offer our children a third world education system. We are not in the top ten, and in many cases we are not even in the top 20. The fact is, we have mishandled the education system.\"Where his project operates in New York, public schools have been failing for 53 years, he said.\"Fifty-three years?\" he put it to conference. \"All those generations. What has been the consequence of that failure? Has anyone changed anything? Even though it hasn't worked for 53 years?\"Education is the only billion dollar industry that tolerates abject failure. Any other business that failed so spectacularly for fifty years, it would be out of business.\"Explaining his methods to conference, Canada said he tracked children from birth to college.\"You stop those kids at birth and you stay with those kids. You teach them the soft skills or learning, to shake off a disappointment, learning to concentrate. And you take responsibility.\"When we started our school, in Harlem, I said to our mayor \u2026 and I said to my board of trustees, I said \u2013 if I don't have a better school in five years than all the other private schools, I'm going to fire myself. And then I got my staff in and said 'but you all know I'll be the last one leaving'.\"", "tags": ["Conservative conference 2010", "Education policy", "Trade unions", "Conservative conference", "Teaching", "UK news"], "title": "Geoffrey Canada warns Michael Gove teaching unions 'kill' innovation"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:06:41Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When you're constantly hopping between different cultures (I host a television travel show), it's easy to put your foot in it. Recently, I rudely laughed at a friend when he told me that a bar in Canada's Yukon Territory served the most disgusting drink in the world.You generally have to head east to savour the exotic fringes of world cuisine: live baby mice in China, boiled spiders in Cambodia, fertilised duck eggs in the Philippines. In Canada, you can buy beaver tails, but that's just the name for deep-fried sugared pastries. I had belittled my friend because the legendary Sour Toe Cocktail, as served in Yukon's Dawson City, could not possibly be real. After all, why would you drop a severed human toe into a beverage? Really, I just didn't think Canada had it in her.Dawson City boomed as a major centre of the short-lived Klondike Gold Rush. Between 1896 and 1898, the population swelled to 40,000, and it was the largest city north of San Francisco. By 1902, the gold had dried up, along with dreams of fame and fortune. Dawson City quickly turned into a small outpost with sinking wooden storefronts; the population fell to 1,300.In 1973, a local eccentric was thinking of a way to capitalise on the summer tourist traffic heading to the Top of the World Highway. Captain Dick, as he is known, found a severed toe in an old log cabin. Now, when the temperature plummets to -55C, men are known to do strange things, including, as Gold Rush poems suggest, set themselves on fire to avoid dying of cold.A veteran inhabitant of the territory who has braved an entire winter there is known as a Yukon Sourdough. (They have a winter festival in the capital, Whitehorse.) Captain Dick dropped the toe into a glass of champagne, and called it the Sour Toe Cocktail. He started a club, crowning himself the Toe Captain. To join it, all you had to do was take a drink and let the toe touch your lips. Word spread. The legend was born.Nearly four decades later, I walk into the Downtown Hotel, chilled to my bones. Captain Al, tonight's Toe Captain, is awaiting new customers at the bar. Behind the counter sits the eighth toe, preserved in a jar of salt. Over the years, toes have been stolen, lost and, in some cases, swallowed. The 8th toe is a sickeningly big digit, donated by an American who lost it in a lawnmower accident.I pay $5 for a tumbler of Yukon Gold whiskey (the cocktail is available with any drink now, even non-alcoholic ones), and $5 to join the club. There's no doubting the authenticity of the digit. It's yellowed and pickled by the salt, with a broken nail. My stomach lurches. Captain Al launches into a well-rehearsed ritual: \"Drink it fast, or drink it slow, but either way, your lips must touch this gnarly looking toe!\"I close my eyes, taste the whiskey, and indulge in this ceremony of cocktail cannibalism. Not too bad, perhaps a little too much toe-jam on the high notes.Captain Al tells me the club has over 60,000 members. Anyone of drinking age can join, and since the Downtown Hotel is not responsible for what you put in your drink after you've bought it, the health authorities are powerless to do much about it. Tourists now visit Dawson City specifically to go toe-to-toe with this challenging libation, much as Captain Dick anticipated.With my name logged in the book, I received a card confirming membership of the Sour Toe Cocktail Club \u2013 and then immediately emailed my friend to apologise for having dismissed his story.\u2022 sourtoecocktailclub.com. Double rooms at the Downtown Hotel, Dawson City (+1 867 993 5346, downtownhotel.ca) cost from \u00a372 a nightRobin Esrock (robinesrock.com) co-hosts Word Travels on the Travel Channel", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Robin Esrock in Canada"},{"date": "2010-12-14T20:33:58Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Wednesday, 09 July 2008, 18:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 03 OTTAWA 000918 C O R R E C T E D COPY//SUBJECT LINE////////////////////////////////// NOFORN SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 07/09/2018 TAGS PREL, PTER, MOPS, IR, PK, AF, CA SUBJECT: COUNSELOR, CSIS DIRECTOR DISCUSS CT THREATS, PAKISTAN, AFGHANISTAN, IRANREF: A. OTTAWA 360 B. OTTAWA 808 C. OTTAWA 850 D. OTTAWA 878OTTAWA 00000918 001.2 OF 003Classified By: PolMinCouns Scott Bellard, reasons, 1.4 (b) and (d).1. (S/NF) Summary. Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) Director Judd discussed domestic and foreign terror threats with Counselor of the State Department Cohen in Ottawa on July 2. Judd admitted that CSIS was increasingly distracted from its mission by legal challenges that could endanger foreign intelligence-sharing with Canadian agencies. He predicted that the upcoming release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr's interrogation by Canadian officials would lead to heightened pressure on the government to press for his return to Canada, which the government would continue to resist. Judd shared Dr. Cohen's negative assessment of current political, economic, and security trends in Pakistan, and was worried about what it would mean for the ISAF mission in Afghanistan. Canada has begun formulating an inter-agency Pakistan strategy, and CSIS had agreed to open a channel to Iran's intelligence service which Judd has not yet \"figured out.\" (Septel will cover Dr. Cohen's discussions regarding Pakistan and the OEF and ISAF missions in Afghanistan.) End summary.2. (S/NF) Counselor of the Department of State Eliot Cohen and CSIS Director Jim Judd in Ottawa on July 2 discussed threats posed by violent Islamist groups in Canada, and recent developments in Pakistan and Afghanistan. (CSIS is Canada's lead agency for national security intelligence.) Director Judd ascribed an \"Alice in Wonderland\" worldview to Canadians and their courts, whose judges have tied CSIS \"in knots,\" making it ever more difficult to detect and prevent terror attacks in Canada and abroad. The situation, he commented, left government security agencies on the defensive and losing public support for their effort to protect Canada and its allies.Legal Wrangling Risks Chill Effect----------------------------------3. (S/NF) XXXXXXXXXXXX4. (S/NF) Judd derided recent judgments in Canada's courts that threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- Qthat threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- and information-sharing with Canada. These judgments posit that Canadian authorities cannot use information that \"may have been\" derived from torture, and that any Canadian public official who conveys such information may be subject to criminal prosecution. This, he commented, put the government in a reverse-onus situation whereby it would have to \"prove\" the innocence of partner nations in the face of assumed wrongdoing.5. (S/NF) Judd credited Prime Minister Stephen Harper's minority Conservative government for \"taking it on the chin and pressing ahead\" with common sense measures despite court challenges and political knocks from the opposition and interest groups. When asked to look to the future, Judd predicted that Canada would soon implement UK-like legal procedures that make intelligence available to \"vetted defense lawyers who see everything the judge sees.\"OTTAWA 00000918 002.2 OF 003Terror Cases and Communities Present Mixed Pictures--------------------------------------------- ------6. (C/NF) Judd commented that cherry-picked sections of the court-ordered release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr (ref D) would likely show three (Canadian) adults interrogating a kid who breaks down in tears. He observed that the images would no doubt trigger \"knee-jerk anti-Americanism\" and \"paroxysms of moral outrage, a Canadian specialty,\" as well as lead to a new round of heightened pressure on the government to press for Khadr's return to Canada. He predicted that PM Harper's government would nonetheless continue to resist this pressure. 7. (C) The Director mentioned other major cases that also presented CSIS with major legal headaches due to the use of intelligence products in their development: Momin Khawaja has been on trial for his role in an Al Qaeda UK bomb plot since June 23 in the first major test of Canada's 2001 Anti-Terrorism Act, and Canada's ability to protect intelligence supplied by foreign government sources (ref D); the trial of the first of the home-grown Toronto 11 (down from 18) terror plotters, which is also now underway; and, the prosecution of XXXXXXXXXXXX.8. (C) Judd said he viewed Khawaja and his \"ilk\" as outliers, due in part to the fact that Canada's ethnic Pakistani community is unlike its ghettoized and poorly educated UK counterpart. It is largely made up of traders, lawyers, doctors, engineers, and others who see promise for themselves and their children in North America, he observed, so its members are unlikely to engage in domestic terror plots. He said that therefore CSIS main domestic focus is instead on fundraising and procurement, as well as the recruitment of a small number of Canadian \"wannabes\" of Pakistani origin for mostly overseas operations.Pakistan and Afghanistan------------------------9. (C) Turning to Pakistan, Counselor Cohen briefed his recent trip to Islamabad and Peshawar, noting his alarm at the degrading economic, political, and security situation there, and its implications for Pakistan, Afghan, and regional stability. Judd responded that Dr. Cohen's sober assessment tracked with CSIS' own view of Pakistan, and that \"it is hard to see a good outcome there\" due to that country's political, economic, and security failures, on top of fast-rising oil and food prices. Canada does not have an explicit strategy for Pakistan, Judd said, but Privy Council Deputy Secretary David Mulroney (who leads the interagency on Afghanistan) now has the lead on developing one (septel). Dr. Cohen remarked, and Judd agreed, that it would be necessary to avoid approaching Pakistan as simply an adjunct to the ISAF and OEF missions in Afghanistan.10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Q10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Afghanistan, Judd asserted, due in part to Karzai's weak leadership, widespread corruption, the lack of will to press ahead on counter-narcotics, limited Afghan security force capability (particularly the police) and, most recently, the Sarpoza prison break. He commented that CSIS had seen Sarpoza coming, and its link to the Quetta Shura in Pakistan, but could not get a handle on the timing.Iranian Outreach----------------11. (S/NF) Judd added that he and his colleagues are \"very, very worried\" about Iran. CSIS recently talked to Iran's Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS) after that agency requested its own channel of communication to Canada, he said. The Iranians agreed to \"help\" on Afghan issues, including sharing information regarding potential attacks. However, \"we have not figured out what they are up to,\" Judd confided, since it is clear that the \"Iranians want ISAF to bleed...slowly.\"OTTAWA 00000918 003.2 OF 00312. (U) Dr. Cohen has cleared this message.Visit Canada,s Economy and Environment Forum at http://www.intelink.gov/communities/state/can adaWILKINS", "tags": ["Canada", "Pakistan", "Iran", "Afghanistan", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US foreign policy", "The US embassy cables", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US embassy cables: Terror suspects, Canada and the law"},{"date": "2010-11-09T12:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine if you took the historic records of everyone who died in the first world war. Then you matched them to one area to see how it had been affected. Or if you wanted to see if one part of your city had an epidemic of bedbugs. Or if you wanted to find out where the most guns are.This is the work of data journalist Patrick Cain, quietly and methodically producing strikingly interesting maps of his home city of Toronto. It's the pinnacle of what data journalism is supposed to be about. And, if you're looking for innovative data journalism, vast open data resources and the latest open data apps, Canada is a good place to start.Enthralled by open data initiatives around the world, Canadians from Ottawa to Vancouver are embracing spreadsheets as never before \u2013 and producing great work which you don't often hear about outside the country.Patrick Cain works by doggedly pursuing datasets, often from official sources which don't want to know \u2013 but bolstered by a powerful freedom of information system:If something is uncontroversial (like dog licences by postal code) there are often no issues about releasing it. On the other side, we have the sex offender database, which I've been trying to get access to since the spring in 2008. Sometimes there is ineffective resistance, like the landlord and tenant appeal board that tried to get me to sign a non-disclosure agreement. Mostly I get things in the mail as the law demands \u2026 Everybody (including me) likes the rage-against-the-machine stories, but in the majority of cases the system works more or less as intended.Cain is one of the most established of the new breed. Names mentioned by those in the know include Chad Skelton on the Vancouver Sun, Rob Cribb at the Toronto Star; David McKie at CBC and Glen McGregor at the Ottawa Citizen.Toronto's open data intitiative is run by a small team of enthusiasts in the city authority's web department. Led by Trish Garner, the unit updates the site every day with raw datasets from local election results to detailed boundary mapping. And all in addition to their day job of keeping the city's tech running. She's inspired by the worldwide open data movement. I think there's a large community of developers in Toronto and across Canada which is inspired by what's going on in the UK and in the US under the Obama administration and want to see change here at home. A good majority have registered with us and are quite avidly following what we're doing.Politically, she says support is growing:There has been solid support from the very top - our Mayor - and from the City Clerk and the CIO. Indications are that the mayor-elect [Rob Ford was elected earlier this month] will also be a champion. This is key for us. I have to say, too, that it wouldn't be possible to carry on without the constructive feedback and support we've received from the developer community and the dedication and enthusiasm of a bright, highly motivated, energetic team. They love what they do and they have fun.The Canadian government is consulting on an open data policy and recently, Canada's biggest open data sites \u2013 Toronto, Vancouver, Ottawa and Edmonton \u2013 have started getting together to set a series of open data standards. Jury Konga, who has been helping to create the G4 Open Data Framework (you can see some of his presentations here) says cities all over Canada are jumping onto the open data train: you can see our collection of Canadian open data sites here. He adds:Canada is a hive of activity in Open Government and Open Data and I only see it increasing \u2026 We have also seen Open Data surface in the political realm where the Liberal Party of Canada recently put forward a new policy of Open Gov - Open Data and mayoral candidates in Toronto advocated increasing the Open Data program in Toronto \u2026 I am escstatic with the progress we've made BUT there is much more to do.Here are some apps built with Open Toronto data - is there anything you've built we should list? Post it in the comment field below.Two different approaches to Toronto's recent municipal elections, both using the city's live ward by ward election feed and results. ShareToronto has done the same in other Canadian city electionsTwitter live bulletins from the city's huge traffic boardsTakes Canadian data \u2013 including from Toronto \u2013 and maps it to give you a complete local picture of the cityTakes the city's realtime travel information to map exactly where each tram is. Will eventually include buses and metro trainsUses the city's cycle routes data to help plan bike journeysFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Search the world's government datasets\u2022 More environment data\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Free our data", "Government data", "Technology", "Americas", "Data journalism"], "title": "How Canada became an open data and data journalism powerhouse"},{"date": "2010-11-03T00:06:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is poised to rule on whether to approve a \u00a324bn hostile takeover of Potash Corporation by Anglo-Australian mining group BHP Billiton.The takeover is part of an international struggle to secure global commodity supplies against a backdrop of soaring demand and population growth in emerging economies.Potash Corporation, based in Saskatchewan, is one of Canada's largest companies and the world's biggest producer of potash, a key ingredient of food fertiliser. Demand for potash has leapt as countries such as China and India seek to boost crop yields to meet increased consumption, especially among a burgeoning middle class.But the hostile bid for Potash by BHP, headed by South African-born Marius Kloppers, has run into opposition from Saskatchewan, as well as other Canadian state governments, who argue it is foolhardy to hand a fifth of global potash supplies to a foreign firm.Now the ball is in the court of the federal government which must decide by midnight Canadian time today (4.00am GMT) whether BHP's move will be a net benefit to Canada and meet stringent foreign investment rules.Reports from Canada have indicated that Ottawa could sanction the deal, but only if BHP agrees to spend billions on Canadian infrastructure projects to compensate Canada for lost royalty and tax payments.Analysts say Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper is being pulled in different directions; protectionists argue it would be \"criminal\" to hand over one of the country's crown jewels to an overseas multinational, while champions of free trade fear that Canadian companies could face tit-for-tat measures when they seek to expand overseas if Harper blocks BHP.\"The devil will be in the detail,\" said one analyst, \"if the strings attached are too stretching for BHP, it could affect to what extent it sweetens its offer; or whether it offers anything extra at all,\" he adds.As potash prices have been heading north since BHP first tabled its hostile bid in August, brokers have argued BHP will have to raise its offer price to persuade 50% of Potash's shareholders to accept the deal.City sources suggest Kloppers could offer 10% above the current price of $130 a share to a level nearer $145, although analysts at UBS argue BHP may have to go as high as $165; BHP's major shareholders intimate that would be too high.BHP is determined not to overpay and can point to the fact that its bid is the only one on the table. China's Sinochem sought to enter the fray with backing from Canadian pension funds and Temasek of Singapore, but the Chinese were put off by a report from Saskatchewan that hinted a bid from a state-owned company would be unwelcome. The Canadians also said that as a consumer and a producer, it would be in Sinochem's interests to keep prices low, limiting the size of tax receipts.Kloppers is betting an increasingly hungry world will pay dearly for potash as BHP makes its first major move into the global food industry.With demand for grain rising and less farmland available per person, the need for fertiliser - especially potash - has never been greater. BHP's bid is not just an attempt to diversify: it is a major bet that rising food demand will cause a significant growth in the use of the fertiliser.According to Potash Corp's website, more people are eating meat, and as incomes rise in developing nations, millions of people are switching from starch to protein-based diets. Every pound of beef requires seven pounds of grain to produce, and this has a substantial impact on demand, according to experts.", "tags": ["BHP Billiton", "Canada", "Australia news", "Mining", "Business", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Canada ready to rule on Potash takeover by BHP Billiton"},{"date": "2010-10-05T19:45:23Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Geoffrey Canada, the man credited with turning around black under-achievement in Harlem and the star guest at conference, has told Michael Gove that the teaching unions are the biggest threat to the education secretary's reforms.Canada has been hailed as a pioneer in education by Barack Obama. In an interview with the Guardian, Canada said he had told Gove that in the UK the unions constituted an inflexible brake which was \"killing\" the innovation necessary to transform children's lives, and that they \"cover up\" for failing teachers.Canada said: \"Our charter schools were not unionised. My contract with my teachers is fair, and is two pages. The union contract is 200 pages. You cannot manage your business when you cannot make any decision without going back to 200 pages worth of stuff.\"So that is inflexible. It kills innovation; it stops anything from changing. The only thing that we can do is what we did last year, and last year was another failure. So that to me makes no sense.\"Canada's advice is a challenge to England's main teaching unions, which are opposed to coalition plans to expand academies and free schools, arguing they do not believe these schools raise standards, while costing more money to run and creating social segregation.Asked what advice he had given Gove, Canada said: \"I have been very clear that this union issue has to be at the forefront if you're going to bring about reform.\"It's uncomfortable and people get anxious about it. But I just think you have to have the conversation; and until we began to have that conversation in the States, there was no sense that you have any movement and momentum building towards reform.\"Until the unions come up with a real plan for improving schools that have failed \u2013 that doesn't do what they have done [in the past] \u2013 I think they don't have a really strong argument why they should be in this conversation in terms of what the future is going to be.\"Canada grew up in a poor part of the New York Bronx, but went on to study at a prestigious liberal arts college and then specialise in education at Harvard.He set up a not-for-profit organisation in Harlem where all the services a child and parent should get \u2013 from antenatal tips to skills training and after school services \u2013 are provided.Called the Harlem Children's Zone, it has grown to cover 97 blocks. Obama has called for 20 similar \"promise neighbourhoods\" to do the same, across the US. Canada is now the subject of a film, Waiting for Superman, made by the director of An Inconvenient Truth.The inability to sack bad teachers was a \"real problem\", and removing them from the profession should be made a priority, Canada said.\"Most teachers are decent, and some are really great. But there are also some who are lousy, and should not be in the profession. And the inability to get rid of these teachers, I think, is a real problem, and should be a priority, because it's pretty indefensible.\"Unions that cover up for people who we know should not be in the profession, that's a problem; when it is explicit that you may not get rid of these people.\"Addressing the conference ahead of Gove's speech, Canada said he had earned unpopularity for calling attention to America's educational decline.\"I've been making sure everybody knows we have lost our way. We offer our children a third world education system. We are not in the top ten, and in many cases we are not even in the top 20. The fact is, we have mishandled the education system.\"Where his project operates in New York, public schools have been failing for 53 years, he said.\"Fifty-three years?\" he put it to conference. \"All those generations. What has been the consequence of that failure? Has anyone changed anything? Even though it hasn't worked for 53 years?\"Education is the only billion dollar industry that tolerates abject failure. Any other business that failed so spectacularly for fifty years, it would be out of business.\"Explaining his methods to conference, Canada said he tracked children from birth to college.\"You stop those kids at birth and you stay with those kids. You teach them the soft skills or learning, to shake off a disappointment, learning to concentrate. And you take responsibility.\"When we started our school, in Harlem, I said to our mayor \u2026 and I said to my board of trustees, I said \u2013 if I don't have a better school in five years than all the other private schools, I'm going to fire myself. And then I got my staff in and said 'but you all know I'll be the last one leaving'.\"", "tags": ["Conservative conference 2010", "Education policy", "Trade unions", "Conservative conference", "Teaching", "UK news"], "title": "Geoffrey Canada warns Michael Gove teaching unions 'kill' innovation"},{"date": "2010-11-25T21:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After fruitless job-hunting in the UK, my husband has had two job offers from Canada. Neither is ideal. The first is in a prairie town where, to quote someone who knows, \"The winters are long and frigid, the summers are boiling and with bugs the size of your head.\" It is quite a large place but in the middle of nowhere. Coming back to see family in the UK would be horrible with two small children, but it is, apparently, the most friendly place in the world.The second is in Quebec. It looks more cosmopolitan and cool. It is much closer \u2013 a six-hour drive to family \u2013 and it is nearer to the UK. The problem is my French is awful (I am willing to work on that) but also, I have been told the people can be very insular and frosty. The thought of speaking in another language all day makes me feel exhausted even thinking about it. Not accepting one or other is not an option. What would you do?\u2022 If you would like to respond to this week's problem, please post your comment below.When leaving a message on this page, please be sensitive to the fact that you are responding to a real person in the grip of a real-life dilemma, who wrote to Private Lives asking for help, and may well view your comments here. Please consider especially how your words or the tone of your message could be perceived by someone in this situation, and be aware that comments which appear to be disruptive or disrespectful to the individual concerned will not appear.\u2022 If you would like fellow readers to respond to a dilemma of yours, send us an outline of the situation of around 150 words. For advice from Pamela Stephenson Connolly on sexual matters, send us a brief description of your concerns.\u2022 All correspondence should reach us by Wednesday morning. Email: private.lives@theguardian.com (please don't send attachments).", "tags": ["Life and style", "Canada holidays"], "title": "A remote prairie town in Canada or French-speaking Quebec \u2013 where do we live?"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:06:41Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When you're constantly hopping between different cultures (I host a television travel show), it's easy to put your foot in it. Recently, I rudely laughed at a friend when he told me that a bar in Canada's Yukon Territory served the most disgusting drink in the world.You generally have to head east to savour the exotic fringes of world cuisine: live baby mice in China, boiled spiders in Cambodia, fertilised duck eggs in the Philippines. In Canada, you can buy beaver tails, but that's just the name for deep-fried sugared pastries. I had belittled my friend because the legendary Sour Toe Cocktail, as served in Yukon's Dawson City, could not possibly be real. After all, why would you drop a severed human toe into a beverage? Really, I just didn't think Canada had it in her.Dawson City boomed as a major centre of the short-lived Klondike Gold Rush. Between 1896 and 1898, the population swelled to 40,000, and it was the largest city north of San Francisco. By 1902, the gold had dried up, along with dreams of fame and fortune. Dawson City quickly turned into a small outpost with sinking wooden storefronts; the population fell to 1,300.In 1973, a local eccentric was thinking of a way to capitalise on the summer tourist traffic heading to the Top of the World Highway. Captain Dick, as he is known, found a severed toe in an old log cabin. Now, when the temperature plummets to -55C, men are known to do strange things, including, as Gold Rush poems suggest, set themselves on fire to avoid dying of cold.A veteran inhabitant of the territory who has braved an entire winter there is known as a Yukon Sourdough. (They have a winter festival in the capital, Whitehorse.) Captain Dick dropped the toe into a glass of champagne, and called it the Sour Toe Cocktail. He started a club, crowning himself the Toe Captain. To join it, all you had to do was take a drink and let the toe touch your lips. Word spread. The legend was born.Nearly four decades later, I walk into the Downtown Hotel, chilled to my bones. Captain Al, tonight's Toe Captain, is awaiting new customers at the bar. Behind the counter sits the eighth toe, preserved in a jar of salt. Over the years, toes have been stolen, lost and, in some cases, swallowed. The 8th toe is a sickeningly big digit, donated by an American who lost it in a lawnmower accident.I pay $5 for a tumbler of Yukon Gold whiskey (the cocktail is available with any drink now, even non-alcoholic ones), and $5 to join the club. There's no doubting the authenticity of the digit. It's yellowed and pickled by the salt, with a broken nail. My stomach lurches. Captain Al launches into a well-rehearsed ritual: \"Drink it fast, or drink it slow, but either way, your lips must touch this gnarly looking toe!\"I close my eyes, taste the whiskey, and indulge in this ceremony of cocktail cannibalism. Not too bad, perhaps a little too much toe-jam on the high notes.Captain Al tells me the club has over 60,000 members. Anyone of drinking age can join, and since the Downtown Hotel is not responsible for what you put in your drink after you've bought it, the health authorities are powerless to do much about it. Tourists now visit Dawson City specifically to go toe-to-toe with this challenging libation, much as Captain Dick anticipated.With my name logged in the book, I received a card confirming membership of the Sour Toe Cocktail Club \u2013 and then immediately emailed my friend to apologise for having dismissed his story.\u2022 sourtoecocktailclub.com. Double rooms at the Downtown Hotel, Dawson City (+1 867 993 5346, downtownhotel.ca) cost from \u00a372 a nightRobin Esrock (robinesrock.com) co-hosts Word Travels on the Travel Channel", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Robin Esrock in Canada"},{"date": "2010-12-14T20:33:58Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Wednesday, 09 July 2008, 18:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 03 OTTAWA 000918 C O R R E C T E D COPY//SUBJECT LINE////////////////////////////////// NOFORN SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 07/09/2018 TAGS PREL, PTER, MOPS, IR, PK, AF, CA SUBJECT: COUNSELOR, CSIS DIRECTOR DISCUSS CT THREATS, PAKISTAN, AFGHANISTAN, IRANREF: A. OTTAWA 360 B. OTTAWA 808 C. OTTAWA 850 D. OTTAWA 878OTTAWA 00000918 001.2 OF 003Classified By: PolMinCouns Scott Bellard, reasons, 1.4 (b) and (d).1. (S/NF) Summary. Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) Director Judd discussed domestic and foreign terror threats with Counselor of the State Department Cohen in Ottawa on July 2. Judd admitted that CSIS was increasingly distracted from its mission by legal challenges that could endanger foreign intelligence-sharing with Canadian agencies. He predicted that the upcoming release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr's interrogation by Canadian officials would lead to heightened pressure on the government to press for his return to Canada, which the government would continue to resist. Judd shared Dr. Cohen's negative assessment of current political, economic, and security trends in Pakistan, and was worried about what it would mean for the ISAF mission in Afghanistan. Canada has begun formulating an inter-agency Pakistan strategy, and CSIS had agreed to open a channel to Iran's intelligence service which Judd has not yet \"figured out.\" (Septel will cover Dr. Cohen's discussions regarding Pakistan and the OEF and ISAF missions in Afghanistan.) End summary.2. (S/NF) Counselor of the Department of State Eliot Cohen and CSIS Director Jim Judd in Ottawa on July 2 discussed threats posed by violent Islamist groups in Canada, and recent developments in Pakistan and Afghanistan. (CSIS is Canada's lead agency for national security intelligence.) Director Judd ascribed an \"Alice in Wonderland\" worldview to Canadians and their courts, whose judges have tied CSIS \"in knots,\" making it ever more difficult to detect and prevent terror attacks in Canada and abroad. The situation, he commented, left government security agencies on the defensive and losing public support for their effort to protect Canada and its allies.Legal Wrangling Risks Chill Effect----------------------------------3. (S/NF) XXXXXXXXXXXX4. (S/NF) Judd derided recent judgments in Canada's courts that threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- Qthat threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- and information-sharing with Canada. These judgments posit that Canadian authorities cannot use information that \"may have been\" derived from torture, and that any Canadian public official who conveys such information may be subject to criminal prosecution. This, he commented, put the government in a reverse-onus situation whereby it would have to \"prove\" the innocence of partner nations in the face of assumed wrongdoing.5. (S/NF) Judd credited Prime Minister Stephen Harper's minority Conservative government for \"taking it on the chin and pressing ahead\" with common sense measures despite court challenges and political knocks from the opposition and interest groups. When asked to look to the future, Judd predicted that Canada would soon implement UK-like legal procedures that make intelligence available to \"vetted defense lawyers who see everything the judge sees.\"OTTAWA 00000918 002.2 OF 003Terror Cases and Communities Present Mixed Pictures--------------------------------------------- ------6. (C/NF) Judd commented that cherry-picked sections of the court-ordered release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr (ref D) would likely show three (Canadian) adults interrogating a kid who breaks down in tears. He observed that the images would no doubt trigger \"knee-jerk anti-Americanism\" and \"paroxysms of moral outrage, a Canadian specialty,\" as well as lead to a new round of heightened pressure on the government to press for Khadr's return to Canada. He predicted that PM Harper's government would nonetheless continue to resist this pressure. 7. (C) The Director mentioned other major cases that also presented CSIS with major legal headaches due to the use of intelligence products in their development: Momin Khawaja has been on trial for his role in an Al Qaeda UK bomb plot since June 23 in the first major test of Canada's 2001 Anti-Terrorism Act, and Canada's ability to protect intelligence supplied by foreign government sources (ref D); the trial of the first of the home-grown Toronto 11 (down from 18) terror plotters, which is also now underway; and, the prosecution of XXXXXXXXXXXX.8. (C) Judd said he viewed Khawaja and his \"ilk\" as outliers, due in part to the fact that Canada's ethnic Pakistani community is unlike its ghettoized and poorly educated UK counterpart. It is largely made up of traders, lawyers, doctors, engineers, and others who see promise for themselves and their children in North America, he observed, so its members are unlikely to engage in domestic terror plots. He said that therefore CSIS main domestic focus is instead on fundraising and procurement, as well as the recruitment of a small number of Canadian \"wannabes\" of Pakistani origin for mostly overseas operations.Pakistan and Afghanistan------------------------9. (C) Turning to Pakistan, Counselor Cohen briefed his recent trip to Islamabad and Peshawar, noting his alarm at the degrading economic, political, and security situation there, and its implications for Pakistan, Afghan, and regional stability. Judd responded that Dr. Cohen's sober assessment tracked with CSIS' own view of Pakistan, and that \"it is hard to see a good outcome there\" due to that country's political, economic, and security failures, on top of fast-rising oil and food prices. Canada does not have an explicit strategy for Pakistan, Judd said, but Privy Council Deputy Secretary David Mulroney (who leads the interagency on Afghanistan) now has the lead on developing one (septel). Dr. Cohen remarked, and Judd agreed, that it would be necessary to avoid approaching Pakistan as simply an adjunct to the ISAF and OEF missions in Afghanistan.10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Q10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Afghanistan, Judd asserted, due in part to Karzai's weak leadership, widespread corruption, the lack of will to press ahead on counter-narcotics, limited Afghan security force capability (particularly the police) and, most recently, the Sarpoza prison break. He commented that CSIS had seen Sarpoza coming, and its link to the Quetta Shura in Pakistan, but could not get a handle on the timing.Iranian Outreach----------------11. (S/NF) Judd added that he and his colleagues are \"very, very worried\" about Iran. CSIS recently talked to Iran's Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS) after that agency requested its own channel of communication to Canada, he said. The Iranians agreed to \"help\" on Afghan issues, including sharing information regarding potential attacks. However, \"we have not figured out what they are up to,\" Judd confided, since it is clear that the \"Iranians want ISAF to bleed...slowly.\"OTTAWA 00000918 003.2 OF 00312. (U) Dr. Cohen has cleared this message.Visit Canada,s Economy and Environment Forum at http://www.intelink.gov/communities/state/can adaWILKINS", "tags": ["Canada", "Pakistan", "Iran", "Afghanistan", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US foreign policy", "The US embassy cables", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US embassy cables: Terror suspects, Canada and the law"},{"date": "2010-11-09T12:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine if you took the historic records of everyone who died in the first world war. Then you matched them to one area to see how it had been affected. Or if you wanted to see if one part of your city had an epidemic of bedbugs. Or if you wanted to find out where the most guns are.This is the work of data journalist Patrick Cain, quietly and methodically producing strikingly interesting maps of his home city of Toronto. It's the pinnacle of what data journalism is supposed to be about. And, if you're looking for innovative data journalism, vast open data resources and the latest open data apps, Canada is a good place to start.Enthralled by open data initiatives around the world, Canadians from Ottawa to Vancouver are embracing spreadsheets as never before \u2013 and producing great work which you don't often hear about outside the country.Patrick Cain works by doggedly pursuing datasets, often from official sources which don't want to know \u2013 but bolstered by a powerful freedom of information system:If something is uncontroversial (like dog licences by postal code) there are often no issues about releasing it. On the other side, we have the sex offender database, which I've been trying to get access to since the spring in 2008. Sometimes there is ineffective resistance, like the landlord and tenant appeal board that tried to get me to sign a non-disclosure agreement. Mostly I get things in the mail as the law demands \u2026 Everybody (including me) likes the rage-against-the-machine stories, but in the majority of cases the system works more or less as intended.Cain is one of the most established of the new breed. Names mentioned by those in the know include Chad Skelton on the Vancouver Sun, Rob Cribb at the Toronto Star; David McKie at CBC and Glen McGregor at the Ottawa Citizen.Toronto's open data intitiative is run by a small team of enthusiasts in the city authority's web department. Led by Trish Garner, the unit updates the site every day with raw datasets from local election results to detailed boundary mapping. And all in addition to their day job of keeping the city's tech running. She's inspired by the worldwide open data movement. I think there's a large community of developers in Toronto and across Canada which is inspired by what's going on in the UK and in the US under the Obama administration and want to see change here at home. A good majority have registered with us and are quite avidly following what we're doing.Politically, she says support is growing:There has been solid support from the very top - our Mayor - and from the City Clerk and the CIO. Indications are that the mayor-elect [Rob Ford was elected earlier this month] will also be a champion. This is key for us. I have to say, too, that it wouldn't be possible to carry on without the constructive feedback and support we've received from the developer community and the dedication and enthusiasm of a bright, highly motivated, energetic team. They love what they do and they have fun.The Canadian government is consulting on an open data policy and recently, Canada's biggest open data sites \u2013 Toronto, Vancouver, Ottawa and Edmonton \u2013 have started getting together to set a series of open data standards. Jury Konga, who has been helping to create the G4 Open Data Framework (you can see some of his presentations here) says cities all over Canada are jumping onto the open data train: you can see our collection of Canadian open data sites here. He adds:Canada is a hive of activity in Open Government and Open Data and I only see it increasing \u2026 We have also seen Open Data surface in the political realm where the Liberal Party of Canada recently put forward a new policy of Open Gov - Open Data and mayoral candidates in Toronto advocated increasing the Open Data program in Toronto \u2026 I am escstatic with the progress we've made BUT there is much more to do.Here are some apps built with Open Toronto data - is there anything you've built we should list? Post it in the comment field below.Two different approaches to Toronto's recent municipal elections, both using the city's live ward by ward election feed and results. ShareToronto has done the same in other Canadian city electionsTwitter live bulletins from the city's huge traffic boardsTakes Canadian data \u2013 including from Toronto \u2013 and maps it to give you a complete local picture of the cityTakes the city's realtime travel information to map exactly where each tram is. Will eventually include buses and metro trainsUses the city's cycle routes data to help plan bike journeysFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Search the world's government datasets\u2022 More environment data\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Free our data", "Government data", "Technology", "Americas", "Data journalism"], "title": "How Canada became an open data and data journalism powerhouse"},{"date": "2010-11-03T00:06:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is poised to rule on whether to approve a \u00a324bn hostile takeover of Potash Corporation by Anglo-Australian mining group BHP Billiton.The takeover is part of an international struggle to secure global commodity supplies against a backdrop of soaring demand and population growth in emerging economies.Potash Corporation, based in Saskatchewan, is one of Canada's largest companies and the world's biggest producer of potash, a key ingredient of food fertiliser. Demand for potash has leapt as countries such as China and India seek to boost crop yields to meet increased consumption, especially among a burgeoning middle class.But the hostile bid for Potash by BHP, headed by South African-born Marius Kloppers, has run into opposition from Saskatchewan, as well as other Canadian state governments, who argue it is foolhardy to hand a fifth of global potash supplies to a foreign firm.Now the ball is in the court of the federal government which must decide by midnight Canadian time today (4.00am GMT) whether BHP's move will be a net benefit to Canada and meet stringent foreign investment rules.Reports from Canada have indicated that Ottawa could sanction the deal, but only if BHP agrees to spend billions on Canadian infrastructure projects to compensate Canada for lost royalty and tax payments.Analysts say Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper is being pulled in different directions; protectionists argue it would be \"criminal\" to hand over one of the country's crown jewels to an overseas multinational, while champions of free trade fear that Canadian companies could face tit-for-tat measures when they seek to expand overseas if Harper blocks BHP.\"The devil will be in the detail,\" said one analyst, \"if the strings attached are too stretching for BHP, it could affect to what extent it sweetens its offer; or whether it offers anything extra at all,\" he adds.As potash prices have been heading north since BHP first tabled its hostile bid in August, brokers have argued BHP will have to raise its offer price to persuade 50% of Potash's shareholders to accept the deal.City sources suggest Kloppers could offer 10% above the current price of $130 a share to a level nearer $145, although analysts at UBS argue BHP may have to go as high as $165; BHP's major shareholders intimate that would be too high.BHP is determined not to overpay and can point to the fact that its bid is the only one on the table. China's Sinochem sought to enter the fray with backing from Canadian pension funds and Temasek of Singapore, but the Chinese were put off by a report from Saskatchewan that hinted a bid from a state-owned company would be unwelcome. The Canadians also said that as a consumer and a producer, it would be in Sinochem's interests to keep prices low, limiting the size of tax receipts.Kloppers is betting an increasingly hungry world will pay dearly for potash as BHP makes its first major move into the global food industry.With demand for grain rising and less farmland available per person, the need for fertiliser - especially potash - has never been greater. BHP's bid is not just an attempt to diversify: it is a major bet that rising food demand will cause a significant growth in the use of the fertiliser.According to Potash Corp's website, more people are eating meat, and as incomes rise in developing nations, millions of people are switching from starch to protein-based diets. Every pound of beef requires seven pounds of grain to produce, and this has a substantial impact on demand, according to experts.", "tags": ["BHP Billiton", "Canada", "Australia news", "Mining", "Business", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Canada ready to rule on Potash takeover by BHP Billiton"},{"date": "2010-10-05T19:45:23Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Geoffrey Canada, the man credited with turning around black under-achievement in Harlem and the star guest at conference, has told Michael Gove that the teaching unions are the biggest threat to the education secretary's reforms.Canada has been hailed as a pioneer in education by Barack Obama. In an interview with the Guardian, Canada said he had told Gove that in the UK the unions constituted an inflexible brake which was \"killing\" the innovation necessary to transform children's lives, and that they \"cover up\" for failing teachers.Canada said: \"Our charter schools were not unionised. My contract with my teachers is fair, and is two pages. The union contract is 200 pages. You cannot manage your business when you cannot make any decision without going back to 200 pages worth of stuff.\"So that is inflexible. It kills innovation; it stops anything from changing. The only thing that we can do is what we did last year, and last year was another failure. So that to me makes no sense.\"Canada's advice is a challenge to England's main teaching unions, which are opposed to coalition plans to expand academies and free schools, arguing they do not believe these schools raise standards, while costing more money to run and creating social segregation.Asked what advice he had given Gove, Canada said: \"I have been very clear that this union issue has to be at the forefront if you're going to bring about reform.\"It's uncomfortable and people get anxious about it. But I just think you have to have the conversation; and until we began to have that conversation in the States, there was no sense that you have any movement and momentum building towards reform.\"Until the unions come up with a real plan for improving schools that have failed \u2013 that doesn't do what they have done [in the past] \u2013 I think they don't have a really strong argument why they should be in this conversation in terms of what the future is going to be.\"Canada grew up in a poor part of the New York Bronx, but went on to study at a prestigious liberal arts college and then specialise in education at Harvard.He set up a not-for-profit organisation in Harlem where all the services a child and parent should get \u2013 from antenatal tips to skills training and after school services \u2013 are provided.Called the Harlem Children's Zone, it has grown to cover 97 blocks. Obama has called for 20 similar \"promise neighbourhoods\" to do the same, across the US. Canada is now the subject of a film, Waiting for Superman, made by the director of An Inconvenient Truth.The inability to sack bad teachers was a \"real problem\", and removing them from the profession should be made a priority, Canada said.\"Most teachers are decent, and some are really great. But there are also some who are lousy, and should not be in the profession. And the inability to get rid of these teachers, I think, is a real problem, and should be a priority, because it's pretty indefensible.\"Unions that cover up for people who we know should not be in the profession, that's a problem; when it is explicit that you may not get rid of these people.\"Addressing the conference ahead of Gove's speech, Canada said he had earned unpopularity for calling attention to America's educational decline.\"I've been making sure everybody knows we have lost our way. We offer our children a third world education system. We are not in the top ten, and in many cases we are not even in the top 20. The fact is, we have mishandled the education system.\"Where his project operates in New York, public schools have been failing for 53 years, he said.\"Fifty-three years?\" he put it to conference. \"All those generations. What has been the consequence of that failure? Has anyone changed anything? Even though it hasn't worked for 53 years?\"Education is the only billion dollar industry that tolerates abject failure. Any other business that failed so spectacularly for fifty years, it would be out of business.\"Explaining his methods to conference, Canada said he tracked children from birth to college.\"You stop those kids at birth and you stay with those kids. You teach them the soft skills or learning, to shake off a disappointment, learning to concentrate. And you take responsibility.\"When we started our school, in Harlem, I said to our mayor \u2026 and I said to my board of trustees, I said \u2013 if I don't have a better school in five years than all the other private schools, I'm going to fire myself. And then I got my staff in and said 'but you all know I'll be the last one leaving'.\"", "tags": ["Conservative conference 2010", "Education policy", "Trade unions", "Conservative conference", "Teaching", "UK news"], "title": "Geoffrey Canada warns Michael Gove teaching unions 'kill' innovation"},{"date": "2010-11-25T21:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After fruitless job-hunting in the UK, my husband has had two job offers from Canada. Neither is ideal. The first is in a prairie town where, to quote someone who knows, \"The winters are long and frigid, the summers are boiling and with bugs the size of your head.\" It is quite a large place but in the middle of nowhere. Coming back to see family in the UK would be horrible with two small children, but it is, apparently, the most friendly place in the world.The second is in Quebec. It looks more cosmopolitan and cool. It is much closer \u2013 a six-hour drive to family \u2013 and it is nearer to the UK. The problem is my French is awful (I am willing to work on that) but also, I have been told the people can be very insular and frosty. The thought of speaking in another language all day makes me feel exhausted even thinking about it. Not accepting one or other is not an option. What would you do?\u2022 If you would like to respond to this week's problem, please post your comment below.When leaving a message on this page, please be sensitive to the fact that you are responding to a real person in the grip of a real-life dilemma, who wrote to Private Lives asking for help, and may well view your comments here. Please consider especially how your words or the tone of your message could be perceived by someone in this situation, and be aware that comments which appear to be disruptive or disrespectful to the individual concerned will not appear.\u2022 If you would like fellow readers to respond to a dilemma of yours, send us an outline of the situation of around 150 words. For advice from Pamela Stephenson Connolly on sexual matters, send us a brief description of your concerns.\u2022 All correspondence should reach us by Wednesday morning. Email: private.lives@theguardian.com (please don't send attachments).", "tags": ["Life and style", "Canada holidays"], "title": "A remote prairie town in Canada or French-speaking Quebec \u2013 where do we live?"},{"date": "2010-11-21T00:06:53Z", "country": "canada", "content": "What do Birmingham airport, the Channel tunnel rail link and the engineering conglomerate Tomkins have in common? They've all been bought by Canadians. The folks north of America's 49th parallel have no qualms about snapping up British assets, but it's a rather more complicated situation when foreign bidders try to enter Canada.The London-listed mining empire BHP Billiton was last week obliged to withdraw a $40bn (\u00a324bn) takeover for the world's largest producer of fertiliser ingredients, the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan, after Stephen Harper's government declared that a foreign buyout of the vast minerals enterprise wouldn't be of \"net benefit\" to Canada. The aborted deal has left BHP with a $350m expenses bill.At a Toronto press conference notable for its lack of detail, Canada's industry minister, Tony Clement, explained, supremely vaguely, that he was not convinced a buyout by BHP Billiton would create a \"significant net improvement in the level and nature of economic activity\" in Canada. It would not, he insisted under questioning, be appropriate to get into \"exquisite details\".Potash is a potassium-based soil nutrient used in soil fertilisers around the world. The Potash Corporation employs more than 5,000 people, tapping into a vast resource of the stuff beneath the prairies. It's a lucrative business. And the subtext here is pure party politics. The prospect of a foreign buyout was hugely unpopular in the province of Saskatchewan, which accounts for 14 seats in the Canadian parliament, 13 of which are held by conservatives supporting the country's minority government. An election is likely within a year.It's unusual for such a big deal to be vetoed out and out. But it's a reminder that many nations do not share Britain's blanket \"open for business\" attitude towards takeovers by foreign bidders. Cadbury, BAA, P&O, Abbey, Corus, Scottish & Newcastle, Jaguar \u2013 the list of British names that have fallen to overseas takeovers goes on and on. There's been speculation that BP, wounded by its catastrophic oil spill, could be the next to face a predator.Former business secretary Peter Mandelson wanted tougher safeguards against foreign deals \u2013 perhaps raising the voting threshold for a successful deal from 50% to 66% of shareholders, and requiring executives to consider the interests of employees, suppliers and brands alongside the out-and-out lure of cash.In Canada, political pragmatism rules and for sure, ministers stand open to accusations of hypocrisy. Canada has no qualms in jumping up and down about protectionism elsewhere; the country spent months furiously lobbying when the Obama administration restricted expenditure of its $770bn economic stimulus package to public works carried out by US companies.Still, you have to admire Ottawa's chutzpah in this unblinking, unflinching self-interest. When the US bookseller Amazon wanted to open a distribution hub in Canada, the government threatened a veto unless the Seattle-based firm agreed to pump millions into various cultural activities and awards to support local literature. Amazon promptly ponied up funds and promised dedicated staff to get more Canadian content on to its website and its Kindles.Canada also made it blatantly clear last year that CanWest, the country's media empire, would not be allowed to fall into foreign hands when part of the business filed for bankruptcy protection. It's partly down to this attitude that although Canada has endured Conrad Black, it's not been penetrated by Rupert Murdoch. This is imperfect, unfair and, at times, cynical \u2013 but could our government learn a lesson or two from Canadian bolshiness?", "tags": ["Mergers and acquisitions", "BHP Billiton", "Tomkins", "Heathrow Airports Authority", "Peter Mandelson", "Cadbury", "Canada", "World news", "Airline industry", "Americas"], "title": "Canada snaps up British companies, but slams the door on foreign investors"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:06:41Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When you're constantly hopping between different cultures (I host a television travel show), it's easy to put your foot in it. Recently, I rudely laughed at a friend when he told me that a bar in Canada's Yukon Territory served the most disgusting drink in the world.You generally have to head east to savour the exotic fringes of world cuisine: live baby mice in China, boiled spiders in Cambodia, fertilised duck eggs in the Philippines. In Canada, you can buy beaver tails, but that's just the name for deep-fried sugared pastries. I had belittled my friend because the legendary Sour Toe Cocktail, as served in Yukon's Dawson City, could not possibly be real. After all, why would you drop a severed human toe into a beverage? Really, I just didn't think Canada had it in her.Dawson City boomed as a major centre of the short-lived Klondike Gold Rush. Between 1896 and 1898, the population swelled to 40,000, and it was the largest city north of San Francisco. By 1902, the gold had dried up, along with dreams of fame and fortune. Dawson City quickly turned into a small outpost with sinking wooden storefronts; the population fell to 1,300.In 1973, a local eccentric was thinking of a way to capitalise on the summer tourist traffic heading to the Top of the World Highway. Captain Dick, as he is known, found a severed toe in an old log cabin. Now, when the temperature plummets to -55C, men are known to do strange things, including, as Gold Rush poems suggest, set themselves on fire to avoid dying of cold.A veteran inhabitant of the territory who has braved an entire winter there is known as a Yukon Sourdough. (They have a winter festival in the capital, Whitehorse.) Captain Dick dropped the toe into a glass of champagne, and called it the Sour Toe Cocktail. He started a club, crowning himself the Toe Captain. To join it, all you had to do was take a drink and let the toe touch your lips. Word spread. The legend was born.Nearly four decades later, I walk into the Downtown Hotel, chilled to my bones. Captain Al, tonight's Toe Captain, is awaiting new customers at the bar. Behind the counter sits the eighth toe, preserved in a jar of salt. Over the years, toes have been stolen, lost and, in some cases, swallowed. The 8th toe is a sickeningly big digit, donated by an American who lost it in a lawnmower accident.I pay $5 for a tumbler of Yukon Gold whiskey (the cocktail is available with any drink now, even non-alcoholic ones), and $5 to join the club. There's no doubting the authenticity of the digit. It's yellowed and pickled by the salt, with a broken nail. My stomach lurches. Captain Al launches into a well-rehearsed ritual: \"Drink it fast, or drink it slow, but either way, your lips must touch this gnarly looking toe!\"I close my eyes, taste the whiskey, and indulge in this ceremony of cocktail cannibalism. Not too bad, perhaps a little too much toe-jam on the high notes.Captain Al tells me the club has over 60,000 members. Anyone of drinking age can join, and since the Downtown Hotel is not responsible for what you put in your drink after you've bought it, the health authorities are powerless to do much about it. Tourists now visit Dawson City specifically to go toe-to-toe with this challenging libation, much as Captain Dick anticipated.With my name logged in the book, I received a card confirming membership of the Sour Toe Cocktail Club \u2013 and then immediately emailed my friend to apologise for having dismissed his story.\u2022 sourtoecocktailclub.com. Double rooms at the Downtown Hotel, Dawson City (+1 867 993 5346, downtownhotel.ca) cost from \u00a372 a nightRobin Esrock (robinesrock.com) co-hosts Word Travels on the Travel Channel", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Robin Esrock in Canada"},{"date": "2010-12-14T20:33:58Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Wednesday, 09 July 2008, 18:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 03 OTTAWA 000918 C O R R E C T E D COPY//SUBJECT LINE////////////////////////////////// NOFORN SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 07/09/2018 TAGS PREL, PTER, MOPS, IR, PK, AF, CA SUBJECT: COUNSELOR, CSIS DIRECTOR DISCUSS CT THREATS, PAKISTAN, AFGHANISTAN, IRANREF: A. OTTAWA 360 B. OTTAWA 808 C. OTTAWA 850 D. OTTAWA 878OTTAWA 00000918 001.2 OF 003Classified By: PolMinCouns Scott Bellard, reasons, 1.4 (b) and (d).1. (S/NF) Summary. Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) Director Judd discussed domestic and foreign terror threats with Counselor of the State Department Cohen in Ottawa on July 2. Judd admitted that CSIS was increasingly distracted from its mission by legal challenges that could endanger foreign intelligence-sharing with Canadian agencies. He predicted that the upcoming release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr's interrogation by Canadian officials would lead to heightened pressure on the government to press for his return to Canada, which the government would continue to resist. Judd shared Dr. Cohen's negative assessment of current political, economic, and security trends in Pakistan, and was worried about what it would mean for the ISAF mission in Afghanistan. Canada has begun formulating an inter-agency Pakistan strategy, and CSIS had agreed to open a channel to Iran's intelligence service which Judd has not yet \"figured out.\" (Septel will cover Dr. Cohen's discussions regarding Pakistan and the OEF and ISAF missions in Afghanistan.) End summary.2. (S/NF) Counselor of the Department of State Eliot Cohen and CSIS Director Jim Judd in Ottawa on July 2 discussed threats posed by violent Islamist groups in Canada, and recent developments in Pakistan and Afghanistan. (CSIS is Canada's lead agency for national security intelligence.) Director Judd ascribed an \"Alice in Wonderland\" worldview to Canadians and their courts, whose judges have tied CSIS \"in knots,\" making it ever more difficult to detect and prevent terror attacks in Canada and abroad. The situation, he commented, left government security agencies on the defensive and losing public support for their effort to protect Canada and its allies.Legal Wrangling Risks Chill Effect----------------------------------3. (S/NF) XXXXXXXXXXXX4. (S/NF) Judd derided recent judgments in Canada's courts that threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- Qthat threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- and information-sharing with Canada. These judgments posit that Canadian authorities cannot use information that \"may have been\" derived from torture, and that any Canadian public official who conveys such information may be subject to criminal prosecution. This, he commented, put the government in a reverse-onus situation whereby it would have to \"prove\" the innocence of partner nations in the face of assumed wrongdoing.5. (S/NF) Judd credited Prime Minister Stephen Harper's minority Conservative government for \"taking it on the chin and pressing ahead\" with common sense measures despite court challenges and political knocks from the opposition and interest groups. When asked to look to the future, Judd predicted that Canada would soon implement UK-like legal procedures that make intelligence available to \"vetted defense lawyers who see everything the judge sees.\"OTTAWA 00000918 002.2 OF 003Terror Cases and Communities Present Mixed Pictures--------------------------------------------- ------6. (C/NF) Judd commented that cherry-picked sections of the court-ordered release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr (ref D) would likely show three (Canadian) adults interrogating a kid who breaks down in tears. He observed that the images would no doubt trigger \"knee-jerk anti-Americanism\" and \"paroxysms of moral outrage, a Canadian specialty,\" as well as lead to a new round of heightened pressure on the government to press for Khadr's return to Canada. He predicted that PM Harper's government would nonetheless continue to resist this pressure. 7. (C) The Director mentioned other major cases that also presented CSIS with major legal headaches due to the use of intelligence products in their development: Momin Khawaja has been on trial for his role in an Al Qaeda UK bomb plot since June 23 in the first major test of Canada's 2001 Anti-Terrorism Act, and Canada's ability to protect intelligence supplied by foreign government sources (ref D); the trial of the first of the home-grown Toronto 11 (down from 18) terror plotters, which is also now underway; and, the prosecution of XXXXXXXXXXXX.8. (C) Judd said he viewed Khawaja and his \"ilk\" as outliers, due in part to the fact that Canada's ethnic Pakistani community is unlike its ghettoized and poorly educated UK counterpart. It is largely made up of traders, lawyers, doctors, engineers, and others who see promise for themselves and their children in North America, he observed, so its members are unlikely to engage in domestic terror plots. He said that therefore CSIS main domestic focus is instead on fundraising and procurement, as well as the recruitment of a small number of Canadian \"wannabes\" of Pakistani origin for mostly overseas operations.Pakistan and Afghanistan------------------------9. (C) Turning to Pakistan, Counselor Cohen briefed his recent trip to Islamabad and Peshawar, noting his alarm at the degrading economic, political, and security situation there, and its implications for Pakistan, Afghan, and regional stability. Judd responded that Dr. Cohen's sober assessment tracked with CSIS' own view of Pakistan, and that \"it is hard to see a good outcome there\" due to that country's political, economic, and security failures, on top of fast-rising oil and food prices. Canada does not have an explicit strategy for Pakistan, Judd said, but Privy Council Deputy Secretary David Mulroney (who leads the interagency on Afghanistan) now has the lead on developing one (septel). Dr. Cohen remarked, and Judd agreed, that it would be necessary to avoid approaching Pakistan as simply an adjunct to the ISAF and OEF missions in Afghanistan.10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Q10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Afghanistan, Judd asserted, due in part to Karzai's weak leadership, widespread corruption, the lack of will to press ahead on counter-narcotics, limited Afghan security force capability (particularly the police) and, most recently, the Sarpoza prison break. He commented that CSIS had seen Sarpoza coming, and its link to the Quetta Shura in Pakistan, but could not get a handle on the timing.Iranian Outreach----------------11. (S/NF) Judd added that he and his colleagues are \"very, very worried\" about Iran. CSIS recently talked to Iran's Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS) after that agency requested its own channel of communication to Canada, he said. The Iranians agreed to \"help\" on Afghan issues, including sharing information regarding potential attacks. However, \"we have not figured out what they are up to,\" Judd confided, since it is clear that the \"Iranians want ISAF to bleed...slowly.\"OTTAWA 00000918 003.2 OF 00312. (U) Dr. Cohen has cleared this message.Visit Canada,s Economy and Environment Forum at http://www.intelink.gov/communities/state/can adaWILKINS", "tags": ["Canada", "Pakistan", "Iran", "Afghanistan", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US foreign policy", "The US embassy cables", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US embassy cables: Terror suspects, Canada and the law"},{"date": "2010-11-09T12:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine if you took the historic records of everyone who died in the first world war. Then you matched them to one area to see how it had been affected. Or if you wanted to see if one part of your city had an epidemic of bedbugs. Or if you wanted to find out where the most guns are.This is the work of data journalist Patrick Cain, quietly and methodically producing strikingly interesting maps of his home city of Toronto. It's the pinnacle of what data journalism is supposed to be about. And, if you're looking for innovative data journalism, vast open data resources and the latest open data apps, Canada is a good place to start.Enthralled by open data initiatives around the world, Canadians from Ottawa to Vancouver are embracing spreadsheets as never before \u2013 and producing great work which you don't often hear about outside the country.Patrick Cain works by doggedly pursuing datasets, often from official sources which don't want to know \u2013 but bolstered by a powerful freedom of information system:If something is uncontroversial (like dog licences by postal code) there are often no issues about releasing it. On the other side, we have the sex offender database, which I've been trying to get access to since the spring in 2008. Sometimes there is ineffective resistance, like the landlord and tenant appeal board that tried to get me to sign a non-disclosure agreement. Mostly I get things in the mail as the law demands \u2026 Everybody (including me) likes the rage-against-the-machine stories, but in the majority of cases the system works more or less as intended.Cain is one of the most established of the new breed. Names mentioned by those in the know include Chad Skelton on the Vancouver Sun, Rob Cribb at the Toronto Star; David McKie at CBC and Glen McGregor at the Ottawa Citizen.Toronto's open data intitiative is run by a small team of enthusiasts in the city authority's web department. Led by Trish Garner, the unit updates the site every day with raw datasets from local election results to detailed boundary mapping. And all in addition to their day job of keeping the city's tech running. She's inspired by the worldwide open data movement. I think there's a large community of developers in Toronto and across Canada which is inspired by what's going on in the UK and in the US under the Obama administration and want to see change here at home. A good majority have registered with us and are quite avidly following what we're doing.Politically, she says support is growing:There has been solid support from the very top - our Mayor - and from the City Clerk and the CIO. Indications are that the mayor-elect [Rob Ford was elected earlier this month] will also be a champion. This is key for us. I have to say, too, that it wouldn't be possible to carry on without the constructive feedback and support we've received from the developer community and the dedication and enthusiasm of a bright, highly motivated, energetic team. They love what they do and they have fun.The Canadian government is consulting on an open data policy and recently, Canada's biggest open data sites \u2013 Toronto, Vancouver, Ottawa and Edmonton \u2013 have started getting together to set a series of open data standards. Jury Konga, who has been helping to create the G4 Open Data Framework (you can see some of his presentations here) says cities all over Canada are jumping onto the open data train: you can see our collection of Canadian open data sites here. He adds:Canada is a hive of activity in Open Government and Open Data and I only see it increasing \u2026 We have also seen Open Data surface in the political realm where the Liberal Party of Canada recently put forward a new policy of Open Gov - Open Data and mayoral candidates in Toronto advocated increasing the Open Data program in Toronto \u2026 I am escstatic with the progress we've made BUT there is much more to do.Here are some apps built with Open Toronto data - is there anything you've built we should list? Post it in the comment field below.Two different approaches to Toronto's recent municipal elections, both using the city's live ward by ward election feed and results. ShareToronto has done the same in other Canadian city electionsTwitter live bulletins from the city's huge traffic boardsTakes Canadian data \u2013 including from Toronto \u2013 and maps it to give you a complete local picture of the cityTakes the city's realtime travel information to map exactly where each tram is. Will eventually include buses and metro trainsUses the city's cycle routes data to help plan bike journeysFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Search the world's government datasets\u2022 More environment data\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Free our data", "Government data", "Technology", "Americas", "Data journalism"], "title": "How Canada became an open data and data journalism powerhouse"},{"date": "2010-11-03T00:06:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is poised to rule on whether to approve a \u00a324bn hostile takeover of Potash Corporation by Anglo-Australian mining group BHP Billiton.The takeover is part of an international struggle to secure global commodity supplies against a backdrop of soaring demand and population growth in emerging economies.Potash Corporation, based in Saskatchewan, is one of Canada's largest companies and the world's biggest producer of potash, a key ingredient of food fertiliser. Demand for potash has leapt as countries such as China and India seek to boost crop yields to meet increased consumption, especially among a burgeoning middle class.But the hostile bid for Potash by BHP, headed by South African-born Marius Kloppers, has run into opposition from Saskatchewan, as well as other Canadian state governments, who argue it is foolhardy to hand a fifth of global potash supplies to a foreign firm.Now the ball is in the court of the federal government which must decide by midnight Canadian time today (4.00am GMT) whether BHP's move will be a net benefit to Canada and meet stringent foreign investment rules.Reports from Canada have indicated that Ottawa could sanction the deal, but only if BHP agrees to spend billions on Canadian infrastructure projects to compensate Canada for lost royalty and tax payments.Analysts say Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper is being pulled in different directions; protectionists argue it would be \"criminal\" to hand over one of the country's crown jewels to an overseas multinational, while champions of free trade fear that Canadian companies could face tit-for-tat measures when they seek to expand overseas if Harper blocks BHP.\"The devil will be in the detail,\" said one analyst, \"if the strings attached are too stretching for BHP, it could affect to what extent it sweetens its offer; or whether it offers anything extra at all,\" he adds.As potash prices have been heading north since BHP first tabled its hostile bid in August, brokers have argued BHP will have to raise its offer price to persuade 50% of Potash's shareholders to accept the deal.City sources suggest Kloppers could offer 10% above the current price of $130 a share to a level nearer $145, although analysts at UBS argue BHP may have to go as high as $165; BHP's major shareholders intimate that would be too high.BHP is determined not to overpay and can point to the fact that its bid is the only one on the table. China's Sinochem sought to enter the fray with backing from Canadian pension funds and Temasek of Singapore, but the Chinese were put off by a report from Saskatchewan that hinted a bid from a state-owned company would be unwelcome. The Canadians also said that as a consumer and a producer, it would be in Sinochem's interests to keep prices low, limiting the size of tax receipts.Kloppers is betting an increasingly hungry world will pay dearly for potash as BHP makes its first major move into the global food industry.With demand for grain rising and less farmland available per person, the need for fertiliser - especially potash - has never been greater. BHP's bid is not just an attempt to diversify: it is a major bet that rising food demand will cause a significant growth in the use of the fertiliser.According to Potash Corp's website, more people are eating meat, and as incomes rise in developing nations, millions of people are switching from starch to protein-based diets. Every pound of beef requires seven pounds of grain to produce, and this has a substantial impact on demand, according to experts.", "tags": ["BHP Billiton", "Canada", "Australia news", "Mining", "Business", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Canada ready to rule on Potash takeover by BHP Billiton"},{"date": "2010-10-05T19:45:23Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Geoffrey Canada, the man credited with turning around black under-achievement in Harlem and the star guest at conference, has told Michael Gove that the teaching unions are the biggest threat to the education secretary's reforms.Canada has been hailed as a pioneer in education by Barack Obama. In an interview with the Guardian, Canada said he had told Gove that in the UK the unions constituted an inflexible brake which was \"killing\" the innovation necessary to transform children's lives, and that they \"cover up\" for failing teachers.Canada said: \"Our charter schools were not unionised. My contract with my teachers is fair, and is two pages. The union contract is 200 pages. You cannot manage your business when you cannot make any decision without going back to 200 pages worth of stuff.\"So that is inflexible. It kills innovation; it stops anything from changing. The only thing that we can do is what we did last year, and last year was another failure. So that to me makes no sense.\"Canada's advice is a challenge to England's main teaching unions, which are opposed to coalition plans to expand academies and free schools, arguing they do not believe these schools raise standards, while costing more money to run and creating social segregation.Asked what advice he had given Gove, Canada said: \"I have been very clear that this union issue has to be at the forefront if you're going to bring about reform.\"It's uncomfortable and people get anxious about it. But I just think you have to have the conversation; and until we began to have that conversation in the States, there was no sense that you have any movement and momentum building towards reform.\"Until the unions come up with a real plan for improving schools that have failed \u2013 that doesn't do what they have done [in the past] \u2013 I think they don't have a really strong argument why they should be in this conversation in terms of what the future is going to be.\"Canada grew up in a poor part of the New York Bronx, but went on to study at a prestigious liberal arts college and then specialise in education at Harvard.He set up a not-for-profit organisation in Harlem where all the services a child and parent should get \u2013 from antenatal tips to skills training and after school services \u2013 are provided.Called the Harlem Children's Zone, it has grown to cover 97 blocks. Obama has called for 20 similar \"promise neighbourhoods\" to do the same, across the US. Canada is now the subject of a film, Waiting for Superman, made by the director of An Inconvenient Truth.The inability to sack bad teachers was a \"real problem\", and removing them from the profession should be made a priority, Canada said.\"Most teachers are decent, and some are really great. But there are also some who are lousy, and should not be in the profession. And the inability to get rid of these teachers, I think, is a real problem, and should be a priority, because it's pretty indefensible.\"Unions that cover up for people who we know should not be in the profession, that's a problem; when it is explicit that you may not get rid of these people.\"Addressing the conference ahead of Gove's speech, Canada said he had earned unpopularity for calling attention to America's educational decline.\"I've been making sure everybody knows we have lost our way. We offer our children a third world education system. We are not in the top ten, and in many cases we are not even in the top 20. The fact is, we have mishandled the education system.\"Where his project operates in New York, public schools have been failing for 53 years, he said.\"Fifty-three years?\" he put it to conference. \"All those generations. What has been the consequence of that failure? Has anyone changed anything? Even though it hasn't worked for 53 years?\"Education is the only billion dollar industry that tolerates abject failure. Any other business that failed so spectacularly for fifty years, it would be out of business.\"Explaining his methods to conference, Canada said he tracked children from birth to college.\"You stop those kids at birth and you stay with those kids. You teach them the soft skills or learning, to shake off a disappointment, learning to concentrate. And you take responsibility.\"When we started our school, in Harlem, I said to our mayor \u2026 and I said to my board of trustees, I said \u2013 if I don't have a better school in five years than all the other private schools, I'm going to fire myself. And then I got my staff in and said 'but you all know I'll be the last one leaving'.\"", "tags": ["Conservative conference 2010", "Education policy", "Trade unions", "Conservative conference", "Teaching", "UK news"], "title": "Geoffrey Canada warns Michael Gove teaching unions 'kill' innovation"},{"date": "2010-11-25T21:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After fruitless job-hunting in the UK, my husband has had two job offers from Canada. Neither is ideal. The first is in a prairie town where, to quote someone who knows, \"The winters are long and frigid, the summers are boiling and with bugs the size of your head.\" It is quite a large place but in the middle of nowhere. Coming back to see family in the UK would be horrible with two small children, but it is, apparently, the most friendly place in the world.The second is in Quebec. It looks more cosmopolitan and cool. It is much closer \u2013 a six-hour drive to family \u2013 and it is nearer to the UK. The problem is my French is awful (I am willing to work on that) but also, I have been told the people can be very insular and frosty. The thought of speaking in another language all day makes me feel exhausted even thinking about it. Not accepting one or other is not an option. What would you do?\u2022 If you would like to respond to this week's problem, please post your comment below.When leaving a message on this page, please be sensitive to the fact that you are responding to a real person in the grip of a real-life dilemma, who wrote to Private Lives asking for help, and may well view your comments here. Please consider especially how your words or the tone of your message could be perceived by someone in this situation, and be aware that comments which appear to be disruptive or disrespectful to the individual concerned will not appear.\u2022 If you would like fellow readers to respond to a dilemma of yours, send us an outline of the situation of around 150 words. For advice from Pamela Stephenson Connolly on sexual matters, send us a brief description of your concerns.\u2022 All correspondence should reach us by Wednesday morning. Email: private.lives@theguardian.com (please don't send attachments).", "tags": ["Life and style", "Canada holidays"], "title": "A remote prairie town in Canada or French-speaking Quebec \u2013 where do we live?"},{"date": "2010-11-21T00:06:53Z", "country": "canada", "content": "What do Birmingham airport, the Channel tunnel rail link and the engineering conglomerate Tomkins have in common? They've all been bought by Canadians. The folks north of America's 49th parallel have no qualms about snapping up British assets, but it's a rather more complicated situation when foreign bidders try to enter Canada.The London-listed mining empire BHP Billiton was last week obliged to withdraw a $40bn (\u00a324bn) takeover for the world's largest producer of fertiliser ingredients, the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan, after Stephen Harper's government declared that a foreign buyout of the vast minerals enterprise wouldn't be of \"net benefit\" to Canada. The aborted deal has left BHP with a $350m expenses bill.At a Toronto press conference notable for its lack of detail, Canada's industry minister, Tony Clement, explained, supremely vaguely, that he was not convinced a buyout by BHP Billiton would create a \"significant net improvement in the level and nature of economic activity\" in Canada. It would not, he insisted under questioning, be appropriate to get into \"exquisite details\".Potash is a potassium-based soil nutrient used in soil fertilisers around the world. The Potash Corporation employs more than 5,000 people, tapping into a vast resource of the stuff beneath the prairies. It's a lucrative business. And the subtext here is pure party politics. The prospect of a foreign buyout was hugely unpopular in the province of Saskatchewan, which accounts for 14 seats in the Canadian parliament, 13 of which are held by conservatives supporting the country's minority government. An election is likely within a year.It's unusual for such a big deal to be vetoed out and out. But it's a reminder that many nations do not share Britain's blanket \"open for business\" attitude towards takeovers by foreign bidders. Cadbury, BAA, P&O, Abbey, Corus, Scottish & Newcastle, Jaguar \u2013 the list of British names that have fallen to overseas takeovers goes on and on. There's been speculation that BP, wounded by its catastrophic oil spill, could be the next to face a predator.Former business secretary Peter Mandelson wanted tougher safeguards against foreign deals \u2013 perhaps raising the voting threshold for a successful deal from 50% to 66% of shareholders, and requiring executives to consider the interests of employees, suppliers and brands alongside the out-and-out lure of cash.In Canada, political pragmatism rules and for sure, ministers stand open to accusations of hypocrisy. Canada has no qualms in jumping up and down about protectionism elsewhere; the country spent months furiously lobbying when the Obama administration restricted expenditure of its $770bn economic stimulus package to public works carried out by US companies.Still, you have to admire Ottawa's chutzpah in this unblinking, unflinching self-interest. When the US bookseller Amazon wanted to open a distribution hub in Canada, the government threatened a veto unless the Seattle-based firm agreed to pump millions into various cultural activities and awards to support local literature. Amazon promptly ponied up funds and promised dedicated staff to get more Canadian content on to its website and its Kindles.Canada also made it blatantly clear last year that CanWest, the country's media empire, would not be allowed to fall into foreign hands when part of the business filed for bankruptcy protection. It's partly down to this attitude that although Canada has endured Conrad Black, it's not been penetrated by Rupert Murdoch. This is imperfect, unfair and, at times, cynical \u2013 but could our government learn a lesson or two from Canadian bolshiness?", "tags": ["Mergers and acquisitions", "BHP Billiton", "Tomkins", "Heathrow Airports Authority", "Peter Mandelson", "Cadbury", "Canada", "World news", "Airline industry", "Americas"], "title": "Canada snaps up British companies, but slams the door on foreign investors"},{"date": "2010-10-18T16:54:40Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Two founders of BlueBay Asset Management are each to receive a \u00a382m windfall after agreeing to sell the London-listed company to Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) in a deal valuing the business at close to \u00a31bn.Hugh Willis, chief executive, and the chief investment officer, Mark Poole, who together previously headed JP Morgan's European credit arbitrage operations, founded BlueBay in 2001, floating the business four years ago.As well as further enriching the founders, the agreed sale will also provide a colossal payday for the group's 220 staff, who own more than 40% of shares.The European arm of the failed investment bank Lehman Brothers, now in administration, is also a big investor, with a holding of close to 5%.BlueBay, which has $40bn (\u00a325bn) of assets under management, has evolved from a hedge fund into a more conservative asset management operation.RBC's offer price of 485p a share represents a 29% premium to BlueBay's closing price of 375.70p on Friday.Shareholders will also receive a final dividend of 7.5p.Stuart Duncan, an analyst at KBC Peel Hunt, said: \"BlueBay is a highly attractive asset, which is trading well and delivering as expected. In our view, the offer price looks attractive but this must be put in context of 43% earnings growth forecast in 2011, followed by 26% in 2012.\"Willis and Poole have pledged to reinvest a quarter of their respective holdings under the terms of the deal and will continue to lead BlueBay, which will retain investment autonomy from RBC.Their windfall comes just months after the two founders each raised \u00a321m by selling 6.5m shares in a placing.RBC, which has recently expanded its operations in Europe, said the purchase will \"further strategy to leverage our position as a top 10 global wealth manager\".BlueBay has changed considerably since its flotation in 2006. In the past, profits were mostly driven by its hedge funds, including the special situations unit, which was co-led by its US fund manager, Gina Germano, who is now no longer with the firm.Germano's lucrative investments included Drax, Britain's largest power station, whose debt was purchased at a deep discount by BlueBay and other distressed funds after US owners AES walked away. A rally in electricity prices followed, later yielding a hefty profit to creditors, such as BlueBay, who had swapped their debt for equity.", "tags": ["Bluebay Asset Management", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Hedge funds", "Financial sector", "Business"], "title": "BlueBay founders expect \u00a382m windfall from Royal Bank of Canada sale"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:06:41Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When you're constantly hopping between different cultures (I host a television travel show), it's easy to put your foot in it. Recently, I rudely laughed at a friend when he told me that a bar in Canada's Yukon Territory served the most disgusting drink in the world.You generally have to head east to savour the exotic fringes of world cuisine: live baby mice in China, boiled spiders in Cambodia, fertilised duck eggs in the Philippines. In Canada, you can buy beaver tails, but that's just the name for deep-fried sugared pastries. I had belittled my friend because the legendary Sour Toe Cocktail, as served in Yukon's Dawson City, could not possibly be real. After all, why would you drop a severed human toe into a beverage? Really, I just didn't think Canada had it in her.Dawson City boomed as a major centre of the short-lived Klondike Gold Rush. Between 1896 and 1898, the population swelled to 40,000, and it was the largest city north of San Francisco. By 1902, the gold had dried up, along with dreams of fame and fortune. Dawson City quickly turned into a small outpost with sinking wooden storefronts; the population fell to 1,300.In 1973, a local eccentric was thinking of a way to capitalise on the summer tourist traffic heading to the Top of the World Highway. Captain Dick, as he is known, found a severed toe in an old log cabin. Now, when the temperature plummets to -55C, men are known to do strange things, including, as Gold Rush poems suggest, set themselves on fire to avoid dying of cold.A veteran inhabitant of the territory who has braved an entire winter there is known as a Yukon Sourdough. (They have a winter festival in the capital, Whitehorse.) Captain Dick dropped the toe into a glass of champagne, and called it the Sour Toe Cocktail. He started a club, crowning himself the Toe Captain. To join it, all you had to do was take a drink and let the toe touch your lips. Word spread. The legend was born.Nearly four decades later, I walk into the Downtown Hotel, chilled to my bones. Captain Al, tonight's Toe Captain, is awaiting new customers at the bar. Behind the counter sits the eighth toe, preserved in a jar of salt. Over the years, toes have been stolen, lost and, in some cases, swallowed. The 8th toe is a sickeningly big digit, donated by an American who lost it in a lawnmower accident.I pay $5 for a tumbler of Yukon Gold whiskey (the cocktail is available with any drink now, even non-alcoholic ones), and $5 to join the club. There's no doubting the authenticity of the digit. It's yellowed and pickled by the salt, with a broken nail. My stomach lurches. Captain Al launches into a well-rehearsed ritual: \"Drink it fast, or drink it slow, but either way, your lips must touch this gnarly looking toe!\"I close my eyes, taste the whiskey, and indulge in this ceremony of cocktail cannibalism. Not too bad, perhaps a little too much toe-jam on the high notes.Captain Al tells me the club has over 60,000 members. Anyone of drinking age can join, and since the Downtown Hotel is not responsible for what you put in your drink after you've bought it, the health authorities are powerless to do much about it. Tourists now visit Dawson City specifically to go toe-to-toe with this challenging libation, much as Captain Dick anticipated.With my name logged in the book, I received a card confirming membership of the Sour Toe Cocktail Club \u2013 and then immediately emailed my friend to apologise for having dismissed his story.\u2022 sourtoecocktailclub.com. Double rooms at the Downtown Hotel, Dawson City (+1 867 993 5346, downtownhotel.ca) cost from \u00a372 a nightRobin Esrock (robinesrock.com) co-hosts Word Travels on the Travel Channel", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Robin Esrock in Canada"},{"date": "2010-12-14T20:33:58Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Wednesday, 09 July 2008, 18:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 03 OTTAWA 000918 C O R R E C T E D COPY//SUBJECT LINE////////////////////////////////// NOFORN SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 07/09/2018 TAGS PREL, PTER, MOPS, IR, PK, AF, CA SUBJECT: COUNSELOR, CSIS DIRECTOR DISCUSS CT THREATS, PAKISTAN, AFGHANISTAN, IRANREF: A. OTTAWA 360 B. OTTAWA 808 C. OTTAWA 850 D. OTTAWA 878OTTAWA 00000918 001.2 OF 003Classified By: PolMinCouns Scott Bellard, reasons, 1.4 (b) and (d).1. (S/NF) Summary. Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) Director Judd discussed domestic and foreign terror threats with Counselor of the State Department Cohen in Ottawa on July 2. Judd admitted that CSIS was increasingly distracted from its mission by legal challenges that could endanger foreign intelligence-sharing with Canadian agencies. He predicted that the upcoming release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr's interrogation by Canadian officials would lead to heightened pressure on the government to press for his return to Canada, which the government would continue to resist. Judd shared Dr. Cohen's negative assessment of current political, economic, and security trends in Pakistan, and was worried about what it would mean for the ISAF mission in Afghanistan. Canada has begun formulating an inter-agency Pakistan strategy, and CSIS had agreed to open a channel to Iran's intelligence service which Judd has not yet \"figured out.\" (Septel will cover Dr. Cohen's discussions regarding Pakistan and the OEF and ISAF missions in Afghanistan.) End summary.2. (S/NF) Counselor of the Department of State Eliot Cohen and CSIS Director Jim Judd in Ottawa on July 2 discussed threats posed by violent Islamist groups in Canada, and recent developments in Pakistan and Afghanistan. (CSIS is Canada's lead agency for national security intelligence.) Director Judd ascribed an \"Alice in Wonderland\" worldview to Canadians and their courts, whose judges have tied CSIS \"in knots,\" making it ever more difficult to detect and prevent terror attacks in Canada and abroad. The situation, he commented, left government security agencies on the defensive and losing public support for their effort to protect Canada and its allies.Legal Wrangling Risks Chill Effect----------------------------------3. (S/NF) XXXXXXXXXXXX4. (S/NF) Judd derided recent judgments in Canada's courts that threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- Qthat threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- and information-sharing with Canada. These judgments posit that Canadian authorities cannot use information that \"may have been\" derived from torture, and that any Canadian public official who conveys such information may be subject to criminal prosecution. This, he commented, put the government in a reverse-onus situation whereby it would have to \"prove\" the innocence of partner nations in the face of assumed wrongdoing.5. (S/NF) Judd credited Prime Minister Stephen Harper's minority Conservative government for \"taking it on the chin and pressing ahead\" with common sense measures despite court challenges and political knocks from the opposition and interest groups. When asked to look to the future, Judd predicted that Canada would soon implement UK-like legal procedures that make intelligence available to \"vetted defense lawyers who see everything the judge sees.\"OTTAWA 00000918 002.2 OF 003Terror Cases and Communities Present Mixed Pictures--------------------------------------------- ------6. (C/NF) Judd commented that cherry-picked sections of the court-ordered release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr (ref D) would likely show three (Canadian) adults interrogating a kid who breaks down in tears. He observed that the images would no doubt trigger \"knee-jerk anti-Americanism\" and \"paroxysms of moral outrage, a Canadian specialty,\" as well as lead to a new round of heightened pressure on the government to press for Khadr's return to Canada. He predicted that PM Harper's government would nonetheless continue to resist this pressure. 7. (C) The Director mentioned other major cases that also presented CSIS with major legal headaches due to the use of intelligence products in their development: Momin Khawaja has been on trial for his role in an Al Qaeda UK bomb plot since June 23 in the first major test of Canada's 2001 Anti-Terrorism Act, and Canada's ability to protect intelligence supplied by foreign government sources (ref D); the trial of the first of the home-grown Toronto 11 (down from 18) terror plotters, which is also now underway; and, the prosecution of XXXXXXXXXXXX.8. (C) Judd said he viewed Khawaja and his \"ilk\" as outliers, due in part to the fact that Canada's ethnic Pakistani community is unlike its ghettoized and poorly educated UK counterpart. It is largely made up of traders, lawyers, doctors, engineers, and others who see promise for themselves and their children in North America, he observed, so its members are unlikely to engage in domestic terror plots. He said that therefore CSIS main domestic focus is instead on fundraising and procurement, as well as the recruitment of a small number of Canadian \"wannabes\" of Pakistani origin for mostly overseas operations.Pakistan and Afghanistan------------------------9. (C) Turning to Pakistan, Counselor Cohen briefed his recent trip to Islamabad and Peshawar, noting his alarm at the degrading economic, political, and security situation there, and its implications for Pakistan, Afghan, and regional stability. Judd responded that Dr. Cohen's sober assessment tracked with CSIS' own view of Pakistan, and that \"it is hard to see a good outcome there\" due to that country's political, economic, and security failures, on top of fast-rising oil and food prices. Canada does not have an explicit strategy for Pakistan, Judd said, but Privy Council Deputy Secretary David Mulroney (who leads the interagency on Afghanistan) now has the lead on developing one (septel). Dr. Cohen remarked, and Judd agreed, that it would be necessary to avoid approaching Pakistan as simply an adjunct to the ISAF and OEF missions in Afghanistan.10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Q10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Afghanistan, Judd asserted, due in part to Karzai's weak leadership, widespread corruption, the lack of will to press ahead on counter-narcotics, limited Afghan security force capability (particularly the police) and, most recently, the Sarpoza prison break. He commented that CSIS had seen Sarpoza coming, and its link to the Quetta Shura in Pakistan, but could not get a handle on the timing.Iranian Outreach----------------11. (S/NF) Judd added that he and his colleagues are \"very, very worried\" about Iran. CSIS recently talked to Iran's Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS) after that agency requested its own channel of communication to Canada, he said. The Iranians agreed to \"help\" on Afghan issues, including sharing information regarding potential attacks. However, \"we have not figured out what they are up to,\" Judd confided, since it is clear that the \"Iranians want ISAF to bleed...slowly.\"OTTAWA 00000918 003.2 OF 00312. (U) Dr. Cohen has cleared this message.Visit Canada,s Economy and Environment Forum at http://www.intelink.gov/communities/state/can adaWILKINS", "tags": ["Canada", "Pakistan", "Iran", "Afghanistan", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US foreign policy", "The US embassy cables", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US embassy cables: Terror suspects, Canada and the law"},{"date": "2010-11-09T12:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine if you took the historic records of everyone who died in the first world war. Then you matched them to one area to see how it had been affected. Or if you wanted to see if one part of your city had an epidemic of bedbugs. Or if you wanted to find out where the most guns are.This is the work of data journalist Patrick Cain, quietly and methodically producing strikingly interesting maps of his home city of Toronto. It's the pinnacle of what data journalism is supposed to be about. And, if you're looking for innovative data journalism, vast open data resources and the latest open data apps, Canada is a good place to start.Enthralled by open data initiatives around the world, Canadians from Ottawa to Vancouver are embracing spreadsheets as never before \u2013 and producing great work which you don't often hear about outside the country.Patrick Cain works by doggedly pursuing datasets, often from official sources which don't want to know \u2013 but bolstered by a powerful freedom of information system:If something is uncontroversial (like dog licences by postal code) there are often no issues about releasing it. On the other side, we have the sex offender database, which I've been trying to get access to since the spring in 2008. Sometimes there is ineffective resistance, like the landlord and tenant appeal board that tried to get me to sign a non-disclosure agreement. Mostly I get things in the mail as the law demands \u2026 Everybody (including me) likes the rage-against-the-machine stories, but in the majority of cases the system works more or less as intended.Cain is one of the most established of the new breed. Names mentioned by those in the know include Chad Skelton on the Vancouver Sun, Rob Cribb at the Toronto Star; David McKie at CBC and Glen McGregor at the Ottawa Citizen.Toronto's open data intitiative is run by a small team of enthusiasts in the city authority's web department. Led by Trish Garner, the unit updates the site every day with raw datasets from local election results to detailed boundary mapping. And all in addition to their day job of keeping the city's tech running. She's inspired by the worldwide open data movement. I think there's a large community of developers in Toronto and across Canada which is inspired by what's going on in the UK and in the US under the Obama administration and want to see change here at home. A good majority have registered with us and are quite avidly following what we're doing.Politically, she says support is growing:There has been solid support from the very top - our Mayor - and from the City Clerk and the CIO. Indications are that the mayor-elect [Rob Ford was elected earlier this month] will also be a champion. This is key for us. I have to say, too, that it wouldn't be possible to carry on without the constructive feedback and support we've received from the developer community and the dedication and enthusiasm of a bright, highly motivated, energetic team. They love what they do and they have fun.The Canadian government is consulting on an open data policy and recently, Canada's biggest open data sites \u2013 Toronto, Vancouver, Ottawa and Edmonton \u2013 have started getting together to set a series of open data standards. Jury Konga, who has been helping to create the G4 Open Data Framework (you can see some of his presentations here) says cities all over Canada are jumping onto the open data train: you can see our collection of Canadian open data sites here. He adds:Canada is a hive of activity in Open Government and Open Data and I only see it increasing \u2026 We have also seen Open Data surface in the political realm where the Liberal Party of Canada recently put forward a new policy of Open Gov - Open Data and mayoral candidates in Toronto advocated increasing the Open Data program in Toronto \u2026 I am escstatic with the progress we've made BUT there is much more to do.Here are some apps built with Open Toronto data - is there anything you've built we should list? Post it in the comment field below.Two different approaches to Toronto's recent municipal elections, both using the city's live ward by ward election feed and results. ShareToronto has done the same in other Canadian city electionsTwitter live bulletins from the city's huge traffic boardsTakes Canadian data \u2013 including from Toronto \u2013 and maps it to give you a complete local picture of the cityTakes the city's realtime travel information to map exactly where each tram is. Will eventually include buses and metro trainsUses the city's cycle routes data to help plan bike journeysFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Search the world's government datasets\u2022 More environment data\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Free our data", "Government data", "Technology", "Americas", "Data journalism"], "title": "How Canada became an open data and data journalism powerhouse"},{"date": "2010-11-03T00:06:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is poised to rule on whether to approve a \u00a324bn hostile takeover of Potash Corporation by Anglo-Australian mining group BHP Billiton.The takeover is part of an international struggle to secure global commodity supplies against a backdrop of soaring demand and population growth in emerging economies.Potash Corporation, based in Saskatchewan, is one of Canada's largest companies and the world's biggest producer of potash, a key ingredient of food fertiliser. Demand for potash has leapt as countries such as China and India seek to boost crop yields to meet increased consumption, especially among a burgeoning middle class.But the hostile bid for Potash by BHP, headed by South African-born Marius Kloppers, has run into opposition from Saskatchewan, as well as other Canadian state governments, who argue it is foolhardy to hand a fifth of global potash supplies to a foreign firm.Now the ball is in the court of the federal government which must decide by midnight Canadian time today (4.00am GMT) whether BHP's move will be a net benefit to Canada and meet stringent foreign investment rules.Reports from Canada have indicated that Ottawa could sanction the deal, but only if BHP agrees to spend billions on Canadian infrastructure projects to compensate Canada for lost royalty and tax payments.Analysts say Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper is being pulled in different directions; protectionists argue it would be \"criminal\" to hand over one of the country's crown jewels to an overseas multinational, while champions of free trade fear that Canadian companies could face tit-for-tat measures when they seek to expand overseas if Harper blocks BHP.\"The devil will be in the detail,\" said one analyst, \"if the strings attached are too stretching for BHP, it could affect to what extent it sweetens its offer; or whether it offers anything extra at all,\" he adds.As potash prices have been heading north since BHP first tabled its hostile bid in August, brokers have argued BHP will have to raise its offer price to persuade 50% of Potash's shareholders to accept the deal.City sources suggest Kloppers could offer 10% above the current price of $130 a share to a level nearer $145, although analysts at UBS argue BHP may have to go as high as $165; BHP's major shareholders intimate that would be too high.BHP is determined not to overpay and can point to the fact that its bid is the only one on the table. China's Sinochem sought to enter the fray with backing from Canadian pension funds and Temasek of Singapore, but the Chinese were put off by a report from Saskatchewan that hinted a bid from a state-owned company would be unwelcome. The Canadians also said that as a consumer and a producer, it would be in Sinochem's interests to keep prices low, limiting the size of tax receipts.Kloppers is betting an increasingly hungry world will pay dearly for potash as BHP makes its first major move into the global food industry.With demand for grain rising and less farmland available per person, the need for fertiliser - especially potash - has never been greater. BHP's bid is not just an attempt to diversify: it is a major bet that rising food demand will cause a significant growth in the use of the fertiliser.According to Potash Corp's website, more people are eating meat, and as incomes rise in developing nations, millions of people are switching from starch to protein-based diets. Every pound of beef requires seven pounds of grain to produce, and this has a substantial impact on demand, according to experts.", "tags": ["BHP Billiton", "Canada", "Australia news", "Mining", "Business", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Canada ready to rule on Potash takeover by BHP Billiton"},{"date": "2010-10-05T19:45:23Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Geoffrey Canada, the man credited with turning around black under-achievement in Harlem and the star guest at conference, has told Michael Gove that the teaching unions are the biggest threat to the education secretary's reforms.Canada has been hailed as a pioneer in education by Barack Obama. In an interview with the Guardian, Canada said he had told Gove that in the UK the unions constituted an inflexible brake which was \"killing\" the innovation necessary to transform children's lives, and that they \"cover up\" for failing teachers.Canada said: \"Our charter schools were not unionised. My contract with my teachers is fair, and is two pages. The union contract is 200 pages. You cannot manage your business when you cannot make any decision without going back to 200 pages worth of stuff.\"So that is inflexible. It kills innovation; it stops anything from changing. The only thing that we can do is what we did last year, and last year was another failure. So that to me makes no sense.\"Canada's advice is a challenge to England's main teaching unions, which are opposed to coalition plans to expand academies and free schools, arguing they do not believe these schools raise standards, while costing more money to run and creating social segregation.Asked what advice he had given Gove, Canada said: \"I have been very clear that this union issue has to be at the forefront if you're going to bring about reform.\"It's uncomfortable and people get anxious about it. But I just think you have to have the conversation; and until we began to have that conversation in the States, there was no sense that you have any movement and momentum building towards reform.\"Until the unions come up with a real plan for improving schools that have failed \u2013 that doesn't do what they have done [in the past] \u2013 I think they don't have a really strong argument why they should be in this conversation in terms of what the future is going to be.\"Canada grew up in a poor part of the New York Bronx, but went on to study at a prestigious liberal arts college and then specialise in education at Harvard.He set up a not-for-profit organisation in Harlem where all the services a child and parent should get \u2013 from antenatal tips to skills training and after school services \u2013 are provided.Called the Harlem Children's Zone, it has grown to cover 97 blocks. Obama has called for 20 similar \"promise neighbourhoods\" to do the same, across the US. Canada is now the subject of a film, Waiting for Superman, made by the director of An Inconvenient Truth.The inability to sack bad teachers was a \"real problem\", and removing them from the profession should be made a priority, Canada said.\"Most teachers are decent, and some are really great. But there are also some who are lousy, and should not be in the profession. And the inability to get rid of these teachers, I think, is a real problem, and should be a priority, because it's pretty indefensible.\"Unions that cover up for people who we know should not be in the profession, that's a problem; when it is explicit that you may not get rid of these people.\"Addressing the conference ahead of Gove's speech, Canada said he had earned unpopularity for calling attention to America's educational decline.\"I've been making sure everybody knows we have lost our way. We offer our children a third world education system. We are not in the top ten, and in many cases we are not even in the top 20. The fact is, we have mishandled the education system.\"Where his project operates in New York, public schools have been failing for 53 years, he said.\"Fifty-three years?\" he put it to conference. \"All those generations. What has been the consequence of that failure? Has anyone changed anything? Even though it hasn't worked for 53 years?\"Education is the only billion dollar industry that tolerates abject failure. Any other business that failed so spectacularly for fifty years, it would be out of business.\"Explaining his methods to conference, Canada said he tracked children from birth to college.\"You stop those kids at birth and you stay with those kids. You teach them the soft skills or learning, to shake off a disappointment, learning to concentrate. And you take responsibility.\"When we started our school, in Harlem, I said to our mayor \u2026 and I said to my board of trustees, I said \u2013 if I don't have a better school in five years than all the other private schools, I'm going to fire myself. And then I got my staff in and said 'but you all know I'll be the last one leaving'.\"", "tags": ["Conservative conference 2010", "Education policy", "Trade unions", "Conservative conference", "Teaching", "UK news"], "title": "Geoffrey Canada warns Michael Gove teaching unions 'kill' innovation"},{"date": "2010-11-25T21:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After fruitless job-hunting in the UK, my husband has had two job offers from Canada. Neither is ideal. The first is in a prairie town where, to quote someone who knows, \"The winters are long and frigid, the summers are boiling and with bugs the size of your head.\" It is quite a large place but in the middle of nowhere. Coming back to see family in the UK would be horrible with two small children, but it is, apparently, the most friendly place in the world.The second is in Quebec. It looks more cosmopolitan and cool. It is much closer \u2013 a six-hour drive to family \u2013 and it is nearer to the UK. The problem is my French is awful (I am willing to work on that) but also, I have been told the people can be very insular and frosty. The thought of speaking in another language all day makes me feel exhausted even thinking about it. Not accepting one or other is not an option. What would you do?\u2022 If you would like to respond to this week's problem, please post your comment below.When leaving a message on this page, please be sensitive to the fact that you are responding to a real person in the grip of a real-life dilemma, who wrote to Private Lives asking for help, and may well view your comments here. Please consider especially how your words or the tone of your message could be perceived by someone in this situation, and be aware that comments which appear to be disruptive or disrespectful to the individual concerned will not appear.\u2022 If you would like fellow readers to respond to a dilemma of yours, send us an outline of the situation of around 150 words. For advice from Pamela Stephenson Connolly on sexual matters, send us a brief description of your concerns.\u2022 All correspondence should reach us by Wednesday morning. Email: private.lives@theguardian.com (please don't send attachments).", "tags": ["Life and style", "Canada holidays"], "title": "A remote prairie town in Canada or French-speaking Quebec \u2013 where do we live?"},{"date": "2010-11-21T00:06:53Z", "country": "canada", "content": "What do Birmingham airport, the Channel tunnel rail link and the engineering conglomerate Tomkins have in common? They've all been bought by Canadians. The folks north of America's 49th parallel have no qualms about snapping up British assets, but it's a rather more complicated situation when foreign bidders try to enter Canada.The London-listed mining empire BHP Billiton was last week obliged to withdraw a $40bn (\u00a324bn) takeover for the world's largest producer of fertiliser ingredients, the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan, after Stephen Harper's government declared that a foreign buyout of the vast minerals enterprise wouldn't be of \"net benefit\" to Canada. The aborted deal has left BHP with a $350m expenses bill.At a Toronto press conference notable for its lack of detail, Canada's industry minister, Tony Clement, explained, supremely vaguely, that he was not convinced a buyout by BHP Billiton would create a \"significant net improvement in the level and nature of economic activity\" in Canada. It would not, he insisted under questioning, be appropriate to get into \"exquisite details\".Potash is a potassium-based soil nutrient used in soil fertilisers around the world. The Potash Corporation employs more than 5,000 people, tapping into a vast resource of the stuff beneath the prairies. It's a lucrative business. And the subtext here is pure party politics. The prospect of a foreign buyout was hugely unpopular in the province of Saskatchewan, which accounts for 14 seats in the Canadian parliament, 13 of which are held by conservatives supporting the country's minority government. An election is likely within a year.It's unusual for such a big deal to be vetoed out and out. But it's a reminder that many nations do not share Britain's blanket \"open for business\" attitude towards takeovers by foreign bidders. Cadbury, BAA, P&O, Abbey, Corus, Scottish & Newcastle, Jaguar \u2013 the list of British names that have fallen to overseas takeovers goes on and on. There's been speculation that BP, wounded by its catastrophic oil spill, could be the next to face a predator.Former business secretary Peter Mandelson wanted tougher safeguards against foreign deals \u2013 perhaps raising the voting threshold for a successful deal from 50% to 66% of shareholders, and requiring executives to consider the interests of employees, suppliers and brands alongside the out-and-out lure of cash.In Canada, political pragmatism rules and for sure, ministers stand open to accusations of hypocrisy. Canada has no qualms in jumping up and down about protectionism elsewhere; the country spent months furiously lobbying when the Obama administration restricted expenditure of its $770bn economic stimulus package to public works carried out by US companies.Still, you have to admire Ottawa's chutzpah in this unblinking, unflinching self-interest. When the US bookseller Amazon wanted to open a distribution hub in Canada, the government threatened a veto unless the Seattle-based firm agreed to pump millions into various cultural activities and awards to support local literature. Amazon promptly ponied up funds and promised dedicated staff to get more Canadian content on to its website and its Kindles.Canada also made it blatantly clear last year that CanWest, the country's media empire, would not be allowed to fall into foreign hands when part of the business filed for bankruptcy protection. It's partly down to this attitude that although Canada has endured Conrad Black, it's not been penetrated by Rupert Murdoch. This is imperfect, unfair and, at times, cynical \u2013 but could our government learn a lesson or two from Canadian bolshiness?", "tags": ["Mergers and acquisitions", "BHP Billiton", "Tomkins", "Heathrow Airports Authority", "Peter Mandelson", "Cadbury", "Canada", "World news", "Airline industry", "Americas"], "title": "Canada snaps up British companies, but slams the door on foreign investors"},{"date": "2010-10-18T16:54:40Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Two founders of BlueBay Asset Management are each to receive a \u00a382m windfall after agreeing to sell the London-listed company to Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) in a deal valuing the business at close to \u00a31bn.Hugh Willis, chief executive, and the chief investment officer, Mark Poole, who together previously headed JP Morgan's European credit arbitrage operations, founded BlueBay in 2001, floating the business four years ago.As well as further enriching the founders, the agreed sale will also provide a colossal payday for the group's 220 staff, who own more than 40% of shares.The European arm of the failed investment bank Lehman Brothers, now in administration, is also a big investor, with a holding of close to 5%.BlueBay, which has $40bn (\u00a325bn) of assets under management, has evolved from a hedge fund into a more conservative asset management operation.RBC's offer price of 485p a share represents a 29% premium to BlueBay's closing price of 375.70p on Friday.Shareholders will also receive a final dividend of 7.5p.Stuart Duncan, an analyst at KBC Peel Hunt, said: \"BlueBay is a highly attractive asset, which is trading well and delivering as expected. In our view, the offer price looks attractive but this must be put in context of 43% earnings growth forecast in 2011, followed by 26% in 2012.\"Willis and Poole have pledged to reinvest a quarter of their respective holdings under the terms of the deal and will continue to lead BlueBay, which will retain investment autonomy from RBC.Their windfall comes just months after the two founders each raised \u00a321m by selling 6.5m shares in a placing.RBC, which has recently expanded its operations in Europe, said the purchase will \"further strategy to leverage our position as a top 10 global wealth manager\".BlueBay has changed considerably since its flotation in 2006. In the past, profits were mostly driven by its hedge funds, including the special situations unit, which was co-led by its US fund manager, Gina Germano, who is now no longer with the firm.Germano's lucrative investments included Drax, Britain's largest power station, whose debt was purchased at a deep discount by BlueBay and other distressed funds after US owners AES walked away. A rally in electricity prices followed, later yielding a hefty profit to creditors, such as BlueBay, who had swapped their debt for equity.", "tags": ["Bluebay Asset Management", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Hedge funds", "Financial sector", "Business"], "title": "BlueBay founders expect \u00a382m windfall from Royal Bank of Canada sale"},{"date": "2010-10-20T17:25:51Z", "country": "canada", "content": "BHP Billiton is prepared to defer by several years about C$2bn (\u00a31.23bn) of tax credits in its hostile bid for Canada's Potash Corporation, the world's biggest fertiliser producer, as it fights to get the deal done in the face of mounting opposition.The Anglo-Australian miner is locked in discussions with the Canadian federal government after Potash's home province of Saskatchewan rejected the $39bn (\u00a324bn) offer, saying the deal would cut local tax revenues by about C$3bn over the next 10 years.The federal government ultimately makes the decision to clear or block the deal, but will be heavily influenced by Saskatchewan, where the deal is opposed by 55% of residents as well as the provincial government.About C$2bn of the losses Saskatchewan is claiming relate to tax credits BHP is due as a incentive for the Jansen plant, a separate potash mine planned to start production in 2015. If it acquires Potash, BHP will be able to transfer the tax credits and claim them early.The other C$1bn of lost tax receipts relates to write-offs that BHP would be able to make from the money it borrows to finance the deal. A spokesman said: \"BHP is confident it can address this [Saskatchewan's] concern and ... is prepared to make commitments which go beyond the requirements of prevailing Canadian legislation that should effectively address the tax loss concerns of the province.\"But Brad Wall, Saskatchewan premier, said: \"I still do not see how this BHP takeover of Potash Corp is a net benefit to Saskatchewan. In order for this takeover to be neutral in our view the province would need to see C$3bn come from somewhere.\"A BHP source said the C$3bn would be made up by deferring the bulk of the Jansen tax credits until after the plant opened.It is understood that BHP has no intention of satisfying additional requests from Saskatchewan, which is asking for a one-off special upfront tax payment of more than C$1bn.", "tags": ["BHP Billiton", "Mining", "Business", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "BHP locks horns with Canada over Saskatchewan taxes in Potash bid"},{"date": "2010-12-11T00:06:41Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When you're constantly hopping between different cultures (I host a television travel show), it's easy to put your foot in it. Recently, I rudely laughed at a friend when he told me that a bar in Canada's Yukon Territory served the most disgusting drink in the world.You generally have to head east to savour the exotic fringes of world cuisine: live baby mice in China, boiled spiders in Cambodia, fertilised duck eggs in the Philippines. In Canada, you can buy beaver tails, but that's just the name for deep-fried sugared pastries. I had belittled my friend because the legendary Sour Toe Cocktail, as served in Yukon's Dawson City, could not possibly be real. After all, why would you drop a severed human toe into a beverage? Really, I just didn't think Canada had it in her.Dawson City boomed as a major centre of the short-lived Klondike Gold Rush. Between 1896 and 1898, the population swelled to 40,000, and it was the largest city north of San Francisco. By 1902, the gold had dried up, along with dreams of fame and fortune. Dawson City quickly turned into a small outpost with sinking wooden storefronts; the population fell to 1,300.In 1973, a local eccentric was thinking of a way to capitalise on the summer tourist traffic heading to the Top of the World Highway. Captain Dick, as he is known, found a severed toe in an old log cabin. Now, when the temperature plummets to -55C, men are known to do strange things, including, as Gold Rush poems suggest, set themselves on fire to avoid dying of cold.A veteran inhabitant of the territory who has braved an entire winter there is known as a Yukon Sourdough. (They have a winter festival in the capital, Whitehorse.) Captain Dick dropped the toe into a glass of champagne, and called it the Sour Toe Cocktail. He started a club, crowning himself the Toe Captain. To join it, all you had to do was take a drink and let the toe touch your lips. Word spread. The legend was born.Nearly four decades later, I walk into the Downtown Hotel, chilled to my bones. Captain Al, tonight's Toe Captain, is awaiting new customers at the bar. Behind the counter sits the eighth toe, preserved in a jar of salt. Over the years, toes have been stolen, lost and, in some cases, swallowed. The 8th toe is a sickeningly big digit, donated by an American who lost it in a lawnmower accident.I pay $5 for a tumbler of Yukon Gold whiskey (the cocktail is available with any drink now, even non-alcoholic ones), and $5 to join the club. There's no doubting the authenticity of the digit. It's yellowed and pickled by the salt, with a broken nail. My stomach lurches. Captain Al launches into a well-rehearsed ritual: \"Drink it fast, or drink it slow, but either way, your lips must touch this gnarly looking toe!\"I close my eyes, taste the whiskey, and indulge in this ceremony of cocktail cannibalism. Not too bad, perhaps a little too much toe-jam on the high notes.Captain Al tells me the club has over 60,000 members. Anyone of drinking age can join, and since the Downtown Hotel is not responsible for what you put in your drink after you've bought it, the health authorities are powerless to do much about it. Tourists now visit Dawson City specifically to go toe-to-toe with this challenging libation, much as Captain Dick anticipated.With my name logged in the book, I received a card confirming membership of the Sour Toe Cocktail Club \u2013 and then immediately emailed my friend to apologise for having dismissed his story.\u2022 sourtoecocktailclub.com. Double rooms at the Downtown Hotel, Dawson City (+1 867 993 5346, downtownhotel.ca) cost from \u00a372 a nightRobin Esrock (robinesrock.com) co-hosts Word Travels on the Travel Channel", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "My travels: Robin Esrock in Canada"},{"date": "2010-12-14T20:33:58Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Wednesday, 09 July 2008, 18:49S E C R E T SECTION 01 OF 03 OTTAWA 000918 C O R R E C T E D COPY//SUBJECT LINE////////////////////////////////// NOFORN SIPDIS EO 12958 DECL: 07/09/2018 TAGS PREL, PTER, MOPS, IR, PK, AF, CA SUBJECT: COUNSELOR, CSIS DIRECTOR DISCUSS CT THREATS, PAKISTAN, AFGHANISTAN, IRANREF: A. OTTAWA 360 B. OTTAWA 808 C. OTTAWA 850 D. OTTAWA 878OTTAWA 00000918 001.2 OF 003Classified By: PolMinCouns Scott Bellard, reasons, 1.4 (b) and (d).1. (S/NF) Summary. Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) Director Judd discussed domestic and foreign terror threats with Counselor of the State Department Cohen in Ottawa on July 2. Judd admitted that CSIS was increasingly distracted from its mission by legal challenges that could endanger foreign intelligence-sharing with Canadian agencies. He predicted that the upcoming release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr's interrogation by Canadian officials would lead to heightened pressure on the government to press for his return to Canada, which the government would continue to resist. Judd shared Dr. Cohen's negative assessment of current political, economic, and security trends in Pakistan, and was worried about what it would mean for the ISAF mission in Afghanistan. Canada has begun formulating an inter-agency Pakistan strategy, and CSIS had agreed to open a channel to Iran's intelligence service which Judd has not yet \"figured out.\" (Septel will cover Dr. Cohen's discussions regarding Pakistan and the OEF and ISAF missions in Afghanistan.) End summary.2. (S/NF) Counselor of the Department of State Eliot Cohen and CSIS Director Jim Judd in Ottawa on July 2 discussed threats posed by violent Islamist groups in Canada, and recent developments in Pakistan and Afghanistan. (CSIS is Canada's lead agency for national security intelligence.) Director Judd ascribed an \"Alice in Wonderland\" worldview to Canadians and their courts, whose judges have tied CSIS \"in knots,\" making it ever more difficult to detect and prevent terror attacks in Canada and abroad. The situation, he commented, left government security agencies on the defensive and losing public support for their effort to protect Canada and its allies.Legal Wrangling Risks Chill Effect----------------------------------3. (S/NF) XXXXXXXXXXXX4. (S/NF) Judd derided recent judgments in Canada's courts that threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- Qthat threaten to undermine foreign government intelligence- and information-sharing with Canada. These judgments posit that Canadian authorities cannot use information that \"may have been\" derived from torture, and that any Canadian public official who conveys such information may be subject to criminal prosecution. This, he commented, put the government in a reverse-onus situation whereby it would have to \"prove\" the innocence of partner nations in the face of assumed wrongdoing.5. (S/NF) Judd credited Prime Minister Stephen Harper's minority Conservative government for \"taking it on the chin and pressing ahead\" with common sense measures despite court challenges and political knocks from the opposition and interest groups. When asked to look to the future, Judd predicted that Canada would soon implement UK-like legal procedures that make intelligence available to \"vetted defense lawyers who see everything the judge sees.\"OTTAWA 00000918 002.2 OF 003Terror Cases and Communities Present Mixed Pictures--------------------------------------------- ------6. (C/NF) Judd commented that cherry-picked sections of the court-ordered release of a DVD of Guantanamo detainee and Canadian citizen Omar Khadr (ref D) would likely show three (Canadian) adults interrogating a kid who breaks down in tears. He observed that the images would no doubt trigger \"knee-jerk anti-Americanism\" and \"paroxysms of moral outrage, a Canadian specialty,\" as well as lead to a new round of heightened pressure on the government to press for Khadr's return to Canada. He predicted that PM Harper's government would nonetheless continue to resist this pressure. 7. (C) The Director mentioned other major cases that also presented CSIS with major legal headaches due to the use of intelligence products in their development: Momin Khawaja has been on trial for his role in an Al Qaeda UK bomb plot since June 23 in the first major test of Canada's 2001 Anti-Terrorism Act, and Canada's ability to protect intelligence supplied by foreign government sources (ref D); the trial of the first of the home-grown Toronto 11 (down from 18) terror plotters, which is also now underway; and, the prosecution of XXXXXXXXXXXX.8. (C) Judd said he viewed Khawaja and his \"ilk\" as outliers, due in part to the fact that Canada's ethnic Pakistani community is unlike its ghettoized and poorly educated UK counterpart. It is largely made up of traders, lawyers, doctors, engineers, and others who see promise for themselves and their children in North America, he observed, so its members are unlikely to engage in domestic terror plots. He said that therefore CSIS main domestic focus is instead on fundraising and procurement, as well as the recruitment of a small number of Canadian \"wannabes\" of Pakistani origin for mostly overseas operations.Pakistan and Afghanistan------------------------9. (C) Turning to Pakistan, Counselor Cohen briefed his recent trip to Islamabad and Peshawar, noting his alarm at the degrading economic, political, and security situation there, and its implications for Pakistan, Afghan, and regional stability. Judd responded that Dr. Cohen's sober assessment tracked with CSIS' own view of Pakistan, and that \"it is hard to see a good outcome there\" due to that country's political, economic, and security failures, on top of fast-rising oil and food prices. Canada does not have an explicit strategy for Pakistan, Judd said, but Privy Council Deputy Secretary David Mulroney (who leads the interagency on Afghanistan) now has the lead on developing one (septel). Dr. Cohen remarked, and Judd agreed, that it would be necessary to avoid approaching Pakistan as simply an adjunct to the ISAF and OEF missions in Afghanistan.10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Q10. (S/NF) CSIS is far from being \"high-five mode\" on Afghanistan, Judd asserted, due in part to Karzai's weak leadership, widespread corruption, the lack of will to press ahead on counter-narcotics, limited Afghan security force capability (particularly the police) and, most recently, the Sarpoza prison break. He commented that CSIS had seen Sarpoza coming, and its link to the Quetta Shura in Pakistan, but could not get a handle on the timing.Iranian Outreach----------------11. (S/NF) Judd added that he and his colleagues are \"very, very worried\" about Iran. CSIS recently talked to Iran's Ministry of Intelligence and Security (MOIS) after that agency requested its own channel of communication to Canada, he said. The Iranians agreed to \"help\" on Afghan issues, including sharing information regarding potential attacks. However, \"we have not figured out what they are up to,\" Judd confided, since it is clear that the \"Iranians want ISAF to bleed...slowly.\"OTTAWA 00000918 003.2 OF 00312. (U) Dr. Cohen has cleared this message.Visit Canada,s Economy and Environment Forum at http://www.intelink.gov/communities/state/can adaWILKINS", "tags": ["Canada", "Pakistan", "Iran", "Afghanistan", "Guant\u00e1namo Bay", "US foreign policy", "The US embassy cables", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "US embassy cables: Terror suspects, Canada and the law"},{"date": "2010-11-09T12:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine if you took the historic records of everyone who died in the first world war. Then you matched them to one area to see how it had been affected. Or if you wanted to see if one part of your city had an epidemic of bedbugs. Or if you wanted to find out where the most guns are.This is the work of data journalist Patrick Cain, quietly and methodically producing strikingly interesting maps of his home city of Toronto. It's the pinnacle of what data journalism is supposed to be about. And, if you're looking for innovative data journalism, vast open data resources and the latest open data apps, Canada is a good place to start.Enthralled by open data initiatives around the world, Canadians from Ottawa to Vancouver are embracing spreadsheets as never before \u2013 and producing great work which you don't often hear about outside the country.Patrick Cain works by doggedly pursuing datasets, often from official sources which don't want to know \u2013 but bolstered by a powerful freedom of information system:If something is uncontroversial (like dog licences by postal code) there are often no issues about releasing it. On the other side, we have the sex offender database, which I've been trying to get access to since the spring in 2008. Sometimes there is ineffective resistance, like the landlord and tenant appeal board that tried to get me to sign a non-disclosure agreement. Mostly I get things in the mail as the law demands \u2026 Everybody (including me) likes the rage-against-the-machine stories, but in the majority of cases the system works more or less as intended.Cain is one of the most established of the new breed. Names mentioned by those in the know include Chad Skelton on the Vancouver Sun, Rob Cribb at the Toronto Star; David McKie at CBC and Glen McGregor at the Ottawa Citizen.Toronto's open data intitiative is run by a small team of enthusiasts in the city authority's web department. Led by Trish Garner, the unit updates the site every day with raw datasets from local election results to detailed boundary mapping. And all in addition to their day job of keeping the city's tech running. She's inspired by the worldwide open data movement. I think there's a large community of developers in Toronto and across Canada which is inspired by what's going on in the UK and in the US under the Obama administration and want to see change here at home. A good majority have registered with us and are quite avidly following what we're doing.Politically, she says support is growing:There has been solid support from the very top - our Mayor - and from the City Clerk and the CIO. Indications are that the mayor-elect [Rob Ford was elected earlier this month] will also be a champion. This is key for us. I have to say, too, that it wouldn't be possible to carry on without the constructive feedback and support we've received from the developer community and the dedication and enthusiasm of a bright, highly motivated, energetic team. They love what they do and they have fun.The Canadian government is consulting on an open data policy and recently, Canada's biggest open data sites \u2013 Toronto, Vancouver, Ottawa and Edmonton \u2013 have started getting together to set a series of open data standards. Jury Konga, who has been helping to create the G4 Open Data Framework (you can see some of his presentations here) says cities all over Canada are jumping onto the open data train: you can see our collection of Canadian open data sites here. He adds:Canada is a hive of activity in Open Government and Open Data and I only see it increasing \u2026 We have also seen Open Data surface in the political realm where the Liberal Party of Canada recently put forward a new policy of Open Gov - Open Data and mayoral candidates in Toronto advocated increasing the Open Data program in Toronto \u2026 I am escstatic with the progress we've made BUT there is much more to do.Here are some apps built with Open Toronto data - is there anything you've built we should list? Post it in the comment field below.Two different approaches to Toronto's recent municipal elections, both using the city's live ward by ward election feed and results. ShareToronto has done the same in other Canadian city electionsTwitter live bulletins from the city's huge traffic boardsTakes Canadian data \u2013 including from Toronto \u2013 and maps it to give you a complete local picture of the cityTakes the city's realtime travel information to map exactly where each tram is. Will eventually include buses and metro trainsUses the city's cycle routes data to help plan bike journeysFlickr Please post your visualisations and mash-ups on our Flickr group or mail us at datastore@guardian.co.uk\u2022 Search the world's government datasets\u2022 More environment data\u2022 Get the A-Z of data\u2022 More at the Datastore directory\u2022 Follow us on Twitter", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Free our data", "Government data", "Technology", "Americas", "Data journalism"], "title": "How Canada became an open data and data journalism powerhouse"},{"date": "2010-11-03T00:06:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is poised to rule on whether to approve a \u00a324bn hostile takeover of Potash Corporation by Anglo-Australian mining group BHP Billiton.The takeover is part of an international struggle to secure global commodity supplies against a backdrop of soaring demand and population growth in emerging economies.Potash Corporation, based in Saskatchewan, is one of Canada's largest companies and the world's biggest producer of potash, a key ingredient of food fertiliser. Demand for potash has leapt as countries such as China and India seek to boost crop yields to meet increased consumption, especially among a burgeoning middle class.But the hostile bid for Potash by BHP, headed by South African-born Marius Kloppers, has run into opposition from Saskatchewan, as well as other Canadian state governments, who argue it is foolhardy to hand a fifth of global potash supplies to a foreign firm.Now the ball is in the court of the federal government which must decide by midnight Canadian time today (4.00am GMT) whether BHP's move will be a net benefit to Canada and meet stringent foreign investment rules.Reports from Canada have indicated that Ottawa could sanction the deal, but only if BHP agrees to spend billions on Canadian infrastructure projects to compensate Canada for lost royalty and tax payments.Analysts say Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper is being pulled in different directions; protectionists argue it would be \"criminal\" to hand over one of the country's crown jewels to an overseas multinational, while champions of free trade fear that Canadian companies could face tit-for-tat measures when they seek to expand overseas if Harper blocks BHP.\"The devil will be in the detail,\" said one analyst, \"if the strings attached are too stretching for BHP, it could affect to what extent it sweetens its offer; or whether it offers anything extra at all,\" he adds.As potash prices have been heading north since BHP first tabled its hostile bid in August, brokers have argued BHP will have to raise its offer price to persuade 50% of Potash's shareholders to accept the deal.City sources suggest Kloppers could offer 10% above the current price of $130 a share to a level nearer $145, although analysts at UBS argue BHP may have to go as high as $165; BHP's major shareholders intimate that would be too high.BHP is determined not to overpay and can point to the fact that its bid is the only one on the table. China's Sinochem sought to enter the fray with backing from Canadian pension funds and Temasek of Singapore, but the Chinese were put off by a report from Saskatchewan that hinted a bid from a state-owned company would be unwelcome. The Canadians also said that as a consumer and a producer, it would be in Sinochem's interests to keep prices low, limiting the size of tax receipts.Kloppers is betting an increasingly hungry world will pay dearly for potash as BHP makes its first major move into the global food industry.With demand for grain rising and less farmland available per person, the need for fertiliser - especially potash - has never been greater. BHP's bid is not just an attempt to diversify: it is a major bet that rising food demand will cause a significant growth in the use of the fertiliser.According to Potash Corp's website, more people are eating meat, and as incomes rise in developing nations, millions of people are switching from starch to protein-based diets. Every pound of beef requires seven pounds of grain to produce, and this has a substantial impact on demand, according to experts.", "tags": ["BHP Billiton", "Canada", "Australia news", "Mining", "Business", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Canada ready to rule on Potash takeover by BHP Billiton"},{"date": "2010-10-05T19:45:23Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Geoffrey Canada, the man credited with turning around black under-achievement in Harlem and the star guest at conference, has told Michael Gove that the teaching unions are the biggest threat to the education secretary's reforms.Canada has been hailed as a pioneer in education by Barack Obama. In an interview with the Guardian, Canada said he had told Gove that in the UK the unions constituted an inflexible brake which was \"killing\" the innovation necessary to transform children's lives, and that they \"cover up\" for failing teachers.Canada said: \"Our charter schools were not unionised. My contract with my teachers is fair, and is two pages. The union contract is 200 pages. You cannot manage your business when you cannot make any decision without going back to 200 pages worth of stuff.\"So that is inflexible. It kills innovation; it stops anything from changing. The only thing that we can do is what we did last year, and last year was another failure. So that to me makes no sense.\"Canada's advice is a challenge to England's main teaching unions, which are opposed to coalition plans to expand academies and free schools, arguing they do not believe these schools raise standards, while costing more money to run and creating social segregation.Asked what advice he had given Gove, Canada said: \"I have been very clear that this union issue has to be at the forefront if you're going to bring about reform.\"It's uncomfortable and people get anxious about it. But I just think you have to have the conversation; and until we began to have that conversation in the States, there was no sense that you have any movement and momentum building towards reform.\"Until the unions come up with a real plan for improving schools that have failed \u2013 that doesn't do what they have done [in the past] \u2013 I think they don't have a really strong argument why they should be in this conversation in terms of what the future is going to be.\"Canada grew up in a poor part of the New York Bronx, but went on to study at a prestigious liberal arts college and then specialise in education at Harvard.He set up a not-for-profit organisation in Harlem where all the services a child and parent should get \u2013 from antenatal tips to skills training and after school services \u2013 are provided.Called the Harlem Children's Zone, it has grown to cover 97 blocks. Obama has called for 20 similar \"promise neighbourhoods\" to do the same, across the US. Canada is now the subject of a film, Waiting for Superman, made by the director of An Inconvenient Truth.The inability to sack bad teachers was a \"real problem\", and removing them from the profession should be made a priority, Canada said.\"Most teachers are decent, and some are really great. But there are also some who are lousy, and should not be in the profession. And the inability to get rid of these teachers, I think, is a real problem, and should be a priority, because it's pretty indefensible.\"Unions that cover up for people who we know should not be in the profession, that's a problem; when it is explicit that you may not get rid of these people.\"Addressing the conference ahead of Gove's speech, Canada said he had earned unpopularity for calling attention to America's educational decline.\"I've been making sure everybody knows we have lost our way. We offer our children a third world education system. We are not in the top ten, and in many cases we are not even in the top 20. The fact is, we have mishandled the education system.\"Where his project operates in New York, public schools have been failing for 53 years, he said.\"Fifty-three years?\" he put it to conference. \"All those generations. What has been the consequence of that failure? Has anyone changed anything? Even though it hasn't worked for 53 years?\"Education is the only billion dollar industry that tolerates abject failure. Any other business that failed so spectacularly for fifty years, it would be out of business.\"Explaining his methods to conference, Canada said he tracked children from birth to college.\"You stop those kids at birth and you stay with those kids. You teach them the soft skills or learning, to shake off a disappointment, learning to concentrate. And you take responsibility.\"When we started our school, in Harlem, I said to our mayor \u2026 and I said to my board of trustees, I said \u2013 if I don't have a better school in five years than all the other private schools, I'm going to fire myself. And then I got my staff in and said 'but you all know I'll be the last one leaving'.\"", "tags": ["Conservative conference 2010", "Education policy", "Trade unions", "Conservative conference", "Teaching", "UK news"], "title": "Geoffrey Canada warns Michael Gove teaching unions 'kill' innovation"},{"date": "2010-11-25T21:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After fruitless job-hunting in the UK, my husband has had two job offers from Canada. Neither is ideal. The first is in a prairie town where, to quote someone who knows, \"The winters are long and frigid, the summers are boiling and with bugs the size of your head.\" It is quite a large place but in the middle of nowhere. Coming back to see family in the UK would be horrible with two small children, but it is, apparently, the most friendly place in the world.The second is in Quebec. It looks more cosmopolitan and cool. It is much closer \u2013 a six-hour drive to family \u2013 and it is nearer to the UK. The problem is my French is awful (I am willing to work on that) but also, I have been told the people can be very insular and frosty. The thought of speaking in another language all day makes me feel exhausted even thinking about it. Not accepting one or other is not an option. What would you do?\u2022 If you would like to respond to this week's problem, please post your comment below.When leaving a message on this page, please be sensitive to the fact that you are responding to a real person in the grip of a real-life dilemma, who wrote to Private Lives asking for help, and may well view your comments here. Please consider especially how your words or the tone of your message could be perceived by someone in this situation, and be aware that comments which appear to be disruptive or disrespectful to the individual concerned will not appear.\u2022 If you would like fellow readers to respond to a dilemma of yours, send us an outline of the situation of around 150 words. For advice from Pamela Stephenson Connolly on sexual matters, send us a brief description of your concerns.\u2022 All correspondence should reach us by Wednesday morning. Email: private.lives@theguardian.com (please don't send attachments).", "tags": ["Life and style", "Canada holidays"], "title": "A remote prairie town in Canada or French-speaking Quebec \u2013 where do we live?"},{"date": "2010-11-21T00:06:53Z", "country": "canada", "content": "What do Birmingham airport, the Channel tunnel rail link and the engineering conglomerate Tomkins have in common? They've all been bought by Canadians. The folks north of America's 49th parallel have no qualms about snapping up British assets, but it's a rather more complicated situation when foreign bidders try to enter Canada.The London-listed mining empire BHP Billiton was last week obliged to withdraw a $40bn (\u00a324bn) takeover for the world's largest producer of fertiliser ingredients, the Potash Corporation of Saskatchewan, after Stephen Harper's government declared that a foreign buyout of the vast minerals enterprise wouldn't be of \"net benefit\" to Canada. The aborted deal has left BHP with a $350m expenses bill.At a Toronto press conference notable for its lack of detail, Canada's industry minister, Tony Clement, explained, supremely vaguely, that he was not convinced a buyout by BHP Billiton would create a \"significant net improvement in the level and nature of economic activity\" in Canada. It would not, he insisted under questioning, be appropriate to get into \"exquisite details\".Potash is a potassium-based soil nutrient used in soil fertilisers around the world. The Potash Corporation employs more than 5,000 people, tapping into a vast resource of the stuff beneath the prairies. It's a lucrative business. And the subtext here is pure party politics. The prospect of a foreign buyout was hugely unpopular in the province of Saskatchewan, which accounts for 14 seats in the Canadian parliament, 13 of which are held by conservatives supporting the country's minority government. An election is likely within a year.It's unusual for such a big deal to be vetoed out and out. But it's a reminder that many nations do not share Britain's blanket \"open for business\" attitude towards takeovers by foreign bidders. Cadbury, BAA, P&O, Abbey, Corus, Scottish & Newcastle, Jaguar \u2013 the list of British names that have fallen to overseas takeovers goes on and on. There's been speculation that BP, wounded by its catastrophic oil spill, could be the next to face a predator.Former business secretary Peter Mandelson wanted tougher safeguards against foreign deals \u2013 perhaps raising the voting threshold for a successful deal from 50% to 66% of shareholders, and requiring executives to consider the interests of employees, suppliers and brands alongside the out-and-out lure of cash.In Canada, political pragmatism rules and for sure, ministers stand open to accusations of hypocrisy. Canada has no qualms in jumping up and down about protectionism elsewhere; the country spent months furiously lobbying when the Obama administration restricted expenditure of its $770bn economic stimulus package to public works carried out by US companies.Still, you have to admire Ottawa's chutzpah in this unblinking, unflinching self-interest. When the US bookseller Amazon wanted to open a distribution hub in Canada, the government threatened a veto unless the Seattle-based firm agreed to pump millions into various cultural activities and awards to support local literature. Amazon promptly ponied up funds and promised dedicated staff to get more Canadian content on to its website and its Kindles.Canada also made it blatantly clear last year that CanWest, the country's media empire, would not be allowed to fall into foreign hands when part of the business filed for bankruptcy protection. It's partly down to this attitude that although Canada has endured Conrad Black, it's not been penetrated by Rupert Murdoch. This is imperfect, unfair and, at times, cynical \u2013 but could our government learn a lesson or two from Canadian bolshiness?", "tags": ["Mergers and acquisitions", "BHP Billiton", "Tomkins", "Heathrow Airports Authority", "Peter Mandelson", "Cadbury", "Canada", "World news", "Airline industry", "Americas"], "title": "Canada snaps up British companies, but slams the door on foreign investors"},{"date": "2010-10-18T16:54:40Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Two founders of BlueBay Asset Management are each to receive a \u00a382m windfall after agreeing to sell the London-listed company to Royal Bank of Canada (RBC) in a deal valuing the business at close to \u00a31bn.Hugh Willis, chief executive, and the chief investment officer, Mark Poole, who together previously headed JP Morgan's European credit arbitrage operations, founded BlueBay in 2001, floating the business four years ago.As well as further enriching the founders, the agreed sale will also provide a colossal payday for the group's 220 staff, who own more than 40% of shares.The European arm of the failed investment bank Lehman Brothers, now in administration, is also a big investor, with a holding of close to 5%.BlueBay, which has $40bn (\u00a325bn) of assets under management, has evolved from a hedge fund into a more conservative asset management operation.RBC's offer price of 485p a share represents a 29% premium to BlueBay's closing price of 375.70p on Friday.Shareholders will also receive a final dividend of 7.5p.Stuart Duncan, an analyst at KBC Peel Hunt, said: \"BlueBay is a highly attractive asset, which is trading well and delivering as expected. In our view, the offer price looks attractive but this must be put in context of 43% earnings growth forecast in 2011, followed by 26% in 2012.\"Willis and Poole have pledged to reinvest a quarter of their respective holdings under the terms of the deal and will continue to lead BlueBay, which will retain investment autonomy from RBC.Their windfall comes just months after the two founders each raised \u00a321m by selling 6.5m shares in a placing.RBC, which has recently expanded its operations in Europe, said the purchase will \"further strategy to leverage our position as a top 10 global wealth manager\".BlueBay has changed considerably since its flotation in 2006. In the past, profits were mostly driven by its hedge funds, including the special situations unit, which was co-led by its US fund manager, Gina Germano, who is now no longer with the firm.Germano's lucrative investments included Drax, Britain's largest power station, whose debt was purchased at a deep discount by BlueBay and other distressed funds after US owners AES walked away. A rally in electricity prices followed, later yielding a hefty profit to creditors, such as BlueBay, who had swapped their debt for equity.", "tags": ["Bluebay Asset Management", "Mergers and acquisitions", "Hedge funds", "Financial sector", "Business"], "title": "BlueBay founders expect \u00a382m windfall from Royal Bank of Canada sale"},{"date": "2010-10-20T17:25:51Z", "country": "canada", "content": "BHP Billiton is prepared to defer by several years about C$2bn (\u00a31.23bn) of tax credits in its hostile bid for Canada's Potash Corporation, the world's biggest fertiliser producer, as it fights to get the deal done in the face of mounting opposition.The Anglo-Australian miner is locked in discussions with the Canadian federal government after Potash's home province of Saskatchewan rejected the $39bn (\u00a324bn) offer, saying the deal would cut local tax revenues by about C$3bn over the next 10 years.The federal government ultimately makes the decision to clear or block the deal, but will be heavily influenced by Saskatchewan, where the deal is opposed by 55% of residents as well as the provincial government.About C$2bn of the losses Saskatchewan is claiming relate to tax credits BHP is due as a incentive for the Jansen plant, a separate potash mine planned to start production in 2015. If it acquires Potash, BHP will be able to transfer the tax credits and claim them early.The other C$1bn of lost tax receipts relates to write-offs that BHP would be able to make from the money it borrows to finance the deal. A spokesman said: \"BHP is confident it can address this [Saskatchewan's] concern and ... is prepared to make commitments which go beyond the requirements of prevailing Canadian legislation that should effectively address the tax loss concerns of the province.\"But Brad Wall, Saskatchewan premier, said: \"I still do not see how this BHP takeover of Potash Corp is a net benefit to Saskatchewan. In order for this takeover to be neutral in our view the province would need to see C$3bn come from somewhere.\"A BHP source said the C$3bn would be made up by deferring the bulk of the Jansen tax credits until after the plant opened.It is understood that BHP has no intention of satisfying additional requests from Saskatchewan, which is asking for a one-off special upfront tax payment of more than C$1bn.", "tags": ["BHP Billiton", "Mining", "Business", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "BHP locks horns with Canada over Saskatchewan taxes in Potash bid"},{"date": "2010-10-09T23:04:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The young boy ran up to his headteacher and flung his arms around her. \"I love you, Miss Ragland!\" he exclaimed. Sheryl Ragland gently prised him away. \"I love you too, sweetie,\" the 38-year-old principal replied and then ushered him back into his classroom and his chattering, neatly uniformed classmates.Not the sort of happy scene usually associated with a school smack in the middle of Harlem, a troubled inner-city neighbourhood whose storied history as the heart of black America is often overshadowed by its poverty, drug crime and social problems.But Ragland's Promise Academy II is no ordinary school. While other public schools in Harlem struggle with high dropout rates and poor grades, this school is part of the ground-breaking Harlem Children's Zone (HCZ) project. Set up by outspoken US educator Geoffrey Canada, the Children's Zone is causing a stir across America by creating a centre of academic excellence smack in the middle of one of the most deprived areas of New York.The school has been lauded by Barack Obama, who now aims to extend its model to 20 other US cities. It also features prominently in the current hit US documentary Waiting for Superman, which laments the shocking state of public education and holds up the Children's Zone as a solution. And Canada's ideas could be coming to Britain. Last week he was invited to speak at the Tory party conference and met with the education secretary, Michael Gove, spelling out what lessons he thought Britain could learn from his Harlem experiment.Back in New York, his ground-breaking model has provoked controversy as well as plaudits from the White House.On the face of it the Children's Zone appears to offer many tips for success. So popular are the two schools it runs in Harlem that they are vastly oversubscribed and gaining entrance to them is a lottery. Literally. In heart-rending scenes in Waiting for Superman, which was directed by An Inconvenient Truth director Davis Guggenheim, parents and children are shown watching as numbered balls are pulled out of a tombola. If their numbers come up they get in; if not, then it's off to a local public school and, potentially, a very different kind of life.Walking the corridors of the Children's Zone's two schools \u2013 both classed as \"charter schools\", which get public money but are free of many of the rules of the public school system \u2013 it is no wonder so many Harlem families want their kids to go there. For most kids going to school in Harlem, the idea of going to college is a distant dream, but in HCZ schools it is an ever-present aim. The walls are lined with motivational posters. \"Failure is not an option,\" reads one poster hanging from a ceiling, while on the reverse it states: \"I am on a path to success. I am college bound.\" That message is backed up each morning when pupils (\"scholars\") recite a chant: \"I will go to college; I will succeed; this is my promise; this is my creed.\"In lessons, too, the emphasis on college is never far away. While 13 teenage pupils sat quietly in a maths class, teacher Jim Harrell prepared them for a test the next morning. He coached them with a short speech. \"When you are in college you are going to have to take some math classes,\" he said. Even in kindergarten, HCZ children are already learning Spanish as a foreign language. Yet all this is happening in an area where HCZ staff still patrol the main roads to protect pupils from drug gangs on the way home. \"The services they are providing are exceptional for disenfranchised people in the Harlem community,\" said Luis Huerta, professor of education and public policy at Columbia University.It is no wonder then that HCZ and its charismatic founder have been lauded. The school seems to be solving one of America's most troubling problems: the collapsing standards of much of the nation's public education system, especially in poor, minority neighbourhoods like Harlem. The figures are shocking. In New York, just 28% of black males graduate from high school. Roughly 1.2 million black male students drop out of school each year nationwide. In an economy reeling from the recession and high unemployment, their prospects are grim and getting grimmer.But it is not just minorities. Waiting for Superman points out that the current crop of US pupils will be the first generation in America to be less literate than the previous one.Some education reformers, especially on the right, believe that charter schools are the answer, hailing Waiting for Superman and its message of schools breaking free of central control. Others think it is not quite that simple. Teaching unions believe that charter schools are being used as a tool to break union power. They accuse Waiting for Superman of furthering that anti-union agenda and taking far too simplistic an approach to a vastly complex problem. \"It was a Hollywood movie with a Hollywood solution,\" said Peter Kadushin, a spokesman for the United Federation of Teachers in New\u00a0York.Recent school progress reports in the city also cast doubt on the idea that charter schools are a \"magic pill\" and more of them will solve the nation's education woes. The studies actually showed that a higher percentage of city public schools were being rated as an A or a B than charter schools.The fact is that the success of the Children's Zone in Harlem is not built on charter schools alone. The project, which covers a 100-block swath of Harlem, also provides social services. It hosts parenting classes for expectant couples, provides a clinic for pupils that is often their only real chance of getting healthcare, and keeps in touch with former pupils who have gone to college, encouraging them to stay there at all costs. It also works with nine local public schools \u2013 while 1,400 children go to charter schools, another 8,000 benefit from Children's Zone programmes, such as after-school lessons. In short, the HCZ is far more than just a charter school group and more like an aid organisation rebuilding a community.\"We are essentially like a parent to the kids in the neighbourhood. A good parent, always hovering nearby, and we will intervene to solve a problem,\" said Marty Lipp, the project's communication director. Lipp pointed out that HCZ's remit was basically to shepherd a Harlem child all the way from \"cradle to college\".Huerta argues that HCZ's blanket approach to its neighbourhood's social needs means that the financial cost per pupil is too high to be replicated nationwide. Or at least not until someone is brave enough to suggest spending billions of extra dollars on education, which does not seem politically likely.\"Waiting for Superman is seducing a lot of people into thinking what happens in Harlem is sustainable at a wider scale. But the costs are astronomical,\" Huerta\u00a0said.", "tags": ["US politics", "US news", "World news"], "title": "Can Geoffrey Canada rescue America's ailing schools? Barack Obama hopes so"},{"date": "2011-03-22T14:01:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Early one crisp winter morning, I took a walk up to Gold Mine Lake, several kilometres inland from our friends' cottage on the Ottawa river.The frozen creek was only lightly covered with snow, making my snowshoes and ski poles superfluous. Still, it was comforting to have them, as I recalled going through a shallow patch here last winter, in the lee of a beaver dam where moving water thins the ice.I was glad I had decided not to have breakfast. The slight edge of hunger made a walk in the wild more acute, bringing home a greater awareness of the integrity of humans and nature that we rarely experience in the city. It was reassuring, though, to have a small package of trail mix and matches in my pocket in this frozen wonderland.The diversity of life in the boreal forest, even in the winter, never ceases to amaze. Despite their slower pace, the interdependencies of trees, grasses, water, soil and air are obvious to those lucky enough to recognise them. On the long abandoned horse-drawn rail bed leading to the mine, I ran across a poplar sapling severed in two and suspended from the crook of another tree. A beaver had dragged off the bottom and, unable to reach the top half, left it suspended. Hauling it down, I followed the beaver's waddling tracks in the snow to a hole in the ice. Leaving the rest of the poplar beside the hole, I felt satisfied after my first shift as the pizza delivery man for Wally Beaver.On the edge of Gold Mine Lake, looking up at an ancient and crumbling hunter's blind precariously perched in the crook of a large tree, I regretted not having more time to settle in for a bit to see if any photographic deer might wander by. Moving back down the frozen creek 30 minutes later, I marvelled at fresh deer tracks on top of my own footprints. They had followed me for about 100 metres and then left the creek, no doubt in search of better terrain for fodder.I spat on the ice and thought of how the spring thaw would mix my DNA with the rich life around me, leaving a tiny piece of myself in this reserve of nature for ever. I saw no wildlife, although they doubtlessly saw me, but returned refreshed by my brief solitary reintegration with mother earth, and a renewed awareness of the importance of saving her from the ravages of unsustainable industrial growth.", "tags": ["Canada", "Canada holidays", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: helping the beaver on Gold Mine Lake"},{"date": "2011-03-22T14:01:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Early one crisp winter morning, I took a walk up to Gold Mine Lake, several kilometres inland from our friends' cottage on the Ottawa river.The frozen creek was only lightly covered with snow, making my snowshoes and ski poles superfluous. Still, it was comforting to have them, as I recalled going through a shallow patch here last winter, in the lee of a beaver dam where moving water thins the ice.I was glad I had decided not to have breakfast. The slight edge of hunger made a walk in the wild more acute, bringing home a greater awareness of the integrity of humans and nature that we rarely experience in the city. It was reassuring, though, to have a small package of trail mix and matches in my pocket in this frozen wonderland.The diversity of life in the boreal forest, even in the winter, never ceases to amaze. Despite their slower pace, the interdependencies of trees, grasses, water, soil and air are obvious to those lucky enough to recognise them. On the long abandoned horse-drawn rail bed leading to the mine, I ran across a poplar sapling severed in two and suspended from the crook of another tree. A beaver had dragged off the bottom and, unable to reach the top half, left it suspended. Hauling it down, I followed the beaver's waddling tracks in the snow to a hole in the ice. Leaving the rest of the poplar beside the hole, I felt satisfied after my first shift as the pizza delivery man for Wally Beaver.On the edge of Gold Mine Lake, looking up at an ancient and crumbling hunter's blind precariously perched in the crook of a large tree, I regretted not having more time to settle in for a bit to see if any photographic deer might wander by. Moving back down the frozen creek 30 minutes later, I marvelled at fresh deer tracks on top of my own footprints. They had followed me for about 100 metres and then left the creek, no doubt in search of better terrain for fodder.I spat on the ice and thought of how the spring thaw would mix my DNA with the rich life around me, leaving a tiny piece of myself in this reserve of nature for ever. I saw no wildlife, although they doubtlessly saw me, but returned refreshed by my brief solitary reintegration with mother earth, and a renewed awareness of the importance of saving her from the ravages of unsustainable industrial growth.", "tags": ["Canada", "Canada holidays", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: helping the beaver on Gold Mine Lake"},{"date": "2011-02-16T17:37:49Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The first official overseas tour by Prince William and Kate Middleton following their marriage will be to Canada at the end of June, Clarence House has announced.As the Queen is Canada's head of state, the prince is also a prince of the country. The couple will spend a week crossing from Quebec and Ottawa to Alberta and the Arctic northwest territories.The itinerary is likely to include the usual set pieces of official banquets, welcoming ceremonies involving guards of honour, and walkabouts.It is thought the couple will take part in Canada Day celebrations in Ottawa on 1 July.A spokesman for St James's Palace said: \"Prince William was pleased to accept an invitation on his and Miss Middleton's behalf from the government of Canada.\"Prince William was keen to be able to visit Canada for himself as an adult, and to be able to show his wife a country that is close to his family's heart.\"William visited the Commonwealth country in 1998 aged 15, touring Vancouver with his father the Prince of Wales and brother Prince Harry.Meanwhile, it is thought that the couple have chosen photographer Hugo Burnand to take their official photographs.Burnand, who previous sitters have included Michael Jackson, Lucian Freud and Lady Thatcher, took the photographs at Prince Charles's wedding to Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall, in 2005.", "tags": ["Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Prince William and Kate Middleton to visit Canada"},{"date": "2011-03-22T14:01:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Early one crisp winter morning, I took a walk up to Gold Mine Lake, several kilometres inland from our friends' cottage on the Ottawa river.The frozen creek was only lightly covered with snow, making my snowshoes and ski poles superfluous. Still, it was comforting to have them, as I recalled going through a shallow patch here last winter, in the lee of a beaver dam where moving water thins the ice.I was glad I had decided not to have breakfast. The slight edge of hunger made a walk in the wild more acute, bringing home a greater awareness of the integrity of humans and nature that we rarely experience in the city. It was reassuring, though, to have a small package of trail mix and matches in my pocket in this frozen wonderland.The diversity of life in the boreal forest, even in the winter, never ceases to amaze. Despite their slower pace, the interdependencies of trees, grasses, water, soil and air are obvious to those lucky enough to recognise them. On the long abandoned horse-drawn rail bed leading to the mine, I ran across a poplar sapling severed in two and suspended from the crook of another tree. A beaver had dragged off the bottom and, unable to reach the top half, left it suspended. Hauling it down, I followed the beaver's waddling tracks in the snow to a hole in the ice. Leaving the rest of the poplar beside the hole, I felt satisfied after my first shift as the pizza delivery man for Wally Beaver.On the edge of Gold Mine Lake, looking up at an ancient and crumbling hunter's blind precariously perched in the crook of a large tree, I regretted not having more time to settle in for a bit to see if any photographic deer might wander by. Moving back down the frozen creek 30 minutes later, I marvelled at fresh deer tracks on top of my own footprints. They had followed me for about 100 metres and then left the creek, no doubt in search of better terrain for fodder.I spat on the ice and thought of how the spring thaw would mix my DNA with the rich life around me, leaving a tiny piece of myself in this reserve of nature for ever. I saw no wildlife, although they doubtlessly saw me, but returned refreshed by my brief solitary reintegration with mother earth, and a renewed awareness of the importance of saving her from the ravages of unsustainable industrial growth.", "tags": ["Canada", "Canada holidays", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: helping the beaver on Gold Mine Lake"},{"date": "2011-02-16T17:37:49Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The first official overseas tour by Prince William and Kate Middleton following their marriage will be to Canada at the end of June, Clarence House has announced.As the Queen is Canada's head of state, the prince is also a prince of the country. The couple will spend a week crossing from Quebec and Ottawa to Alberta and the Arctic northwest territories.The itinerary is likely to include the usual set pieces of official banquets, welcoming ceremonies involving guards of honour, and walkabouts.It is thought the couple will take part in Canada Day celebrations in Ottawa on 1 July.A spokesman for St James's Palace said: \"Prince William was pleased to accept an invitation on his and Miss Middleton's behalf from the government of Canada.\"Prince William was keen to be able to visit Canada for himself as an adult, and to be able to show his wife a country that is close to his family's heart.\"William visited the Commonwealth country in 1998 aged 15, touring Vancouver with his father the Prince of Wales and brother Prince Harry.Meanwhile, it is thought that the couple have chosen photographer Hugo Burnand to take their official photographs.Burnand, who previous sitters have included Michael Jackson, Lucian Freud and Lady Thatcher, took the photographs at Prince Charles's wedding to Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall, in 2005.", "tags": ["Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Prince William and Kate Middleton to visit Canada"},{"date": "2011-01-13T16:50:42Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Chinese animal welfare groups have accused the Canadian government of \"racist bias\" and \"cultural imperialism\" for selling their country seal products that have been banned by the European Union.A coalition of more than 40 organisations fired off the furious tirade after officials from Beijing and Ottawa signed a deal today to open up the world's fastest-growing consumer market to seal oil, hearts and other meat from Canada's annual hunt.Sealers hope the agreement will save a business that has been hit by high-profile opposition from European animal rights groups, who say the hunt is cruel and unnecessary. Amid a growing outcry, the EU \u2013 which formerly accounted for almost a quarter of sales \u2013 voted in 2009 to prohibit imports of seal products.To secure an alternative market, the Canadian government has been lobbying China, which has a rapidly growing economy and a huge population with an increasing appetite for meat and a history of eating wildlife with few qualms.The Canadian fisheries minister, Gail Shea, expressed hope that the industry could grow to a new scale. \"Now that we have access to a new, very large market for edible seal products, hopefully it can become the industry it once was and provide for Canadian coastal families like it did in the past, or even at a greater level than it did in the past,\" she told reporters at a gathering in Beijing.Chinese animal rights activists said Canada's use of their country as a \"dumping ground\" was condescending and undermined their efforts to raise awareness about consumer ethics.\"Seal products have been rejected by the majority of Canadians and people in Europe and North America. It is insulting for Canada to market these products in China,\" said professor Lu Di, director of China Small Animal Protection Association. \"The perception of Canada's sealing industry that the Chinese eat everything and the Chinese people do not care about animal suffering is indicative of the racist and cultural imperialistic attitude towards non-western societies still held by some Canadians.\"The seal hunting business is small \u2013 about $10m (\u00a36.3m) each year \u2013 but politically sensitive, because many of the remaining 6,000 sealers are from Inuit communities, who have traditionally hunted the mammal for a living. Their incomes have collapsed in recent years due to the melting of Arctic ice and diminishing demand. The number of seals harvested has fallen by more than 75% in the last five years, to about 70,000. The price of pelts has also dropped.\"I'm pleased that the Chinese government has seen through the myths and distortions that have been widely disseminated by animal rights extremists in other parts of the world, such as Europe,\" said Mary Simon, president of the Inuit Tapiriit Kanatami organization. \"We want to create a stable and secure future for our seal hunters.\"", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Environment", "Animals", "Business", "Canada", "China", "World news", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Canada 'racist' for selling China seal meat, say Chinese activists"},{"date": "2011-03-22T14:01:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Early one crisp winter morning, I took a walk up to Gold Mine Lake, several kilometres inland from our friends' cottage on the Ottawa river.The frozen creek was only lightly covered with snow, making my snowshoes and ski poles superfluous. Still, it was comforting to have them, as I recalled going through a shallow patch here last winter, in the lee of a beaver dam where moving water thins the ice.I was glad I had decided not to have breakfast. The slight edge of hunger made a walk in the wild more acute, bringing home a greater awareness of the integrity of humans and nature that we rarely experience in the city. It was reassuring, though, to have a small package of trail mix and matches in my pocket in this frozen wonderland.The diversity of life in the boreal forest, even in the winter, never ceases to amaze. Despite their slower pace, the interdependencies of trees, grasses, water, soil and air are obvious to those lucky enough to recognise them. On the long abandoned horse-drawn rail bed leading to the mine, I ran across a poplar sapling severed in two and suspended from the crook of another tree. A beaver had dragged off the bottom and, unable to reach the top half, left it suspended. Hauling it down, I followed the beaver's waddling tracks in the snow to a hole in the ice. Leaving the rest of the poplar beside the hole, I felt satisfied after my first shift as the pizza delivery man for Wally Beaver.On the edge of Gold Mine Lake, looking up at an ancient and crumbling hunter's blind precariously perched in the crook of a large tree, I regretted not having more time to settle in for a bit to see if any photographic deer might wander by. Moving back down the frozen creek 30 minutes later, I marvelled at fresh deer tracks on top of my own footprints. They had followed me for about 100 metres and then left the creek, no doubt in search of better terrain for fodder.I spat on the ice and thought of how the spring thaw would mix my DNA with the rich life around me, leaving a tiny piece of myself in this reserve of nature for ever. I saw no wildlife, although they doubtlessly saw me, but returned refreshed by my brief solitary reintegration with mother earth, and a renewed awareness of the importance of saving her from the ravages of unsustainable industrial growth.", "tags": ["Canada", "Canada holidays", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: helping the beaver on Gold Mine Lake"},{"date": "2011-02-16T17:37:49Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The first official overseas tour by Prince William and Kate Middleton following their marriage will be to Canada at the end of June, Clarence House has announced.As the Queen is Canada's head of state, the prince is also a prince of the country. The couple will spend a week crossing from Quebec and Ottawa to Alberta and the Arctic northwest territories.The itinerary is likely to include the usual set pieces of official banquets, welcoming ceremonies involving guards of honour, and walkabouts.It is thought the couple will take part in Canada Day celebrations in Ottawa on 1 July.A spokesman for St James's Palace said: \"Prince William was pleased to accept an invitation on his and Miss Middleton's behalf from the government of Canada.\"Prince William was keen to be able to visit Canada for himself as an adult, and to be able to show his wife a country that is close to his family's heart.\"William visited the Commonwealth country in 1998 aged 15, touring Vancouver with his father the Prince of Wales and brother Prince Harry.Meanwhile, it is thought that the couple have chosen photographer Hugo Burnand to take their official photographs.Burnand, who previous sitters have included Michael Jackson, Lucian Freud and Lady Thatcher, took the photographs at Prince Charles's wedding to Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall, in 2005.", "tags": ["Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Prince William and Kate Middleton to visit Canada"},{"date": "2011-01-13T16:50:42Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Chinese animal welfare groups have accused the Canadian government of \"racist bias\" and \"cultural imperialism\" for selling their country seal products that have been banned by the European Union.A coalition of more than 40 organisations fired off the furious tirade after officials from Beijing and Ottawa signed a deal today to open up the world's fastest-growing consumer market to seal oil, hearts and other meat from Canada's annual hunt.Sealers hope the agreement will save a business that has been hit by high-profile opposition from European animal rights groups, who say the hunt is cruel and unnecessary. Amid a growing outcry, the EU \u2013 which formerly accounted for almost a quarter of sales \u2013 voted in 2009 to prohibit imports of seal products.To secure an alternative market, the Canadian government has been lobbying China, which has a rapidly growing economy and a huge population with an increasing appetite for meat and a history of eating wildlife with few qualms.The Canadian fisheries minister, Gail Shea, expressed hope that the industry could grow to a new scale. \"Now that we have access to a new, very large market for edible seal products, hopefully it can become the industry it once was and provide for Canadian coastal families like it did in the past, or even at a greater level than it did in the past,\" she told reporters at a gathering in Beijing.Chinese animal rights activists said Canada's use of their country as a \"dumping ground\" was condescending and undermined their efforts to raise awareness about consumer ethics.\"Seal products have been rejected by the majority of Canadians and people in Europe and North America. It is insulting for Canada to market these products in China,\" said professor Lu Di, director of China Small Animal Protection Association. \"The perception of Canada's sealing industry that the Chinese eat everything and the Chinese people do not care about animal suffering is indicative of the racist and cultural imperialistic attitude towards non-western societies still held by some Canadians.\"The seal hunting business is small \u2013 about $10m (\u00a36.3m) each year \u2013 but politically sensitive, because many of the remaining 6,000 sealers are from Inuit communities, who have traditionally hunted the mammal for a living. Their incomes have collapsed in recent years due to the melting of Arctic ice and diminishing demand. The number of seals harvested has fallen by more than 75% in the last five years, to about 70,000. The price of pelts has also dropped.\"I'm pleased that the Chinese government has seen through the myths and distortions that have been widely disseminated by animal rights extremists in other parts of the world, such as Europe,\" said Mary Simon, president of the Inuit Tapiriit Kanatami organization. \"We want to create a stable and secure future for our seal hunters.\"", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Environment", "Animals", "Business", "Canada", "China", "World news", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Canada 'racist' for selling China seal meat, say Chinese activists"},{"date": "2011-02-14T13:12:13Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Jeremy Paxman is renowned for his imperial interviews, so perhaps it is no surprise that BBC1 has chosen the Newsnight presenter to explore the history of the British empire for a major new series.Paxman \u2013 who last week took a pay cut when he signed a new four-year deal with the corporation \u2013 has already started filming the five-part documentary, Empire.The series traces the rise and fall of the British empire \u2013 which, at its peak, was the largest in history. British influence spanned the globe and Paxman will travel to India, Canada, Asia and Africa, finding out how the empire began.Paxman will investigate what the BBC calls \"the complex effects\" the British empire had on the modern world, and traces its influence on sport, finance, social history and technology. He will also explore the effect it had on British people at home.It is not the first time Paxman has fronted historical documentaries for the BBC. His last series for the BBC arts department was The Victorians in 2009, which brought to life the world of Victorian Britain as seen through the paintings of the era's artists.\"Jeremy Paxman is a brilliant and distinguished broadcaster \u2013 who better to weigh up the complexities of the British empire \u2013 its glories, its tragedies, the winners and the losers, its triumph and its curse?\" said the BBC arts commissioning editor, Mark Bell.\"We hope that this series will bring to life the people and the chain of events that made it such a powerful institution, as well as shed new light on its consequences.\"The BBC said the series \"forms part of BBC's commitment to commissioning in-depth arts and culture programmes across a broad range of topics\". Empire will be broadcast on BBC1 this autumn.\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["BBC1", "Jeremy Paxman", "BBC", "Television industry", "Media", "Television", "Television & radio", "UK news"], "title": "Jeremy Paxman to front BBC1 series on British empire"},{"date": "2011-03-22T14:01:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Early one crisp winter morning, I took a walk up to Gold Mine Lake, several kilometres inland from our friends' cottage on the Ottawa river.The frozen creek was only lightly covered with snow, making my snowshoes and ski poles superfluous. Still, it was comforting to have them, as I recalled going through a shallow patch here last winter, in the lee of a beaver dam where moving water thins the ice.I was glad I had decided not to have breakfast. The slight edge of hunger made a walk in the wild more acute, bringing home a greater awareness of the integrity of humans and nature that we rarely experience in the city. It was reassuring, though, to have a small package of trail mix and matches in my pocket in this frozen wonderland.The diversity of life in the boreal forest, even in the winter, never ceases to amaze. Despite their slower pace, the interdependencies of trees, grasses, water, soil and air are obvious to those lucky enough to recognise them. On the long abandoned horse-drawn rail bed leading to the mine, I ran across a poplar sapling severed in two and suspended from the crook of another tree. A beaver had dragged off the bottom and, unable to reach the top half, left it suspended. Hauling it down, I followed the beaver's waddling tracks in the snow to a hole in the ice. Leaving the rest of the poplar beside the hole, I felt satisfied after my first shift as the pizza delivery man for Wally Beaver.On the edge of Gold Mine Lake, looking up at an ancient and crumbling hunter's blind precariously perched in the crook of a large tree, I regretted not having more time to settle in for a bit to see if any photographic deer might wander by. Moving back down the frozen creek 30 minutes later, I marvelled at fresh deer tracks on top of my own footprints. They had followed me for about 100 metres and then left the creek, no doubt in search of better terrain for fodder.I spat on the ice and thought of how the spring thaw would mix my DNA with the rich life around me, leaving a tiny piece of myself in this reserve of nature for ever. I saw no wildlife, although they doubtlessly saw me, but returned refreshed by my brief solitary reintegration with mother earth, and a renewed awareness of the importance of saving her from the ravages of unsustainable industrial growth.", "tags": ["Canada", "Canada holidays", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: helping the beaver on Gold Mine Lake"},{"date": "2011-02-16T17:37:49Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The first official overseas tour by Prince William and Kate Middleton following their marriage will be to Canada at the end of June, Clarence House has announced.As the Queen is Canada's head of state, the prince is also a prince of the country. The couple will spend a week crossing from Quebec and Ottawa to Alberta and the Arctic northwest territories.The itinerary is likely to include the usual set pieces of official banquets, welcoming ceremonies involving guards of honour, and walkabouts.It is thought the couple will take part in Canada Day celebrations in Ottawa on 1 July.A spokesman for St James's Palace said: \"Prince William was pleased to accept an invitation on his and Miss Middleton's behalf from the government of Canada.\"Prince William was keen to be able to visit Canada for himself as an adult, and to be able to show his wife a country that is close to his family's heart.\"William visited the Commonwealth country in 1998 aged 15, touring Vancouver with his father the Prince of Wales and brother Prince Harry.Meanwhile, it is thought that the couple have chosen photographer Hugo Burnand to take their official photographs.Burnand, who previous sitters have included Michael Jackson, Lucian Freud and Lady Thatcher, took the photographs at Prince Charles's wedding to Camilla, the Duchess of Cornwall, in 2005.", "tags": ["Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Prince William and Kate Middleton to visit Canada"},{"date": "2011-01-13T16:50:42Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Chinese animal welfare groups have accused the Canadian government of \"racist bias\" and \"cultural imperialism\" for selling their country seal products that have been banned by the European Union.A coalition of more than 40 organisations fired off the furious tirade after officials from Beijing and Ottawa signed a deal today to open up the world's fastest-growing consumer market to seal oil, hearts and other meat from Canada's annual hunt.Sealers hope the agreement will save a business that has been hit by high-profile opposition from European animal rights groups, who say the hunt is cruel and unnecessary. Amid a growing outcry, the EU \u2013 which formerly accounted for almost a quarter of sales \u2013 voted in 2009 to prohibit imports of seal products.To secure an alternative market, the Canadian government has been lobbying China, which has a rapidly growing economy and a huge population with an increasing appetite for meat and a history of eating wildlife with few qualms.The Canadian fisheries minister, Gail Shea, expressed hope that the industry could grow to a new scale. \"Now that we have access to a new, very large market for edible seal products, hopefully it can become the industry it once was and provide for Canadian coastal families like it did in the past, or even at a greater level than it did in the past,\" she told reporters at a gathering in Beijing.Chinese animal rights activists said Canada's use of their country as a \"dumping ground\" was condescending and undermined their efforts to raise awareness about consumer ethics.\"Seal products have been rejected by the majority of Canadians and people in Europe and North America. It is insulting for Canada to market these products in China,\" said professor Lu Di, director of China Small Animal Protection Association. \"The perception of Canada's sealing industry that the Chinese eat everything and the Chinese people do not care about animal suffering is indicative of the racist and cultural imperialistic attitude towards non-western societies still held by some Canadians.\"The seal hunting business is small \u2013 about $10m (\u00a36.3m) each year \u2013 but politically sensitive, because many of the remaining 6,000 sealers are from Inuit communities, who have traditionally hunted the mammal for a living. Their incomes have collapsed in recent years due to the melting of Arctic ice and diminishing demand. The number of seals harvested has fallen by more than 75% in the last five years, to about 70,000. The price of pelts has also dropped.\"I'm pleased that the Chinese government has seen through the myths and distortions that have been widely disseminated by animal rights extremists in other parts of the world, such as Europe,\" said Mary Simon, president of the Inuit Tapiriit Kanatami organization. \"We want to create a stable and secure future for our seal hunters.\"", "tags": ["Wildlife", "Environment", "Animals", "Business", "Canada", "China", "World news", "Americas", "Asia Pacific"], "title": "Canada 'racist' for selling China seal meat, say Chinese activists"},{"date": "2011-02-14T13:12:13Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Jeremy Paxman is renowned for his imperial interviews, so perhaps it is no surprise that BBC1 has chosen the Newsnight presenter to explore the history of the British empire for a major new series.Paxman \u2013 who last week took a pay cut when he signed a new four-year deal with the corporation \u2013 has already started filming the five-part documentary, Empire.The series traces the rise and fall of the British empire \u2013 which, at its peak, was the largest in history. British influence spanned the globe and Paxman will travel to India, Canada, Asia and Africa, finding out how the empire began.Paxman will investigate what the BBC calls \"the complex effects\" the British empire had on the modern world, and traces its influence on sport, finance, social history and technology. He will also explore the effect it had on British people at home.It is not the first time Paxman has fronted historical documentaries for the BBC. His last series for the BBC arts department was The Victorians in 2009, which brought to life the world of Victorian Britain as seen through the paintings of the era's artists.\"Jeremy Paxman is a brilliant and distinguished broadcaster \u2013 who better to weigh up the complexities of the British empire \u2013 its glories, its tragedies, the winners and the losers, its triumph and its curse?\" said the BBC arts commissioning editor, Mark Bell.\"We hope that this series will bring to life the people and the chain of events that made it such a powerful institution, as well as shed new light on its consequences.\"The BBC said the series \"forms part of BBC's commitment to commissioning in-depth arts and culture programmes across a broad range of topics\". Empire will be broadcast on BBC1 this autumn.\u2022\u00a0To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediatheguardian.com or phone 020 3353 3857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian switchboard on 020 3353 2000.\u2022 If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly \"for publication\".", "tags": ["BBC1", "Jeremy Paxman", "BBC", "Television industry", "Media", "Television", "Television & radio", "UK news"], "title": "Jeremy Paxman to front BBC1 series on British empire"},{"date": "2011-01-25T18:30:54Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Urgent action is needed to safeguard the UK games industry from a brain drain caused by tax breaks being offered in countries such as Canada and the US, says a lobby group.Tiga, which represents games developers and companies, says that the disappointing GDP figures released today indicate the need for action to prevent any further shrinkage of the UK industry, which has seen its headcount fall by 9% since 2008, and its direct and indirect contribution in tax revenues fall by \u00a355m, and the sector's contribution to GDP decline by \u00a3132m.The organisation has repeatedly called for tax breaks to support companies in the UK and encourage investment in the UK, citing schemes offered by Canada and 20 states in the US, where a growing number of businesses are taking advantage of incentives to relocate.A scheme costing the Treasury \u00a3194m would over five years generate \u00a3431m of investment in development expenditure and \u00a3394m in tax receipts, and \"create or safeguard\" more than 9,500 jobs \u2013 including 3,300 in the games industry, according to a revised estimate by the lobbying group.But the communications minister, Ed Vaizey, indicated last December that he would not consider the idea for another four years, having turned it down not long after taking his job.However, the Tiga chief executive, Richard Wilson, said that the gloomy GDP figures for the past quarter indicated that it was more urgent than ever to encourage investment in creative industries. Without tax breaks, there will be a further 24% fall in headcount between 2010 and 2015, meaning an aggregate 30% fall since 2008.\"The latest GDP figures are clearly worrying. The UK government must back industries with the potential to drive the economy forward,\" said Wilson. \"The video games industry is an industry of the future \u2013 high tech, highly skilled and export oriented. If the coalition government is serious about its intention of rebalancing the economy then it should invest in the UK video games industry by introducing a tax break for games production. Games tax relief would create jobs, boost investment and generate much needed tax revenue for the government.\"The global video games market is expected to grow from $52.5bn in 2009 to $86.8bn in 2014. However, this growth will happen overseas if we do not invest today. The UK is exceptionally good at developing video games but we are not competing on a level playing field. Other governments around the world are backing their video games industries. The UK coalition government is not. Of course the government must tackle the deficit, but it must also have a strategy for growth. Tiga's games tax relief will support economic growth and tax revenues. We urge the government to review our evidence and reopen the discussions on games tax relief.\"\"The government should also improve the existing R&D tax credit scheme. TIGA recommends that the existing R&D tax credit for large firms should be retained. Regarding the R&D tax credit for small firms, the categories of qualifying expenditure should be widened, the level of relief raised, the value of the relief for loss-making companies increased, and the claim process simplified.\"Tiga has released its findings in an 85-page document which revises the evidence submitted to the Labour government in 2008, following its call for evidence to support a cultural tax break for games production. The report was written by Tiga, Osborne Clarke and Games Investor Consulting, the independent games research company, which carried out the empirical research, including a census of over 80% of known British games development and publishing companies.The report found that over the past two years, overseas government support for video games development has continued to grow, leaving the UK games industry competing on a highly uneven international playing field.A games tax relief scheme would over five years create a net 1,328 new jobs in the \"games studio\" sector, increasing investment in games studios by \u00a3138m. It would also create 2,427 \"indirect\" jobs in related business, with annual tax revenues rising by \u00a3126m and a GDP contribution of \u00a3307m.The suggested games tax relief would cover any games development businesses falling within the scope of UK corporation tax which develop a game with a budget of at least \u00a3100,000 and which pass a cultural test. The tax relief would be calculated and applied in a similar way to the existing tax relief for British films.", "tags": ["Games", "Technology", "Business", "Culture"], "title": "UK games industry 'hit by brain drain'"},{"date": "2011-04-13T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In 1998 Michael Ignatieff, the Canadian Liberal party leader and former globetrotting academic, said that he voted Labour in Britain's 1997election to oust the Conservatives \u2013 or in his own words, \"to get the rascals out\". It is looking increasingly unlikely that after the 2 May general election in Canada, Ignatieff will be able to repeat the same boast.The Liberal campaign hardly got off to a good start, with Ignatieff's declaration that he wouldn't seek a coalition after the vote implying that the Liberals weren't interested in governing. It is the latest furore over the Liberal leader's voting record, however, that not only has the potential to hand victory to Stephen Harper's Conservatives, but also underlines the social and cultural malaise that has taken hold in the half decade of Harper's leadership.It bears all the hallmarks of an embarrassing, if harmless political gaffe: a poorly briefed Liberal party press officer was caught off-guard by a tabloid reporter's questions on whether Ignatieff, who spent long stints in the UK and the US, had ever voted in another country's elections. On the defensive, the staffer issued a flat denial, at which point the Toronto Sun gleefully printed the above quote, along with another from a 2004 interview with Glasgow's Herald endorsing John Kerry for the US presidency, and records showing Ignatieff was registered to vote in the UK as recently as 2002.The Liberal leader has since set the record straight, but the episode has played directly into his Conservative opponents' hands. The Tories have long since run suggestive ads questioning the depth of Ignatieff's Canadian identity. Helped by press coverage of the latest Liberal pratfall, the mud clings when the Tories tell voters \"he didn't come back for you\". The slur is aimed more at Ignatieff's identity as an upper middle-class urban intellectual rather than his Russian origins. However, this level of jingoism betrays a society ill at ease with its own diversity, where an attack on internationalism and ambition \u2013 after all, that is what Ignatieff is being accused of \u2013 has traction with culturally isolated voters.The current Liberal leader has none of the charisma of his internationalist predecessor, Pierre Trudeau, or the down-home accessibility of his Conservative opponent. Indeed, in the personality stakes, the debonair leader of the nationalist Bloc Quebecois, Gilles Duceppe, eclipses both. So while Ignatieff struggles to shed his image as an aloof academic, the Conservatives merely have to release a steady stream of images of Harper, the \"real\" Canadian, to drive the message home: shaking hands at a Tim Hortons coffee shop in Niagara; or playing a pickup hockey game with local kids in Ottawa. It's working: the latest opinion poll puts the Conservatives 11 points ahead nationally, and 3% up on their 2008 election result. This election marks Harper's best chance of securing the majority government that has eluded him since he became prime minister in 2006Modern Canada seems to be retreating in on itself, clinging to the security of its own cultural stereotypes. The coincidence with Harper's leadership is difficult to escape; George Monbiot wrote powerfully in 2009 that the Conservative environmental policy had seen Canada degenerate into a \"thuggish petro-state\". His only inaccuracy was not seeing just how far that transformation had gone. In 21st- century Canada a Conservative incumbent candidate in Calgary can attack his Liberal opponent as being a \"visitor from Toronto\" simply because she attended university there \u2013 despite the fact they are both of immigrant origin. A Pakistani-born commentator can plough a furrow through the public debate, warning of the danger of radical Islamism in a country with a Muslim community making up just 2% of the total population.This isn't George W Bush's America, this is Canada, today. It seems ludicrous, in a country that has participated in every UN peacekeeping mission in history; one whose last governor general was a Haitian refugee-turned-journalist. There is seemingly no reason for a flight to monolithic cultural values, with Canada weathering the economic storm far better than most developed countries. However, far from being comforted by economic prosperity, in the past decade Canadians have become more afraid of one another, to the extent that even lost boys like Omar Khadr and far-left pin-ups like George Galloway are deemed toxic national threats.As a result Canada now lacks the cultural confidence to meet news of Ignatieff's foreign votes with the only reasonable response: \"what of it?\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Michael Ignatieff", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: a fearfully parochial place | Paris Gourtsoyannis"},{"date": "2011-04-13T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In 1998 Michael Ignatieff, the Canadian Liberal party leader and former globetrotting academic, said that he voted Labour in Britain's 1997election to oust the Conservatives \u2013 or in his own words, \"to get the rascals out\". It is looking increasingly unlikely that after the 2 May general election in Canada, Ignatieff will be able to repeat the same boast.The Liberal campaign hardly got off to a good start, with Ignatieff's declaration that he wouldn't seek a coalition after the vote implying that the Liberals weren't interested in governing. It is the latest furore over the Liberal leader's voting record, however, that not only has the potential to hand victory to Stephen Harper's Conservatives, but also underlines the social and cultural malaise that has taken hold in the half decade of Harper's leadership.It bears all the hallmarks of an embarrassing, if harmless political gaffe: a poorly briefed Liberal party press officer was caught off-guard by a tabloid reporter's questions on whether Ignatieff, who spent long stints in the UK and the US, had ever voted in another country's elections. On the defensive, the staffer issued a flat denial, at which point the Toronto Sun gleefully printed the above quote, along with another from a 2004 interview with Glasgow's Herald endorsing John Kerry for the US presidency, and records showing Ignatieff was registered to vote in the UK as recently as 2002.The Liberal leader has since set the record straight, but the episode has played directly into his Conservative opponents' hands. The Tories have long since run suggestive ads questioning the depth of Ignatieff's Canadian identity. Helped by press coverage of the latest Liberal pratfall, the mud clings when the Tories tell voters \"he didn't come back for you\". The slur is aimed more at Ignatieff's identity as an upper middle-class urban intellectual rather than his Russian origins. However, this level of jingoism betrays a society ill at ease with its own diversity, where an attack on internationalism and ambition \u2013 after all, that is what Ignatieff is being accused of \u2013 has traction with culturally isolated voters.The current Liberal leader has none of the charisma of his internationalist predecessor, Pierre Trudeau, or the down-home accessibility of his Conservative opponent. Indeed, in the personality stakes, the debonair leader of the nationalist Bloc Quebecois, Gilles Duceppe, eclipses both. So while Ignatieff struggles to shed his image as an aloof academic, the Conservatives merely have to release a steady stream of images of Harper, the \"real\" Canadian, to drive the message home: shaking hands at a Tim Hortons coffee shop in Niagara; or playing a pickup hockey game with local kids in Ottawa. It's working: the latest opinion poll puts the Conservatives 11 points ahead nationally, and 3% up on their 2008 election result. This election marks Harper's best chance of securing the majority government that has eluded him since he became prime minister in 2006Modern Canada seems to be retreating in on itself, clinging to the security of its own cultural stereotypes. The coincidence with Harper's leadership is difficult to escape; George Monbiot wrote powerfully in 2009 that the Conservative environmental policy had seen Canada degenerate into a \"thuggish petro-state\". His only inaccuracy was not seeing just how far that transformation had gone. In 21st- century Canada a Conservative incumbent candidate in Calgary can attack his Liberal opponent as being a \"visitor from Toronto\" simply because she attended university there \u2013 despite the fact they are both of immigrant origin. A Pakistani-born commentator can plough a furrow through the public debate, warning of the danger of radical Islamism in a country with a Muslim community making up just 2% of the total population.This isn't George W Bush's America, this is Canada, today. It seems ludicrous, in a country that has participated in every UN peacekeeping mission in history; one whose last governor general was a Haitian refugee-turned-journalist. There is seemingly no reason for a flight to monolithic cultural values, with Canada weathering the economic storm far better than most developed countries. However, far from being comforted by economic prosperity, in the past decade Canadians have become more afraid of one another, to the extent that even lost boys like Omar Khadr and far-left pin-ups like George Galloway are deemed toxic national threats.As a result Canada now lacks the cultural confidence to meet news of Ignatieff's foreign votes with the only reasonable response: \"what of it?\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Michael Ignatieff", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: a fearfully parochial place | Paris Gourtsoyannis"},{"date": "2011-06-30T12:44:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge will arrive in Canada this evening for an eight-day visit, their first official overseas trip since their wedding and a trip that will \"reaffirm the important role\" of the monarchy in Canada, according to organisers.William and Kate land in Ottawa, Ontario, at about 2pm local time and will celebrate Canada Day in the city on Friday \u2013 the day William's mother, Diana, would have turned 50 \u2013 before seeing more of the country.The couple will visit the French-speaking province of Quebec on Saturday before travelling on Tuesday to Yellowknife in the Northwest Territories.Other activities include sitting around a campfire with young people and donning aprons to join a cookout in Quebec City.But it will not be all work. The couple will go canoeing and celebrate Canada Day as they survey their future realm, before jetting off to Los Angeles for further engagements that include participating in a polo match and a dinner.Expectations for the visit are high. An Ipsos poll for the Ottawa Sun said, contradictorily, that while 55% did not know what the fuss was about a further 55% were excited about the visit with 5% planning to go and see the royal couple. If true that would see more than 1 million people line the streets.Even 55% of Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois say they are excited. The support for the royal connection is up 10% on the Queen's visit last year. Canada has just elected the most pro-royalist PM in Stephen Harper for 50 years.Canadian papers have been running special supplements in recent days, including advice on how to address the royal couple. A new flag has also been issued for Prince William, with a large W in the middle of a roundel of maple leaves and sea shells, to be his official standard in Canada, with large crowds expected in Ottawa for the Canada Day celebrations.Republicans are grumbling about the cost of the visit, paid for by the Canadian government an estimated C$1.5m (\u00a3950,000), excluding security \u2013 although that is much less than the $2.5m cost of the Queen's visit.Pro-monarchists are arguing that the visit is a chance to showcase Canada as a tourist destination. Kevin MacLeod, the Queen's Canadian secretary, responsible for organising the visit, said: \"Through the lens of a camera, yes, we'll have the duke and duchess in the foreground but what's in the background? Is it the Rockies? Is it the beaches of Prince Edward Island? It is such a huge, unique opportunity for the world to look in \u2026 at a uniquely Canadian setting.\"There is no doubt the lure of celebrity is paramount, as is the matter of how the new duchess will perform on her first royal overseas tour? Around 1,500 journalists from as far afield as China and India have come for the visit, with 100 from the UK alone.", "tags": ["Prince William", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "UK news", "Monarchy", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "William and Kate visit Canada for canoes, campfires and cookouts"},{"date": "2011-04-13T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In 1998 Michael Ignatieff, the Canadian Liberal party leader and former globetrotting academic, said that he voted Labour in Britain's 1997election to oust the Conservatives \u2013 or in his own words, \"to get the rascals out\". It is looking increasingly unlikely that after the 2 May general election in Canada, Ignatieff will be able to repeat the same boast.The Liberal campaign hardly got off to a good start, with Ignatieff's declaration that he wouldn't seek a coalition after the vote implying that the Liberals weren't interested in governing. It is the latest furore over the Liberal leader's voting record, however, that not only has the potential to hand victory to Stephen Harper's Conservatives, but also underlines the social and cultural malaise that has taken hold in the half decade of Harper's leadership.It bears all the hallmarks of an embarrassing, if harmless political gaffe: a poorly briefed Liberal party press officer was caught off-guard by a tabloid reporter's questions on whether Ignatieff, who spent long stints in the UK and the US, had ever voted in another country's elections. On the defensive, the staffer issued a flat denial, at which point the Toronto Sun gleefully printed the above quote, along with another from a 2004 interview with Glasgow's Herald endorsing John Kerry for the US presidency, and records showing Ignatieff was registered to vote in the UK as recently as 2002.The Liberal leader has since set the record straight, but the episode has played directly into his Conservative opponents' hands. The Tories have long since run suggestive ads questioning the depth of Ignatieff's Canadian identity. Helped by press coverage of the latest Liberal pratfall, the mud clings when the Tories tell voters \"he didn't come back for you\". The slur is aimed more at Ignatieff's identity as an upper middle-class urban intellectual rather than his Russian origins. However, this level of jingoism betrays a society ill at ease with its own diversity, where an attack on internationalism and ambition \u2013 after all, that is what Ignatieff is being accused of \u2013 has traction with culturally isolated voters.The current Liberal leader has none of the charisma of his internationalist predecessor, Pierre Trudeau, or the down-home accessibility of his Conservative opponent. Indeed, in the personality stakes, the debonair leader of the nationalist Bloc Quebecois, Gilles Duceppe, eclipses both. So while Ignatieff struggles to shed his image as an aloof academic, the Conservatives merely have to release a steady stream of images of Harper, the \"real\" Canadian, to drive the message home: shaking hands at a Tim Hortons coffee shop in Niagara; or playing a pickup hockey game with local kids in Ottawa. It's working: the latest opinion poll puts the Conservatives 11 points ahead nationally, and 3% up on their 2008 election result. This election marks Harper's best chance of securing the majority government that has eluded him since he became prime minister in 2006Modern Canada seems to be retreating in on itself, clinging to the security of its own cultural stereotypes. The coincidence with Harper's leadership is difficult to escape; George Monbiot wrote powerfully in 2009 that the Conservative environmental policy had seen Canada degenerate into a \"thuggish petro-state\". His only inaccuracy was not seeing just how far that transformation had gone. In 21st- century Canada a Conservative incumbent candidate in Calgary can attack his Liberal opponent as being a \"visitor from Toronto\" simply because she attended university there \u2013 despite the fact they are both of immigrant origin. A Pakistani-born commentator can plough a furrow through the public debate, warning of the danger of radical Islamism in a country with a Muslim community making up just 2% of the total population.This isn't George W Bush's America, this is Canada, today. It seems ludicrous, in a country that has participated in every UN peacekeeping mission in history; one whose last governor general was a Haitian refugee-turned-journalist. There is seemingly no reason for a flight to monolithic cultural values, with Canada weathering the economic storm far better than most developed countries. However, far from being comforted by economic prosperity, in the past decade Canadians have become more afraid of one another, to the extent that even lost boys like Omar Khadr and far-left pin-ups like George Galloway are deemed toxic national threats.As a result Canada now lacks the cultural confidence to meet news of Ignatieff's foreign votes with the only reasonable response: \"what of it?\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Michael Ignatieff", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: a fearfully parochial place | Paris Gourtsoyannis"},{"date": "2011-06-30T12:44:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge will arrive in Canada this evening for an eight-day visit, their first official overseas trip since their wedding and a trip that will \"reaffirm the important role\" of the monarchy in Canada, according to organisers.William and Kate land in Ottawa, Ontario, at about 2pm local time and will celebrate Canada Day in the city on Friday \u2013 the day William's mother, Diana, would have turned 50 \u2013 before seeing more of the country.The couple will visit the French-speaking province of Quebec on Saturday before travelling on Tuesday to Yellowknife in the Northwest Territories.Other activities include sitting around a campfire with young people and donning aprons to join a cookout in Quebec City.But it will not be all work. The couple will go canoeing and celebrate Canada Day as they survey their future realm, before jetting off to Los Angeles for further engagements that include participating in a polo match and a dinner.Expectations for the visit are high. An Ipsos poll for the Ottawa Sun said, contradictorily, that while 55% did not know what the fuss was about a further 55% were excited about the visit with 5% planning to go and see the royal couple. If true that would see more than 1 million people line the streets.Even 55% of Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois say they are excited. The support for the royal connection is up 10% on the Queen's visit last year. Canada has just elected the most pro-royalist PM in Stephen Harper for 50 years.Canadian papers have been running special supplements in recent days, including advice on how to address the royal couple. A new flag has also been issued for Prince William, with a large W in the middle of a roundel of maple leaves and sea shells, to be his official standard in Canada, with large crowds expected in Ottawa for the Canada Day celebrations.Republicans are grumbling about the cost of the visit, paid for by the Canadian government an estimated C$1.5m (\u00a3950,000), excluding security \u2013 although that is much less than the $2.5m cost of the Queen's visit.Pro-monarchists are arguing that the visit is a chance to showcase Canada as a tourist destination. Kevin MacLeod, the Queen's Canadian secretary, responsible for organising the visit, said: \"Through the lens of a camera, yes, we'll have the duke and duchess in the foreground but what's in the background? Is it the Rockies? Is it the beaches of Prince Edward Island? It is such a huge, unique opportunity for the world to look in \u2026 at a uniquely Canadian setting.\"There is no doubt the lure of celebrity is paramount, as is the matter of how the new duchess will perform on her first royal overseas tour? Around 1,500 journalists from as far afield as China and India have come for the visit, with 100 from the UK alone.", "tags": ["Prince William", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "UK news", "Monarchy", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "William and Kate visit Canada for canoes, campfires and cookouts"},{"date": "2011-06-16T16:06:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In January this year, I was invited by the Ontario Confederation of University Faculty Associations (OCUFA) to address the Worldviews Conference on Media and Higher Education to be held on 16 June 2011 in Toronto. The topic would be \"The responsibility of academics to contribute to public debates in the media.\"I told the organisers then that while I would love to attend, I had been denied entry into Canada twice in the past few years \u2013 once in Calgary, and later at Island Airport \u2013 and that while lawyers on both sides of the border were engaging the issue, we were being met again and again by bureaucratic gibberish and classic rule-by-no-one. The president of OCUFA sent a letter to the Canada Border Services Agency hoping to resolve the matter, and received a boiler-plate response: \"The CBSA is charged to ensure the security and prosperity of Canada by managing access of people and goods.\" I explained that my participation in the conference would jeopardise neither, and promised to spend a lot of money while in town, but I got the same response.I'm in Chicago today, and a video of my talk has been sent to the conference. One irony in this situation is that the injured party in all of this is not me primarily, but the people who, for whatever reason, wanted to engage me in conversation. After all, I will talk to myself all day, and probably disagree and argue with myself as usual. But what of the Canadians who thought it might be useful to have a dialogue? Tough luck: your government is vigilantly watching over your security and prosperity.There's another irony, of course, in the government preventing me from exercising the very responsibility I was invited to address. This is a basic issue of free and open debate and the democratic exchange of ideas \u2013 not one of a potential threat to the nation's security.The technical issue here is that the border guard who turned me back in Calgary said that, according his computer, I had quite a lengthy arrest record. True, I said, arrests from sit-ins, occupations, and antiwar activities 40 years ago, and all misdemeanours. Well, he responded, you have one felony conviction, and that's why you will not get into Canada today.But I don't have any felony convictions. Prove that you don't have any, he said.Years and a lot of lawyer's fees later, I'm still having trouble disproving a negative, if you get the Catch-22 here \u2026 but wait! I just realised that some of those fees are, indeed, contributing to the prosperity of Canada! OK, I'll stay out.I entered Canada a dozen times in the preceding decade \u2013 taking my kids to the Shakespeare or skiing in Banff, attending research conferences, speaking at universities \u2013 and have been to scores of other countries from Cyprus to China, Hong Kong to Beirut, the Netherlands to Chile. But perhaps those countries lack the thorough security sense of Canada.As the public space contracts, the real victim becomes truth, honesty, integrity, curiosity, imagination, freedom itself. When academics fall silent, other victims include the high school history teacher on the west side of Chicago or in central Toronto, the English literature teacher in Detroit, or the maths teacher in a Vancouver middle school. They and countless others immediately get the message: keep quiet with your head down. In Brecht's play Galileo, the great astronomer set forth into a world dominated by a mighty church and an authoritarian power: \"The cities are narrow and so are the brains,\" he declared recklessly. Intoxicated with his own insights, Galileo found himself propelled towards revolution. Not only did his radical discoveries about the movement of the stars free them from the \"crystal vault\" that received truth insistently claimed fastened them to the sky, but his insights suggested something even more dangerous: that we, too, are embarked on a great voyage, that we are free and without the easy support that dogma provides. Here, Galileo raised the stakes and risked taking on the establishment in the realm of its own authority \u2013 and it struck back fiercely.Forced to renounce his life's work under the exquisite pressure of the Inquisition, he denounced what he knew to be true, and was welcomed back into the church and the ranks of the faithful, but exiled from humanity \u2013 by his own word. A former student confronted him in the street then:\"Many on all sides followed you \u2026 believing that you stood, not only for a particular view of the movement of the stars, but even more for the liberty of teaching \u2013 in all fields. Not then for any particular thoughts, but for the right to think at all. Which is in dispute.\"This is surely in play today: the right to talk to whoever you please, the right to read and wonder, the right to pursue an argument into uncharted spaces, the right to challenge the state or the church and its orthodoxy in the public square. The right to think at all.I hold no grudge toward Canada or the Canadian people, and I still hope to return some day to what I always considered the beautiful beacon of freedom and sanity to the north. Well, not as free and sane as I'd imagined, but still \u2026", "tags": ["Canada", "Freedom of speech", "Higher education", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Can Canada really be scared of free-thinking? | William Ayers"},{"date": "2011-04-13T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In 1998 Michael Ignatieff, the Canadian Liberal party leader and former globetrotting academic, said that he voted Labour in Britain's 1997election to oust the Conservatives \u2013 or in his own words, \"to get the rascals out\". It is looking increasingly unlikely that after the 2 May general election in Canada, Ignatieff will be able to repeat the same boast.The Liberal campaign hardly got off to a good start, with Ignatieff's declaration that he wouldn't seek a coalition after the vote implying that the Liberals weren't interested in governing. It is the latest furore over the Liberal leader's voting record, however, that not only has the potential to hand victory to Stephen Harper's Conservatives, but also underlines the social and cultural malaise that has taken hold in the half decade of Harper's leadership.It bears all the hallmarks of an embarrassing, if harmless political gaffe: a poorly briefed Liberal party press officer was caught off-guard by a tabloid reporter's questions on whether Ignatieff, who spent long stints in the UK and the US, had ever voted in another country's elections. On the defensive, the staffer issued a flat denial, at which point the Toronto Sun gleefully printed the above quote, along with another from a 2004 interview with Glasgow's Herald endorsing John Kerry for the US presidency, and records showing Ignatieff was registered to vote in the UK as recently as 2002.The Liberal leader has since set the record straight, but the episode has played directly into his Conservative opponents' hands. The Tories have long since run suggestive ads questioning the depth of Ignatieff's Canadian identity. Helped by press coverage of the latest Liberal pratfall, the mud clings when the Tories tell voters \"he didn't come back for you\". The slur is aimed more at Ignatieff's identity as an upper middle-class urban intellectual rather than his Russian origins. However, this level of jingoism betrays a society ill at ease with its own diversity, where an attack on internationalism and ambition \u2013 after all, that is what Ignatieff is being accused of \u2013 has traction with culturally isolated voters.The current Liberal leader has none of the charisma of his internationalist predecessor, Pierre Trudeau, or the down-home accessibility of his Conservative opponent. Indeed, in the personality stakes, the debonair leader of the nationalist Bloc Quebecois, Gilles Duceppe, eclipses both. So while Ignatieff struggles to shed his image as an aloof academic, the Conservatives merely have to release a steady stream of images of Harper, the \"real\" Canadian, to drive the message home: shaking hands at a Tim Hortons coffee shop in Niagara; or playing a pickup hockey game with local kids in Ottawa. It's working: the latest opinion poll puts the Conservatives 11 points ahead nationally, and 3% up on their 2008 election result. This election marks Harper's best chance of securing the majority government that has eluded him since he became prime minister in 2006Modern Canada seems to be retreating in on itself, clinging to the security of its own cultural stereotypes. The coincidence with Harper's leadership is difficult to escape; George Monbiot wrote powerfully in 2009 that the Conservative environmental policy had seen Canada degenerate into a \"thuggish petro-state\". His only inaccuracy was not seeing just how far that transformation had gone. In 21st- century Canada a Conservative incumbent candidate in Calgary can attack his Liberal opponent as being a \"visitor from Toronto\" simply because she attended university there \u2013 despite the fact they are both of immigrant origin. A Pakistani-born commentator can plough a furrow through the public debate, warning of the danger of radical Islamism in a country with a Muslim community making up just 2% of the total population.This isn't George W Bush's America, this is Canada, today. It seems ludicrous, in a country that has participated in every UN peacekeeping mission in history; one whose last governor general was a Haitian refugee-turned-journalist. There is seemingly no reason for a flight to monolithic cultural values, with Canada weathering the economic storm far better than most developed countries. However, far from being comforted by economic prosperity, in the past decade Canadians have become more afraid of one another, to the extent that even lost boys like Omar Khadr and far-left pin-ups like George Galloway are deemed toxic national threats.As a result Canada now lacks the cultural confidence to meet news of Ignatieff's foreign votes with the only reasonable response: \"what of it?\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Michael Ignatieff", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: a fearfully parochial place | Paris Gourtsoyannis"},{"date": "2011-06-30T12:44:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge will arrive in Canada this evening for an eight-day visit, their first official overseas trip since their wedding and a trip that will \"reaffirm the important role\" of the monarchy in Canada, according to organisers.William and Kate land in Ottawa, Ontario, at about 2pm local time and will celebrate Canada Day in the city on Friday \u2013 the day William's mother, Diana, would have turned 50 \u2013 before seeing more of the country.The couple will visit the French-speaking province of Quebec on Saturday before travelling on Tuesday to Yellowknife in the Northwest Territories.Other activities include sitting around a campfire with young people and donning aprons to join a cookout in Quebec City.But it will not be all work. The couple will go canoeing and celebrate Canada Day as they survey their future realm, before jetting off to Los Angeles for further engagements that include participating in a polo match and a dinner.Expectations for the visit are high. An Ipsos poll for the Ottawa Sun said, contradictorily, that while 55% did not know what the fuss was about a further 55% were excited about the visit with 5% planning to go and see the royal couple. If true that would see more than 1 million people line the streets.Even 55% of Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois say they are excited. The support for the royal connection is up 10% on the Queen's visit last year. Canada has just elected the most pro-royalist PM in Stephen Harper for 50 years.Canadian papers have been running special supplements in recent days, including advice on how to address the royal couple. A new flag has also been issued for Prince William, with a large W in the middle of a roundel of maple leaves and sea shells, to be his official standard in Canada, with large crowds expected in Ottawa for the Canada Day celebrations.Republicans are grumbling about the cost of the visit, paid for by the Canadian government an estimated C$1.5m (\u00a3950,000), excluding security \u2013 although that is much less than the $2.5m cost of the Queen's visit.Pro-monarchists are arguing that the visit is a chance to showcase Canada as a tourist destination. Kevin MacLeod, the Queen's Canadian secretary, responsible for organising the visit, said: \"Through the lens of a camera, yes, we'll have the duke and duchess in the foreground but what's in the background? Is it the Rockies? Is it the beaches of Prince Edward Island? It is such a huge, unique opportunity for the world to look in \u2026 at a uniquely Canadian setting.\"There is no doubt the lure of celebrity is paramount, as is the matter of how the new duchess will perform on her first royal overseas tour? Around 1,500 journalists from as far afield as China and India have come for the visit, with 100 from the UK alone.", "tags": ["Prince William", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "UK news", "Monarchy", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "William and Kate visit Canada for canoes, campfires and cookouts"},{"date": "2011-06-16T16:06:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In January this year, I was invited by the Ontario Confederation of University Faculty Associations (OCUFA) to address the Worldviews Conference on Media and Higher Education to be held on 16 June 2011 in Toronto. The topic would be \"The responsibility of academics to contribute to public debates in the media.\"I told the organisers then that while I would love to attend, I had been denied entry into Canada twice in the past few years \u2013 once in Calgary, and later at Island Airport \u2013 and that while lawyers on both sides of the border were engaging the issue, we were being met again and again by bureaucratic gibberish and classic rule-by-no-one. The president of OCUFA sent a letter to the Canada Border Services Agency hoping to resolve the matter, and received a boiler-plate response: \"The CBSA is charged to ensure the security and prosperity of Canada by managing access of people and goods.\" I explained that my participation in the conference would jeopardise neither, and promised to spend a lot of money while in town, but I got the same response.I'm in Chicago today, and a video of my talk has been sent to the conference. One irony in this situation is that the injured party in all of this is not me primarily, but the people who, for whatever reason, wanted to engage me in conversation. After all, I will talk to myself all day, and probably disagree and argue with myself as usual. But what of the Canadians who thought it might be useful to have a dialogue? Tough luck: your government is vigilantly watching over your security and prosperity.There's another irony, of course, in the government preventing me from exercising the very responsibility I was invited to address. This is a basic issue of free and open debate and the democratic exchange of ideas \u2013 not one of a potential threat to the nation's security.The technical issue here is that the border guard who turned me back in Calgary said that, according his computer, I had quite a lengthy arrest record. True, I said, arrests from sit-ins, occupations, and antiwar activities 40 years ago, and all misdemeanours. Well, he responded, you have one felony conviction, and that's why you will not get into Canada today.But I don't have any felony convictions. Prove that you don't have any, he said.Years and a lot of lawyer's fees later, I'm still having trouble disproving a negative, if you get the Catch-22 here \u2026 but wait! I just realised that some of those fees are, indeed, contributing to the prosperity of Canada! OK, I'll stay out.I entered Canada a dozen times in the preceding decade \u2013 taking my kids to the Shakespeare or skiing in Banff, attending research conferences, speaking at universities \u2013 and have been to scores of other countries from Cyprus to China, Hong Kong to Beirut, the Netherlands to Chile. But perhaps those countries lack the thorough security sense of Canada.As the public space contracts, the real victim becomes truth, honesty, integrity, curiosity, imagination, freedom itself. When academics fall silent, other victims include the high school history teacher on the west side of Chicago or in central Toronto, the English literature teacher in Detroit, or the maths teacher in a Vancouver middle school. They and countless others immediately get the message: keep quiet with your head down. In Brecht's play Galileo, the great astronomer set forth into a world dominated by a mighty church and an authoritarian power: \"The cities are narrow and so are the brains,\" he declared recklessly. Intoxicated with his own insights, Galileo found himself propelled towards revolution. Not only did his radical discoveries about the movement of the stars free them from the \"crystal vault\" that received truth insistently claimed fastened them to the sky, but his insights suggested something even more dangerous: that we, too, are embarked on a great voyage, that we are free and without the easy support that dogma provides. Here, Galileo raised the stakes and risked taking on the establishment in the realm of its own authority \u2013 and it struck back fiercely.Forced to renounce his life's work under the exquisite pressure of the Inquisition, he denounced what he knew to be true, and was welcomed back into the church and the ranks of the faithful, but exiled from humanity \u2013 by his own word. A former student confronted him in the street then:\"Many on all sides followed you \u2026 believing that you stood, not only for a particular view of the movement of the stars, but even more for the liberty of teaching \u2013 in all fields. Not then for any particular thoughts, but for the right to think at all. Which is in dispute.\"This is surely in play today: the right to talk to whoever you please, the right to read and wonder, the right to pursue an argument into uncharted spaces, the right to challenge the state or the church and its orthodoxy in the public square. The right to think at all.I hold no grudge toward Canada or the Canadian people, and I still hope to return some day to what I always considered the beautiful beacon of freedom and sanity to the north. Well, not as free and sane as I'd imagined, but still \u2026", "tags": ["Canada", "Freedom of speech", "Higher education", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Can Canada really be scared of free-thinking? | William Ayers"},{"date": "2011-06-01T08:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Barely a day goes by it seems when someone from Stephen Harper's government is not touting the benefits of the Alberta tar sands. But when it came to counting up the carbon emissions produced by the tar sands - big and growing bigger - a strange amnesia seems to have taken hold.  The Canadian government admitted this week that it deliberately left out data indicating a 20% rise in emissions from the Alberta tar sands when it submitted its annual inventory to the United Nations.  The deliberate exclusion does not amount to an attempt to deceive the UN about Canada's total emissions. Emissions from the tar sands were incorporated in the overall tally in the report. But it does suggest that the government is anxious to obscure the source of its fastest-growing source of climate pollution: the Alberta tar sands.Greenhouse gases from the tar sands grew by 21% in the last year reported, despite the economic receission. Even more troubling, the tar sands is becoming even more carbon intensive, with emissions per barrel of oil rising 14.5% in 2009. And overall production is set to triple by 2020, according to some projections. So that's an increasingly significant share of Canada's greenhouse gas emissions - 6.5% now and rising. \"It is not as if they were left out of the total, but no matter where you looked in the report you couldn't find out what sector the emissions were from,\" said Clare Demerse, director of climate change at the Pembina Institute, an environmental think tank. Environment Canada told reporters it was just fulfilling UNFCC reporting requirements.It's not entirely clear what motivated the decision to obscure the data. The government reported GHG from the tar sands last year. But here are some possibilities:International image. The tar sands are becoming increasingly high profile and are a growing source of embarrassment to Canada in the international arena. No matter how popular the industry in Harper's native Alberta, it is probably not pleasant being called a climate villain or a carbon bully several times a year at Bonn and the other fixtures of the UN climate change negotiations. Timing. The government may have been concerned about jeopardising an important pipeline deal. Canadian firms are awaiting final approval from the State Department for a pipeline that would carry up to barrels of a oil a day from Alberta to the refineries of Texas. Opposition from landowners along the 1,700-mile route has already delayed the project til later this year. Last week, a group of legislators from Nebraska asked Hillary Clinton, who has final say, to delay a decision until 2012 to give them time to put environmental safeguards in place. Members of Congress are said to be preparing a similar protest letter.The PR consultant told them to. Mike De Souza, the same reporter who broke the story on the GHG reporting, has written another story suggesting that the Canadian government last year considered hiring a PR firm to help promote the tar sands. It also weighed the benefits of tar sands tourism: paid-for trips for European journalists and elected officials. \"Consideration should be given to hiring a professional PR firm to help the Pan European Oil Sands Team further develop and implement a serious public advocacy strategy,\" the report was quoted as saying. That's my current favourite theory. The provincial and federal governments have made an enormous effort to lobby US officials on the tar sands. So what's the big deal then in burying a little factoid or two even deeper in a 567-page technical report to a bunch of UN bureaucrats?Except of course that those kind of dodges reek strongly of the faith-based/anti-reality views of the George Bush presidency, when political considerations repeatedly took precedence over evidence-based standards. As environmental groups and others have regularly noted, Harper has been too focused on the tar sands as an image problem, rather than an environmental one. Now it seems as if that approach has infected government institutions, with Environment Canada aiding the effort to obscure irksome figures and facts\"It's a consistent pattern that we have seen on the part of the Harper government to really attempt to spin the tar sands,\" said Andrea Harden-Donahue, energy campaigner at the Council of Canadians, the country's biggest citizens' group.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "United Nations", "Climate change", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Canada tries to hide Alberta tar sands carbon emissions | Suzanne Goldenberg"},{"date": "2011-04-13T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In 1998 Michael Ignatieff, the Canadian Liberal party leader and former globetrotting academic, said that he voted Labour in Britain's 1997election to oust the Conservatives \u2013 or in his own words, \"to get the rascals out\". It is looking increasingly unlikely that after the 2 May general election in Canada, Ignatieff will be able to repeat the same boast.The Liberal campaign hardly got off to a good start, with Ignatieff's declaration that he wouldn't seek a coalition after the vote implying that the Liberals weren't interested in governing. It is the latest furore over the Liberal leader's voting record, however, that not only has the potential to hand victory to Stephen Harper's Conservatives, but also underlines the social and cultural malaise that has taken hold in the half decade of Harper's leadership.It bears all the hallmarks of an embarrassing, if harmless political gaffe: a poorly briefed Liberal party press officer was caught off-guard by a tabloid reporter's questions on whether Ignatieff, who spent long stints in the UK and the US, had ever voted in another country's elections. On the defensive, the staffer issued a flat denial, at which point the Toronto Sun gleefully printed the above quote, along with another from a 2004 interview with Glasgow's Herald endorsing John Kerry for the US presidency, and records showing Ignatieff was registered to vote in the UK as recently as 2002.The Liberal leader has since set the record straight, but the episode has played directly into his Conservative opponents' hands. The Tories have long since run suggestive ads questioning the depth of Ignatieff's Canadian identity. Helped by press coverage of the latest Liberal pratfall, the mud clings when the Tories tell voters \"he didn't come back for you\". The slur is aimed more at Ignatieff's identity as an upper middle-class urban intellectual rather than his Russian origins. However, this level of jingoism betrays a society ill at ease with its own diversity, where an attack on internationalism and ambition \u2013 after all, that is what Ignatieff is being accused of \u2013 has traction with culturally isolated voters.The current Liberal leader has none of the charisma of his internationalist predecessor, Pierre Trudeau, or the down-home accessibility of his Conservative opponent. Indeed, in the personality stakes, the debonair leader of the nationalist Bloc Quebecois, Gilles Duceppe, eclipses both. So while Ignatieff struggles to shed his image as an aloof academic, the Conservatives merely have to release a steady stream of images of Harper, the \"real\" Canadian, to drive the message home: shaking hands at a Tim Hortons coffee shop in Niagara; or playing a pickup hockey game with local kids in Ottawa. It's working: the latest opinion poll puts the Conservatives 11 points ahead nationally, and 3% up on their 2008 election result. This election marks Harper's best chance of securing the majority government that has eluded him since he became prime minister in 2006Modern Canada seems to be retreating in on itself, clinging to the security of its own cultural stereotypes. The coincidence with Harper's leadership is difficult to escape; George Monbiot wrote powerfully in 2009 that the Conservative environmental policy had seen Canada degenerate into a \"thuggish petro-state\". His only inaccuracy was not seeing just how far that transformation had gone. In 21st- century Canada a Conservative incumbent candidate in Calgary can attack his Liberal opponent as being a \"visitor from Toronto\" simply because she attended university there \u2013 despite the fact they are both of immigrant origin. A Pakistani-born commentator can plough a furrow through the public debate, warning of the danger of radical Islamism in a country with a Muslim community making up just 2% of the total population.This isn't George W Bush's America, this is Canada, today. It seems ludicrous, in a country that has participated in every UN peacekeeping mission in history; one whose last governor general was a Haitian refugee-turned-journalist. There is seemingly no reason for a flight to monolithic cultural values, with Canada weathering the economic storm far better than most developed countries. However, far from being comforted by economic prosperity, in the past decade Canadians have become more afraid of one another, to the extent that even lost boys like Omar Khadr and far-left pin-ups like George Galloway are deemed toxic national threats.As a result Canada now lacks the cultural confidence to meet news of Ignatieff's foreign votes with the only reasonable response: \"what of it?\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Michael Ignatieff", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: a fearfully parochial place | Paris Gourtsoyannis"},{"date": "2011-06-30T12:44:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge will arrive in Canada this evening for an eight-day visit, their first official overseas trip since their wedding and a trip that will \"reaffirm the important role\" of the monarchy in Canada, according to organisers.William and Kate land in Ottawa, Ontario, at about 2pm local time and will celebrate Canada Day in the city on Friday \u2013 the day William's mother, Diana, would have turned 50 \u2013 before seeing more of the country.The couple will visit the French-speaking province of Quebec on Saturday before travelling on Tuesday to Yellowknife in the Northwest Territories.Other activities include sitting around a campfire with young people and donning aprons to join a cookout in Quebec City.But it will not be all work. The couple will go canoeing and celebrate Canada Day as they survey their future realm, before jetting off to Los Angeles for further engagements that include participating in a polo match and a dinner.Expectations for the visit are high. An Ipsos poll for the Ottawa Sun said, contradictorily, that while 55% did not know what the fuss was about a further 55% were excited about the visit with 5% planning to go and see the royal couple. If true that would see more than 1 million people line the streets.Even 55% of Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois say they are excited. The support for the royal connection is up 10% on the Queen's visit last year. Canada has just elected the most pro-royalist PM in Stephen Harper for 50 years.Canadian papers have been running special supplements in recent days, including advice on how to address the royal couple. A new flag has also been issued for Prince William, with a large W in the middle of a roundel of maple leaves and sea shells, to be his official standard in Canada, with large crowds expected in Ottawa for the Canada Day celebrations.Republicans are grumbling about the cost of the visit, paid for by the Canadian government an estimated C$1.5m (\u00a3950,000), excluding security \u2013 although that is much less than the $2.5m cost of the Queen's visit.Pro-monarchists are arguing that the visit is a chance to showcase Canada as a tourist destination. Kevin MacLeod, the Queen's Canadian secretary, responsible for organising the visit, said: \"Through the lens of a camera, yes, we'll have the duke and duchess in the foreground but what's in the background? Is it the Rockies? Is it the beaches of Prince Edward Island? It is such a huge, unique opportunity for the world to look in \u2026 at a uniquely Canadian setting.\"There is no doubt the lure of celebrity is paramount, as is the matter of how the new duchess will perform on her first royal overseas tour? Around 1,500 journalists from as far afield as China and India have come for the visit, with 100 from the UK alone.", "tags": ["Prince William", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "UK news", "Monarchy", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "William and Kate visit Canada for canoes, campfires and cookouts"},{"date": "2011-06-16T16:06:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In January this year, I was invited by the Ontario Confederation of University Faculty Associations (OCUFA) to address the Worldviews Conference on Media and Higher Education to be held on 16 June 2011 in Toronto. The topic would be \"The responsibility of academics to contribute to public debates in the media.\"I told the organisers then that while I would love to attend, I had been denied entry into Canada twice in the past few years \u2013 once in Calgary, and later at Island Airport \u2013 and that while lawyers on both sides of the border were engaging the issue, we were being met again and again by bureaucratic gibberish and classic rule-by-no-one. The president of OCUFA sent a letter to the Canada Border Services Agency hoping to resolve the matter, and received a boiler-plate response: \"The CBSA is charged to ensure the security and prosperity of Canada by managing access of people and goods.\" I explained that my participation in the conference would jeopardise neither, and promised to spend a lot of money while in town, but I got the same response.I'm in Chicago today, and a video of my talk has been sent to the conference. One irony in this situation is that the injured party in all of this is not me primarily, but the people who, for whatever reason, wanted to engage me in conversation. After all, I will talk to myself all day, and probably disagree and argue with myself as usual. But what of the Canadians who thought it might be useful to have a dialogue? Tough luck: your government is vigilantly watching over your security and prosperity.There's another irony, of course, in the government preventing me from exercising the very responsibility I was invited to address. This is a basic issue of free and open debate and the democratic exchange of ideas \u2013 not one of a potential threat to the nation's security.The technical issue here is that the border guard who turned me back in Calgary said that, according his computer, I had quite a lengthy arrest record. True, I said, arrests from sit-ins, occupations, and antiwar activities 40 years ago, and all misdemeanours. Well, he responded, you have one felony conviction, and that's why you will not get into Canada today.But I don't have any felony convictions. Prove that you don't have any, he said.Years and a lot of lawyer's fees later, I'm still having trouble disproving a negative, if you get the Catch-22 here \u2026 but wait! I just realised that some of those fees are, indeed, contributing to the prosperity of Canada! OK, I'll stay out.I entered Canada a dozen times in the preceding decade \u2013 taking my kids to the Shakespeare or skiing in Banff, attending research conferences, speaking at universities \u2013 and have been to scores of other countries from Cyprus to China, Hong Kong to Beirut, the Netherlands to Chile. But perhaps those countries lack the thorough security sense of Canada.As the public space contracts, the real victim becomes truth, honesty, integrity, curiosity, imagination, freedom itself. When academics fall silent, other victims include the high school history teacher on the west side of Chicago or in central Toronto, the English literature teacher in Detroit, or the maths teacher in a Vancouver middle school. They and countless others immediately get the message: keep quiet with your head down. In Brecht's play Galileo, the great astronomer set forth into a world dominated by a mighty church and an authoritarian power: \"The cities are narrow and so are the brains,\" he declared recklessly. Intoxicated with his own insights, Galileo found himself propelled towards revolution. Not only did his radical discoveries about the movement of the stars free them from the \"crystal vault\" that received truth insistently claimed fastened them to the sky, but his insights suggested something even more dangerous: that we, too, are embarked on a great voyage, that we are free and without the easy support that dogma provides. Here, Galileo raised the stakes and risked taking on the establishment in the realm of its own authority \u2013 and it struck back fiercely.Forced to renounce his life's work under the exquisite pressure of the Inquisition, he denounced what he knew to be true, and was welcomed back into the church and the ranks of the faithful, but exiled from humanity \u2013 by his own word. A former student confronted him in the street then:\"Many on all sides followed you \u2026 believing that you stood, not only for a particular view of the movement of the stars, but even more for the liberty of teaching \u2013 in all fields. Not then for any particular thoughts, but for the right to think at all. Which is in dispute.\"This is surely in play today: the right to talk to whoever you please, the right to read and wonder, the right to pursue an argument into uncharted spaces, the right to challenge the state or the church and its orthodoxy in the public square. The right to think at all.I hold no grudge toward Canada or the Canadian people, and I still hope to return some day to what I always considered the beautiful beacon of freedom and sanity to the north. Well, not as free and sane as I'd imagined, but still \u2026", "tags": ["Canada", "Freedom of speech", "Higher education", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Can Canada really be scared of free-thinking? | William Ayers"},{"date": "2011-06-01T08:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Barely a day goes by it seems when someone from Stephen Harper's government is not touting the benefits of the Alberta tar sands. But when it came to counting up the carbon emissions produced by the tar sands - big and growing bigger - a strange amnesia seems to have taken hold.  The Canadian government admitted this week that it deliberately left out data indicating a 20% rise in emissions from the Alberta tar sands when it submitted its annual inventory to the United Nations.  The deliberate exclusion does not amount to an attempt to deceive the UN about Canada's total emissions. Emissions from the tar sands were incorporated in the overall tally in the report. But it does suggest that the government is anxious to obscure the source of its fastest-growing source of climate pollution: the Alberta tar sands.Greenhouse gases from the tar sands grew by 21% in the last year reported, despite the economic receission. Even more troubling, the tar sands is becoming even more carbon intensive, with emissions per barrel of oil rising 14.5% in 2009. And overall production is set to triple by 2020, according to some projections. So that's an increasingly significant share of Canada's greenhouse gas emissions - 6.5% now and rising. \"It is not as if they were left out of the total, but no matter where you looked in the report you couldn't find out what sector the emissions were from,\" said Clare Demerse, director of climate change at the Pembina Institute, an environmental think tank. Environment Canada told reporters it was just fulfilling UNFCC reporting requirements.It's not entirely clear what motivated the decision to obscure the data. The government reported GHG from the tar sands last year. But here are some possibilities:International image. The tar sands are becoming increasingly high profile and are a growing source of embarrassment to Canada in the international arena. No matter how popular the industry in Harper's native Alberta, it is probably not pleasant being called a climate villain or a carbon bully several times a year at Bonn and the other fixtures of the UN climate change negotiations. Timing. The government may have been concerned about jeopardising an important pipeline deal. Canadian firms are awaiting final approval from the State Department for a pipeline that would carry up to barrels of a oil a day from Alberta to the refineries of Texas. Opposition from landowners along the 1,700-mile route has already delayed the project til later this year. Last week, a group of legislators from Nebraska asked Hillary Clinton, who has final say, to delay a decision until 2012 to give them time to put environmental safeguards in place. Members of Congress are said to be preparing a similar protest letter.The PR consultant told them to. Mike De Souza, the same reporter who broke the story on the GHG reporting, has written another story suggesting that the Canadian government last year considered hiring a PR firm to help promote the tar sands. It also weighed the benefits of tar sands tourism: paid-for trips for European journalists and elected officials. \"Consideration should be given to hiring a professional PR firm to help the Pan European Oil Sands Team further develop and implement a serious public advocacy strategy,\" the report was quoted as saying. That's my current favourite theory. The provincial and federal governments have made an enormous effort to lobby US officials on the tar sands. So what's the big deal then in burying a little factoid or two even deeper in a 567-page technical report to a bunch of UN bureaucrats?Except of course that those kind of dodges reek strongly of the faith-based/anti-reality views of the George Bush presidency, when political considerations repeatedly took precedence over evidence-based standards. As environmental groups and others have regularly noted, Harper has been too focused on the tar sands as an image problem, rather than an environmental one. Now it seems as if that approach has infected government institutions, with Environment Canada aiding the effort to obscure irksome figures and facts\"It's a consistent pattern that we have seen on the part of the Harper government to really attempt to spin the tar sands,\" said Andrea Harden-Donahue, energy campaigner at the Council of Canadians, the country's biggest citizens' group.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "United Nations", "Climate change", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Canada tries to hide Alberta tar sands carbon emissions | Suzanne Goldenberg"},{"date": "2011-05-03T18:47:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Michael Ignatieff, the man once hailed as the \"bionic liberal\", has stepped down as Canada's Liberal leader after leading the party to its worst ever election defeat.The Liberals came in a distant third in Monday night's elections with 34 seats, giving Stephen Harper's Conservatives, on 167 seats, a majority in the 308-seat House of Commons.The collapse of the Liberals, the traditional party of governance for the 20th century, has redrawn the map of Canadian politics. The leftwing New Democratic party, led by Jack Layton, nearly tripled their strength to 102 seats, emerging for the first time as the official opposition.Voters also elected the first Green party MP, Elizabeth May, in British Columbia, and threw out all but four members of the French-speaking separatist Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois.Ignatieff's humiliation was compounded by the loss of his own seat. On Tuesday morning, the exhausted-looking leader blamed the Liberals' collapse on negative attack ads. Canadians liked him once they got to know him, he told a press conference, but \"there were these negative attack ads that made it very difficult for me to connect with people who weren't in the room,\" he said. \"I had a very large square put around my neck for a number of years.\"But Ignatieff, who became a public figure in the 1990s as the telegenic host of BBC's Late Show before decamping for a job at Harvard as a human rights professor, said he took responsibility for the defeat. \"The only thing Canadians like less than a loser is a sore loser and I go out of politics with my head held high,\" he said.The party will meet next week to choose an interim leader. Ignatieff said he wanted to return to academia, the career he gave up in 2005 to make his first run for office in a suburban Toronto district, though he said he had had no offers as yet.Ignatieff, who was cast by some party grandees as the great hope for an ailing party in search of a charismatic leader, became leader in 2009. But under his leadership, the Liberals were reduced to less than 19% of the popular vote and Harper got his first majority after five years of minority rule.Commentators said Harper now had an historic opportunity to move the centre of Canadian politics further to the right.In the immediate future, the Conservative majority gives Harper a chance to push through an economic agenda of corporate tax breaks and government spending cuts.At a press conference in Calgary on Tuesday, he said the result would bring stability to Canada, which has seen four elections in seven years. He also offered reassurances about an immediate lurch to the right because of pressure from his party's right wing.\"We are intensely aware that we are and we must be the government of all Canadians, including those who did not vote for us,\" Harper said.Layton, whose party won more than 30% of the popular vote, must now fashion a credible opposition force from a large and inexperienced group.The party's biggest wins came from Quebec, where it became the default choice for voters fed up with the Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois.One of the winners from Quebec on Monday night, Ruth Ellen Brosseau, works in a bar in Ottawa, does not speak French, and may not have ever visited her district, Canadian press reported. She also spent part of the campaign on holiday in Las Vegas - but she still took 40% of the vote.Other prominent casualties include the leader of the Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois, Gilles Duceppe, who stood down after his party lost nearly all of its members.The Liberal party collapse claimed other high-profile figures. In Toronto, Ken Dryden, a goalie in the National Hockey League before entering law and politics, lost to a conservative. However, Justin Trudeau, the son of the late prime minister Pierre Trudeau, held on to his seat in Quebec.", "tags": ["Michael Ignatieff", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Michael Ignatieff resigns after Canada poll defeat for Liberal party"},{"date": "2011-04-13T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In 1998 Michael Ignatieff, the Canadian Liberal party leader and former globetrotting academic, said that he voted Labour in Britain's 1997election to oust the Conservatives \u2013 or in his own words, \"to get the rascals out\". It is looking increasingly unlikely that after the 2 May general election in Canada, Ignatieff will be able to repeat the same boast.The Liberal campaign hardly got off to a good start, with Ignatieff's declaration that he wouldn't seek a coalition after the vote implying that the Liberals weren't interested in governing. It is the latest furore over the Liberal leader's voting record, however, that not only has the potential to hand victory to Stephen Harper's Conservatives, but also underlines the social and cultural malaise that has taken hold in the half decade of Harper's leadership.It bears all the hallmarks of an embarrassing, if harmless political gaffe: a poorly briefed Liberal party press officer was caught off-guard by a tabloid reporter's questions on whether Ignatieff, who spent long stints in the UK and the US, had ever voted in another country's elections. On the defensive, the staffer issued a flat denial, at which point the Toronto Sun gleefully printed the above quote, along with another from a 2004 interview with Glasgow's Herald endorsing John Kerry for the US presidency, and records showing Ignatieff was registered to vote in the UK as recently as 2002.The Liberal leader has since set the record straight, but the episode has played directly into his Conservative opponents' hands. The Tories have long since run suggestive ads questioning the depth of Ignatieff's Canadian identity. Helped by press coverage of the latest Liberal pratfall, the mud clings when the Tories tell voters \"he didn't come back for you\". The slur is aimed more at Ignatieff's identity as an upper middle-class urban intellectual rather than his Russian origins. However, this level of jingoism betrays a society ill at ease with its own diversity, where an attack on internationalism and ambition \u2013 after all, that is what Ignatieff is being accused of \u2013 has traction with culturally isolated voters.The current Liberal leader has none of the charisma of his internationalist predecessor, Pierre Trudeau, or the down-home accessibility of his Conservative opponent. Indeed, in the personality stakes, the debonair leader of the nationalist Bloc Quebecois, Gilles Duceppe, eclipses both. So while Ignatieff struggles to shed his image as an aloof academic, the Conservatives merely have to release a steady stream of images of Harper, the \"real\" Canadian, to drive the message home: shaking hands at a Tim Hortons coffee shop in Niagara; or playing a pickup hockey game with local kids in Ottawa. It's working: the latest opinion poll puts the Conservatives 11 points ahead nationally, and 3% up on their 2008 election result. This election marks Harper's best chance of securing the majority government that has eluded him since he became prime minister in 2006Modern Canada seems to be retreating in on itself, clinging to the security of its own cultural stereotypes. The coincidence with Harper's leadership is difficult to escape; George Monbiot wrote powerfully in 2009 that the Conservative environmental policy had seen Canada degenerate into a \"thuggish petro-state\". His only inaccuracy was not seeing just how far that transformation had gone. In 21st- century Canada a Conservative incumbent candidate in Calgary can attack his Liberal opponent as being a \"visitor from Toronto\" simply because she attended university there \u2013 despite the fact they are both of immigrant origin. A Pakistani-born commentator can plough a furrow through the public debate, warning of the danger of radical Islamism in a country with a Muslim community making up just 2% of the total population.This isn't George W Bush's America, this is Canada, today. It seems ludicrous, in a country that has participated in every UN peacekeeping mission in history; one whose last governor general was a Haitian refugee-turned-journalist. There is seemingly no reason for a flight to monolithic cultural values, with Canada weathering the economic storm far better than most developed countries. However, far from being comforted by economic prosperity, in the past decade Canadians have become more afraid of one another, to the extent that even lost boys like Omar Khadr and far-left pin-ups like George Galloway are deemed toxic national threats.As a result Canada now lacks the cultural confidence to meet news of Ignatieff's foreign votes with the only reasonable response: \"what of it?\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Michael Ignatieff", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: a fearfully parochial place | Paris Gourtsoyannis"},{"date": "2011-06-30T12:44:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge will arrive in Canada this evening for an eight-day visit, their first official overseas trip since their wedding and a trip that will \"reaffirm the important role\" of the monarchy in Canada, according to organisers.William and Kate land in Ottawa, Ontario, at about 2pm local time and will celebrate Canada Day in the city on Friday \u2013 the day William's mother, Diana, would have turned 50 \u2013 before seeing more of the country.The couple will visit the French-speaking province of Quebec on Saturday before travelling on Tuesday to Yellowknife in the Northwest Territories.Other activities include sitting around a campfire with young people and donning aprons to join a cookout in Quebec City.But it will not be all work. The couple will go canoeing and celebrate Canada Day as they survey their future realm, before jetting off to Los Angeles for further engagements that include participating in a polo match and a dinner.Expectations for the visit are high. An Ipsos poll for the Ottawa Sun said, contradictorily, that while 55% did not know what the fuss was about a further 55% were excited about the visit with 5% planning to go and see the royal couple. If true that would see more than 1 million people line the streets.Even 55% of Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois say they are excited. The support for the royal connection is up 10% on the Queen's visit last year. Canada has just elected the most pro-royalist PM in Stephen Harper for 50 years.Canadian papers have been running special supplements in recent days, including advice on how to address the royal couple. A new flag has also been issued for Prince William, with a large W in the middle of a roundel of maple leaves and sea shells, to be his official standard in Canada, with large crowds expected in Ottawa for the Canada Day celebrations.Republicans are grumbling about the cost of the visit, paid for by the Canadian government an estimated C$1.5m (\u00a3950,000), excluding security \u2013 although that is much less than the $2.5m cost of the Queen's visit.Pro-monarchists are arguing that the visit is a chance to showcase Canada as a tourist destination. Kevin MacLeod, the Queen's Canadian secretary, responsible for organising the visit, said: \"Through the lens of a camera, yes, we'll have the duke and duchess in the foreground but what's in the background? Is it the Rockies? Is it the beaches of Prince Edward Island? It is such a huge, unique opportunity for the world to look in \u2026 at a uniquely Canadian setting.\"There is no doubt the lure of celebrity is paramount, as is the matter of how the new duchess will perform on her first royal overseas tour? Around 1,500 journalists from as far afield as China and India have come for the visit, with 100 from the UK alone.", "tags": ["Prince William", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "UK news", "Monarchy", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "William and Kate visit Canada for canoes, campfires and cookouts"},{"date": "2011-06-16T16:06:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In January this year, I was invited by the Ontario Confederation of University Faculty Associations (OCUFA) to address the Worldviews Conference on Media and Higher Education to be held on 16 June 2011 in Toronto. The topic would be \"The responsibility of academics to contribute to public debates in the media.\"I told the organisers then that while I would love to attend, I had been denied entry into Canada twice in the past few years \u2013 once in Calgary, and later at Island Airport \u2013 and that while lawyers on both sides of the border were engaging the issue, we were being met again and again by bureaucratic gibberish and classic rule-by-no-one. The president of OCUFA sent a letter to the Canada Border Services Agency hoping to resolve the matter, and received a boiler-plate response: \"The CBSA is charged to ensure the security and prosperity of Canada by managing access of people and goods.\" I explained that my participation in the conference would jeopardise neither, and promised to spend a lot of money while in town, but I got the same response.I'm in Chicago today, and a video of my talk has been sent to the conference. One irony in this situation is that the injured party in all of this is not me primarily, but the people who, for whatever reason, wanted to engage me in conversation. After all, I will talk to myself all day, and probably disagree and argue with myself as usual. But what of the Canadians who thought it might be useful to have a dialogue? Tough luck: your government is vigilantly watching over your security and prosperity.There's another irony, of course, in the government preventing me from exercising the very responsibility I was invited to address. This is a basic issue of free and open debate and the democratic exchange of ideas \u2013 not one of a potential threat to the nation's security.The technical issue here is that the border guard who turned me back in Calgary said that, according his computer, I had quite a lengthy arrest record. True, I said, arrests from sit-ins, occupations, and antiwar activities 40 years ago, and all misdemeanours. Well, he responded, you have one felony conviction, and that's why you will not get into Canada today.But I don't have any felony convictions. Prove that you don't have any, he said.Years and a lot of lawyer's fees later, I'm still having trouble disproving a negative, if you get the Catch-22 here \u2026 but wait! I just realised that some of those fees are, indeed, contributing to the prosperity of Canada! OK, I'll stay out.I entered Canada a dozen times in the preceding decade \u2013 taking my kids to the Shakespeare or skiing in Banff, attending research conferences, speaking at universities \u2013 and have been to scores of other countries from Cyprus to China, Hong Kong to Beirut, the Netherlands to Chile. But perhaps those countries lack the thorough security sense of Canada.As the public space contracts, the real victim becomes truth, honesty, integrity, curiosity, imagination, freedom itself. When academics fall silent, other victims include the high school history teacher on the west side of Chicago or in central Toronto, the English literature teacher in Detroit, or the maths teacher in a Vancouver middle school. They and countless others immediately get the message: keep quiet with your head down. In Brecht's play Galileo, the great astronomer set forth into a world dominated by a mighty church and an authoritarian power: \"The cities are narrow and so are the brains,\" he declared recklessly. Intoxicated with his own insights, Galileo found himself propelled towards revolution. Not only did his radical discoveries about the movement of the stars free them from the \"crystal vault\" that received truth insistently claimed fastened them to the sky, but his insights suggested something even more dangerous: that we, too, are embarked on a great voyage, that we are free and without the easy support that dogma provides. Here, Galileo raised the stakes and risked taking on the establishment in the realm of its own authority \u2013 and it struck back fiercely.Forced to renounce his life's work under the exquisite pressure of the Inquisition, he denounced what he knew to be true, and was welcomed back into the church and the ranks of the faithful, but exiled from humanity \u2013 by his own word. A former student confronted him in the street then:\"Many on all sides followed you \u2026 believing that you stood, not only for a particular view of the movement of the stars, but even more for the liberty of teaching \u2013 in all fields. Not then for any particular thoughts, but for the right to think at all. Which is in dispute.\"This is surely in play today: the right to talk to whoever you please, the right to read and wonder, the right to pursue an argument into uncharted spaces, the right to challenge the state or the church and its orthodoxy in the public square. The right to think at all.I hold no grudge toward Canada or the Canadian people, and I still hope to return some day to what I always considered the beautiful beacon of freedom and sanity to the north. Well, not as free and sane as I'd imagined, but still \u2026", "tags": ["Canada", "Freedom of speech", "Higher education", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Can Canada really be scared of free-thinking? | William Ayers"},{"date": "2011-06-01T08:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Barely a day goes by it seems when someone from Stephen Harper's government is not touting the benefits of the Alberta tar sands. But when it came to counting up the carbon emissions produced by the tar sands - big and growing bigger - a strange amnesia seems to have taken hold.  The Canadian government admitted this week that it deliberately left out data indicating a 20% rise in emissions from the Alberta tar sands when it submitted its annual inventory to the United Nations.  The deliberate exclusion does not amount to an attempt to deceive the UN about Canada's total emissions. Emissions from the tar sands were incorporated in the overall tally in the report. But it does suggest that the government is anxious to obscure the source of its fastest-growing source of climate pollution: the Alberta tar sands.Greenhouse gases from the tar sands grew by 21% in the last year reported, despite the economic receission. Even more troubling, the tar sands is becoming even more carbon intensive, with emissions per barrel of oil rising 14.5% in 2009. And overall production is set to triple by 2020, according to some projections. So that's an increasingly significant share of Canada's greenhouse gas emissions - 6.5% now and rising. \"It is not as if they were left out of the total, but no matter where you looked in the report you couldn't find out what sector the emissions were from,\" said Clare Demerse, director of climate change at the Pembina Institute, an environmental think tank. Environment Canada told reporters it was just fulfilling UNFCC reporting requirements.It's not entirely clear what motivated the decision to obscure the data. The government reported GHG from the tar sands last year. But here are some possibilities:International image. The tar sands are becoming increasingly high profile and are a growing source of embarrassment to Canada in the international arena. No matter how popular the industry in Harper's native Alberta, it is probably not pleasant being called a climate villain or a carbon bully several times a year at Bonn and the other fixtures of the UN climate change negotiations. Timing. The government may have been concerned about jeopardising an important pipeline deal. Canadian firms are awaiting final approval from the State Department for a pipeline that would carry up to barrels of a oil a day from Alberta to the refineries of Texas. Opposition from landowners along the 1,700-mile route has already delayed the project til later this year. Last week, a group of legislators from Nebraska asked Hillary Clinton, who has final say, to delay a decision until 2012 to give them time to put environmental safeguards in place. Members of Congress are said to be preparing a similar protest letter.The PR consultant told them to. Mike De Souza, the same reporter who broke the story on the GHG reporting, has written another story suggesting that the Canadian government last year considered hiring a PR firm to help promote the tar sands. It also weighed the benefits of tar sands tourism: paid-for trips for European journalists and elected officials. \"Consideration should be given to hiring a professional PR firm to help the Pan European Oil Sands Team further develop and implement a serious public advocacy strategy,\" the report was quoted as saying. That's my current favourite theory. The provincial and federal governments have made an enormous effort to lobby US officials on the tar sands. So what's the big deal then in burying a little factoid or two even deeper in a 567-page technical report to a bunch of UN bureaucrats?Except of course that those kind of dodges reek strongly of the faith-based/anti-reality views of the George Bush presidency, when political considerations repeatedly took precedence over evidence-based standards. As environmental groups and others have regularly noted, Harper has been too focused on the tar sands as an image problem, rather than an environmental one. Now it seems as if that approach has infected government institutions, with Environment Canada aiding the effort to obscure irksome figures and facts\"It's a consistent pattern that we have seen on the part of the Harper government to really attempt to spin the tar sands,\" said Andrea Harden-Donahue, energy campaigner at the Council of Canadians, the country's biggest citizens' group.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "United Nations", "Climate change", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Canada tries to hide Alberta tar sands carbon emissions | Suzanne Goldenberg"},{"date": "2011-05-03T18:47:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Michael Ignatieff, the man once hailed as the \"bionic liberal\", has stepped down as Canada's Liberal leader after leading the party to its worst ever election defeat.The Liberals came in a distant third in Monday night's elections with 34 seats, giving Stephen Harper's Conservatives, on 167 seats, a majority in the 308-seat House of Commons.The collapse of the Liberals, the traditional party of governance for the 20th century, has redrawn the map of Canadian politics. The leftwing New Democratic party, led by Jack Layton, nearly tripled their strength to 102 seats, emerging for the first time as the official opposition.Voters also elected the first Green party MP, Elizabeth May, in British Columbia, and threw out all but four members of the French-speaking separatist Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois.Ignatieff's humiliation was compounded by the loss of his own seat. On Tuesday morning, the exhausted-looking leader blamed the Liberals' collapse on negative attack ads. Canadians liked him once they got to know him, he told a press conference, but \"there were these negative attack ads that made it very difficult for me to connect with people who weren't in the room,\" he said. \"I had a very large square put around my neck for a number of years.\"But Ignatieff, who became a public figure in the 1990s as the telegenic host of BBC's Late Show before decamping for a job at Harvard as a human rights professor, said he took responsibility for the defeat. \"The only thing Canadians like less than a loser is a sore loser and I go out of politics with my head held high,\" he said.The party will meet next week to choose an interim leader. Ignatieff said he wanted to return to academia, the career he gave up in 2005 to make his first run for office in a suburban Toronto district, though he said he had had no offers as yet.Ignatieff, who was cast by some party grandees as the great hope for an ailing party in search of a charismatic leader, became leader in 2009. But under his leadership, the Liberals were reduced to less than 19% of the popular vote and Harper got his first majority after five years of minority rule.Commentators said Harper now had an historic opportunity to move the centre of Canadian politics further to the right.In the immediate future, the Conservative majority gives Harper a chance to push through an economic agenda of corporate tax breaks and government spending cuts.At a press conference in Calgary on Tuesday, he said the result would bring stability to Canada, which has seen four elections in seven years. He also offered reassurances about an immediate lurch to the right because of pressure from his party's right wing.\"We are intensely aware that we are and we must be the government of all Canadians, including those who did not vote for us,\" Harper said.Layton, whose party won more than 30% of the popular vote, must now fashion a credible opposition force from a large and inexperienced group.The party's biggest wins came from Quebec, where it became the default choice for voters fed up with the Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois.One of the winners from Quebec on Monday night, Ruth Ellen Brosseau, works in a bar in Ottawa, does not speak French, and may not have ever visited her district, Canadian press reported. She also spent part of the campaign on holiday in Las Vegas - but she still took 40% of the vote.Other prominent casualties include the leader of the Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois, Gilles Duceppe, who stood down after his party lost nearly all of its members.The Liberal party collapse claimed other high-profile figures. In Toronto, Ken Dryden, a goalie in the National Hockey League before entering law and politics, lost to a conservative. However, Justin Trudeau, the son of the late prime minister Pierre Trudeau, held on to his seat in Quebec.", "tags": ["Michael Ignatieff", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Michael Ignatieff resigns after Canada poll defeat for Liberal party"},{"date": "2011-05-03T17:13:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "An American-born environmental lawyer, Elizabeth May, has been elected as Canada's first Green MP.May, 56, and the leader of Canada's Green party, was elected on Monday night from a seaside community in British Columbia in an upset that unseated Conservative cabinet minister Gary Lunn.Her win \u2013 in her third run as a Green candidate from three different provinces \u2013 gives the party its highest national profile yet in Canadian politics. Though a national leader, she was excluded from the televised election debates due to the lack of a parliamentary seat.\"Today we proved that Canadians want change in politics,\" she told a victory rally. \"No one gave me very good chances of taking a seat from a cabinet minister when this began, but the enthusiasm of voters across this riding has just been spectacular.\"May takes her seat in parliament under the first conservative majority government in years, and will struggle to exert influence on such combustible issues as climate change and development of the Alberta tar sands.However, asked by the national broadcaster CBC what she could do as a lone MP, May said: \"I don't even want to quote [former Canadian prime minister] Pierre Trudeau, but, 'Just watch me.'\"She said her first priority would be to raise the tone in parliament by campaigning against heckling during Question Period (Canada's version of prime minister's Questions).The Green win was the result of a strategic shift by the party away from building broad-based national support to getting a foothold in parliament. After two failed runs in her home province of Nova Scotia and in Ontario, May moved to British Columbia in the summer of 2009 to focus full-time on her campaign.While other national leaders fanned out across the country, she stayed close to home, campaigning in her Toyota Prius and mobilising an army of youthful volunteers to win over a conservative and elderly constituency.The decision cost the Greens overall, with their share of the popular vote nationally falling to 4% on Monday night from 7% in earlier elections. It could also have left the Greens with nothing, had May failed to win the seat.May, though born in Connecticut, was raised in Nova Scotia. Financial hardship forced her to drop out of college, but she was later admitted to do a law degree after receiving a recommendation from Bill Clinton. She began her career as an activist, campaigning against the use of aerial insecticides, before making her first run for office in 1980 for the Small Party at the age of 25.She was elected the leader of the Green party five years ago on a promise to make the party a national force.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Climate change", "Environment", "Green politics", "Politics", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada elects Elizabeth May as first Green MP"},{"date": "2011-04-13T18:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In 1998 Michael Ignatieff, the Canadian Liberal party leader and former globetrotting academic, said that he voted Labour in Britain's 1997election to oust the Conservatives \u2013 or in his own words, \"to get the rascals out\". It is looking increasingly unlikely that after the 2 May general election in Canada, Ignatieff will be able to repeat the same boast.The Liberal campaign hardly got off to a good start, with Ignatieff's declaration that he wouldn't seek a coalition after the vote implying that the Liberals weren't interested in governing. It is the latest furore over the Liberal leader's voting record, however, that not only has the potential to hand victory to Stephen Harper's Conservatives, but also underlines the social and cultural malaise that has taken hold in the half decade of Harper's leadership.It bears all the hallmarks of an embarrassing, if harmless political gaffe: a poorly briefed Liberal party press officer was caught off-guard by a tabloid reporter's questions on whether Ignatieff, who spent long stints in the UK and the US, had ever voted in another country's elections. On the defensive, the staffer issued a flat denial, at which point the Toronto Sun gleefully printed the above quote, along with another from a 2004 interview with Glasgow's Herald endorsing John Kerry for the US presidency, and records showing Ignatieff was registered to vote in the UK as recently as 2002.The Liberal leader has since set the record straight, but the episode has played directly into his Conservative opponents' hands. The Tories have long since run suggestive ads questioning the depth of Ignatieff's Canadian identity. Helped by press coverage of the latest Liberal pratfall, the mud clings when the Tories tell voters \"he didn't come back for you\". The slur is aimed more at Ignatieff's identity as an upper middle-class urban intellectual rather than his Russian origins. However, this level of jingoism betrays a society ill at ease with its own diversity, where an attack on internationalism and ambition \u2013 after all, that is what Ignatieff is being accused of \u2013 has traction with culturally isolated voters.The current Liberal leader has none of the charisma of his internationalist predecessor, Pierre Trudeau, or the down-home accessibility of his Conservative opponent. Indeed, in the personality stakes, the debonair leader of the nationalist Bloc Quebecois, Gilles Duceppe, eclipses both. So while Ignatieff struggles to shed his image as an aloof academic, the Conservatives merely have to release a steady stream of images of Harper, the \"real\" Canadian, to drive the message home: shaking hands at a Tim Hortons coffee shop in Niagara; or playing a pickup hockey game with local kids in Ottawa. It's working: the latest opinion poll puts the Conservatives 11 points ahead nationally, and 3% up on their 2008 election result. This election marks Harper's best chance of securing the majority government that has eluded him since he became prime minister in 2006Modern Canada seems to be retreating in on itself, clinging to the security of its own cultural stereotypes. The coincidence with Harper's leadership is difficult to escape; George Monbiot wrote powerfully in 2009 that the Conservative environmental policy had seen Canada degenerate into a \"thuggish petro-state\". His only inaccuracy was not seeing just how far that transformation had gone. In 21st- century Canada a Conservative incumbent candidate in Calgary can attack his Liberal opponent as being a \"visitor from Toronto\" simply because she attended university there \u2013 despite the fact they are both of immigrant origin. A Pakistani-born commentator can plough a furrow through the public debate, warning of the danger of radical Islamism in a country with a Muslim community making up just 2% of the total population.This isn't George W Bush's America, this is Canada, today. It seems ludicrous, in a country that has participated in every UN peacekeeping mission in history; one whose last governor general was a Haitian refugee-turned-journalist. There is seemingly no reason for a flight to monolithic cultural values, with Canada weathering the economic storm far better than most developed countries. However, far from being comforted by economic prosperity, in the past decade Canadians have become more afraid of one another, to the extent that even lost boys like Omar Khadr and far-left pin-ups like George Galloway are deemed toxic national threats.As a result Canada now lacks the cultural confidence to meet news of Ignatieff's foreign votes with the only reasonable response: \"what of it?\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Michael Ignatieff", "Stephen Harper", "Americas"], "title": "Canada: a fearfully parochial place | Paris Gourtsoyannis"},{"date": "2011-06-30T12:44:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Duke and Duchess of Cambridge will arrive in Canada this evening for an eight-day visit, their first official overseas trip since their wedding and a trip that will \"reaffirm the important role\" of the monarchy in Canada, according to organisers.William and Kate land in Ottawa, Ontario, at about 2pm local time and will celebrate Canada Day in the city on Friday \u2013 the day William's mother, Diana, would have turned 50 \u2013 before seeing more of the country.The couple will visit the French-speaking province of Quebec on Saturday before travelling on Tuesday to Yellowknife in the Northwest Territories.Other activities include sitting around a campfire with young people and donning aprons to join a cookout in Quebec City.But it will not be all work. The couple will go canoeing and celebrate Canada Day as they survey their future realm, before jetting off to Los Angeles for further engagements that include participating in a polo match and a dinner.Expectations for the visit are high. An Ipsos poll for the Ottawa Sun said, contradictorily, that while 55% did not know what the fuss was about a further 55% were excited about the visit with 5% planning to go and see the royal couple. If true that would see more than 1 million people line the streets.Even 55% of Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois say they are excited. The support for the royal connection is up 10% on the Queen's visit last year. Canada has just elected the most pro-royalist PM in Stephen Harper for 50 years.Canadian papers have been running special supplements in recent days, including advice on how to address the royal couple. A new flag has also been issued for Prince William, with a large W in the middle of a roundel of maple leaves and sea shells, to be his official standard in Canada, with large crowds expected in Ottawa for the Canada Day celebrations.Republicans are grumbling about the cost of the visit, paid for by the Canadian government an estimated C$1.5m (\u00a3950,000), excluding security \u2013 although that is much less than the $2.5m cost of the Queen's visit.Pro-monarchists are arguing that the visit is a chance to showcase Canada as a tourist destination. Kevin MacLeod, the Queen's Canadian secretary, responsible for organising the visit, said: \"Through the lens of a camera, yes, we'll have the duke and duchess in the foreground but what's in the background? Is it the Rockies? Is it the beaches of Prince Edward Island? It is such a huge, unique opportunity for the world to look in \u2026 at a uniquely Canadian setting.\"There is no doubt the lure of celebrity is paramount, as is the matter of how the new duchess will perform on her first royal overseas tour? Around 1,500 journalists from as far afield as China and India have come for the visit, with 100 from the UK alone.", "tags": ["Prince William", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "UK news", "Monarchy", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "William and Kate visit Canada for canoes, campfires and cookouts"},{"date": "2011-06-16T16:06:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In January this year, I was invited by the Ontario Confederation of University Faculty Associations (OCUFA) to address the Worldviews Conference on Media and Higher Education to be held on 16 June 2011 in Toronto. The topic would be \"The responsibility of academics to contribute to public debates in the media.\"I told the organisers then that while I would love to attend, I had been denied entry into Canada twice in the past few years \u2013 once in Calgary, and later at Island Airport \u2013 and that while lawyers on both sides of the border were engaging the issue, we were being met again and again by bureaucratic gibberish and classic rule-by-no-one. The president of OCUFA sent a letter to the Canada Border Services Agency hoping to resolve the matter, and received a boiler-plate response: \"The CBSA is charged to ensure the security and prosperity of Canada by managing access of people and goods.\" I explained that my participation in the conference would jeopardise neither, and promised to spend a lot of money while in town, but I got the same response.I'm in Chicago today, and a video of my talk has been sent to the conference. One irony in this situation is that the injured party in all of this is not me primarily, but the people who, for whatever reason, wanted to engage me in conversation. After all, I will talk to myself all day, and probably disagree and argue with myself as usual. But what of the Canadians who thought it might be useful to have a dialogue? Tough luck: your government is vigilantly watching over your security and prosperity.There's another irony, of course, in the government preventing me from exercising the very responsibility I was invited to address. This is a basic issue of free and open debate and the democratic exchange of ideas \u2013 not one of a potential threat to the nation's security.The technical issue here is that the border guard who turned me back in Calgary said that, according his computer, I had quite a lengthy arrest record. True, I said, arrests from sit-ins, occupations, and antiwar activities 40 years ago, and all misdemeanours. Well, he responded, you have one felony conviction, and that's why you will not get into Canada today.But I don't have any felony convictions. Prove that you don't have any, he said.Years and a lot of lawyer's fees later, I'm still having trouble disproving a negative, if you get the Catch-22 here \u2026 but wait! I just realised that some of those fees are, indeed, contributing to the prosperity of Canada! OK, I'll stay out.I entered Canada a dozen times in the preceding decade \u2013 taking my kids to the Shakespeare or skiing in Banff, attending research conferences, speaking at universities \u2013 and have been to scores of other countries from Cyprus to China, Hong Kong to Beirut, the Netherlands to Chile. But perhaps those countries lack the thorough security sense of Canada.As the public space contracts, the real victim becomes truth, honesty, integrity, curiosity, imagination, freedom itself. When academics fall silent, other victims include the high school history teacher on the west side of Chicago or in central Toronto, the English literature teacher in Detroit, or the maths teacher in a Vancouver middle school. They and countless others immediately get the message: keep quiet with your head down. In Brecht's play Galileo, the great astronomer set forth into a world dominated by a mighty church and an authoritarian power: \"The cities are narrow and so are the brains,\" he declared recklessly. Intoxicated with his own insights, Galileo found himself propelled towards revolution. Not only did his radical discoveries about the movement of the stars free them from the \"crystal vault\" that received truth insistently claimed fastened them to the sky, but his insights suggested something even more dangerous: that we, too, are embarked on a great voyage, that we are free and without the easy support that dogma provides. Here, Galileo raised the stakes and risked taking on the establishment in the realm of its own authority \u2013 and it struck back fiercely.Forced to renounce his life's work under the exquisite pressure of the Inquisition, he denounced what he knew to be true, and was welcomed back into the church and the ranks of the faithful, but exiled from humanity \u2013 by his own word. A former student confronted him in the street then:\"Many on all sides followed you \u2026 believing that you stood, not only for a particular view of the movement of the stars, but even more for the liberty of teaching \u2013 in all fields. Not then for any particular thoughts, but for the right to think at all. Which is in dispute.\"This is surely in play today: the right to talk to whoever you please, the right to read and wonder, the right to pursue an argument into uncharted spaces, the right to challenge the state or the church and its orthodoxy in the public square. The right to think at all.I hold no grudge toward Canada or the Canadian people, and I still hope to return some day to what I always considered the beautiful beacon of freedom and sanity to the north. Well, not as free and sane as I'd imagined, but still \u2026", "tags": ["Canada", "Freedom of speech", "Higher education", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Can Canada really be scared of free-thinking? | William Ayers"},{"date": "2011-06-01T08:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Barely a day goes by it seems when someone from Stephen Harper's government is not touting the benefits of the Alberta tar sands. But when it came to counting up the carbon emissions produced by the tar sands - big and growing bigger - a strange amnesia seems to have taken hold.  The Canadian government admitted this week that it deliberately left out data indicating a 20% rise in emissions from the Alberta tar sands when it submitted its annual inventory to the United Nations.  The deliberate exclusion does not amount to an attempt to deceive the UN about Canada's total emissions. Emissions from the tar sands were incorporated in the overall tally in the report. But it does suggest that the government is anxious to obscure the source of its fastest-growing source of climate pollution: the Alberta tar sands.Greenhouse gases from the tar sands grew by 21% in the last year reported, despite the economic receission. Even more troubling, the tar sands is becoming even more carbon intensive, with emissions per barrel of oil rising 14.5% in 2009. And overall production is set to triple by 2020, according to some projections. So that's an increasingly significant share of Canada's greenhouse gas emissions - 6.5% now and rising. \"It is not as if they were left out of the total, but no matter where you looked in the report you couldn't find out what sector the emissions were from,\" said Clare Demerse, director of climate change at the Pembina Institute, an environmental think tank. Environment Canada told reporters it was just fulfilling UNFCC reporting requirements.It's not entirely clear what motivated the decision to obscure the data. The government reported GHG from the tar sands last year. But here are some possibilities:International image. The tar sands are becoming increasingly high profile and are a growing source of embarrassment to Canada in the international arena. No matter how popular the industry in Harper's native Alberta, it is probably not pleasant being called a climate villain or a carbon bully several times a year at Bonn and the other fixtures of the UN climate change negotiations. Timing. The government may have been concerned about jeopardising an important pipeline deal. Canadian firms are awaiting final approval from the State Department for a pipeline that would carry up to barrels of a oil a day from Alberta to the refineries of Texas. Opposition from landowners along the 1,700-mile route has already delayed the project til later this year. Last week, a group of legislators from Nebraska asked Hillary Clinton, who has final say, to delay a decision until 2012 to give them time to put environmental safeguards in place. Members of Congress are said to be preparing a similar protest letter.The PR consultant told them to. Mike De Souza, the same reporter who broke the story on the GHG reporting, has written another story suggesting that the Canadian government last year considered hiring a PR firm to help promote the tar sands. It also weighed the benefits of tar sands tourism: paid-for trips for European journalists and elected officials. \"Consideration should be given to hiring a professional PR firm to help the Pan European Oil Sands Team further develop and implement a serious public advocacy strategy,\" the report was quoted as saying. That's my current favourite theory. The provincial and federal governments have made an enormous effort to lobby US officials on the tar sands. So what's the big deal then in burying a little factoid or two even deeper in a 567-page technical report to a bunch of UN bureaucrats?Except of course that those kind of dodges reek strongly of the faith-based/anti-reality views of the George Bush presidency, when political considerations repeatedly took precedence over evidence-based standards. As environmental groups and others have regularly noted, Harper has been too focused on the tar sands as an image problem, rather than an environmental one. Now it seems as if that approach has infected government institutions, with Environment Canada aiding the effort to obscure irksome figures and facts\"It's a consistent pattern that we have seen on the part of the Harper government to really attempt to spin the tar sands,\" said Andrea Harden-Donahue, energy campaigner at the Council of Canadians, the country's biggest citizens' group.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "United Nations", "Climate change", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Canada tries to hide Alberta tar sands carbon emissions | Suzanne Goldenberg"},{"date": "2011-05-03T18:47:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Michael Ignatieff, the man once hailed as the \"bionic liberal\", has stepped down as Canada's Liberal leader after leading the party to its worst ever election defeat.The Liberals came in a distant third in Monday night's elections with 34 seats, giving Stephen Harper's Conservatives, on 167 seats, a majority in the 308-seat House of Commons.The collapse of the Liberals, the traditional party of governance for the 20th century, has redrawn the map of Canadian politics. The leftwing New Democratic party, led by Jack Layton, nearly tripled their strength to 102 seats, emerging for the first time as the official opposition.Voters also elected the first Green party MP, Elizabeth May, in British Columbia, and threw out all but four members of the French-speaking separatist Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois.Ignatieff's humiliation was compounded by the loss of his own seat. On Tuesday morning, the exhausted-looking leader blamed the Liberals' collapse on negative attack ads. Canadians liked him once they got to know him, he told a press conference, but \"there were these negative attack ads that made it very difficult for me to connect with people who weren't in the room,\" he said. \"I had a very large square put around my neck for a number of years.\"But Ignatieff, who became a public figure in the 1990s as the telegenic host of BBC's Late Show before decamping for a job at Harvard as a human rights professor, said he took responsibility for the defeat. \"The only thing Canadians like less than a loser is a sore loser and I go out of politics with my head held high,\" he said.The party will meet next week to choose an interim leader. Ignatieff said he wanted to return to academia, the career he gave up in 2005 to make his first run for office in a suburban Toronto district, though he said he had had no offers as yet.Ignatieff, who was cast by some party grandees as the great hope for an ailing party in search of a charismatic leader, became leader in 2009. But under his leadership, the Liberals were reduced to less than 19% of the popular vote and Harper got his first majority after five years of minority rule.Commentators said Harper now had an historic opportunity to move the centre of Canadian politics further to the right.In the immediate future, the Conservative majority gives Harper a chance to push through an economic agenda of corporate tax breaks and government spending cuts.At a press conference in Calgary on Tuesday, he said the result would bring stability to Canada, which has seen four elections in seven years. He also offered reassurances about an immediate lurch to the right because of pressure from his party's right wing.\"We are intensely aware that we are and we must be the government of all Canadians, including those who did not vote for us,\" Harper said.Layton, whose party won more than 30% of the popular vote, must now fashion a credible opposition force from a large and inexperienced group.The party's biggest wins came from Quebec, where it became the default choice for voters fed up with the Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois.One of the winners from Quebec on Monday night, Ruth Ellen Brosseau, works in a bar in Ottawa, does not speak French, and may not have ever visited her district, Canadian press reported. She also spent part of the campaign on holiday in Las Vegas - but she still took 40% of the vote.Other prominent casualties include the leader of the Bloc Qu\u00e9b\u00e9cois, Gilles Duceppe, who stood down after his party lost nearly all of its members.The Liberal party collapse claimed other high-profile figures. In Toronto, Ken Dryden, a goalie in the National Hockey League before entering law and politics, lost to a conservative. However, Justin Trudeau, the son of the late prime minister Pierre Trudeau, held on to his seat in Quebec.", "tags": ["Michael Ignatieff", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Michael Ignatieff resigns after Canada poll defeat for Liberal party"},{"date": "2011-05-03T17:13:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "An American-born environmental lawyer, Elizabeth May, has been elected as Canada's first Green MP.May, 56, and the leader of Canada's Green party, was elected on Monday night from a seaside community in British Columbia in an upset that unseated Conservative cabinet minister Gary Lunn.Her win \u2013 in her third run as a Green candidate from three different provinces \u2013 gives the party its highest national profile yet in Canadian politics. Though a national leader, she was excluded from the televised election debates due to the lack of a parliamentary seat.\"Today we proved that Canadians want change in politics,\" she told a victory rally. \"No one gave me very good chances of taking a seat from a cabinet minister when this began, but the enthusiasm of voters across this riding has just been spectacular.\"May takes her seat in parliament under the first conservative majority government in years, and will struggle to exert influence on such combustible issues as climate change and development of the Alberta tar sands.However, asked by the national broadcaster CBC what she could do as a lone MP, May said: \"I don't even want to quote [former Canadian prime minister] Pierre Trudeau, but, 'Just watch me.'\"She said her first priority would be to raise the tone in parliament by campaigning against heckling during Question Period (Canada's version of prime minister's Questions).The Green win was the result of a strategic shift by the party away from building broad-based national support to getting a foothold in parliament. After two failed runs in her home province of Nova Scotia and in Ontario, May moved to British Columbia in the summer of 2009 to focus full-time on her campaign.While other national leaders fanned out across the country, she stayed close to home, campaigning in her Toyota Prius and mobilising an army of youthful volunteers to win over a conservative and elderly constituency.The decision cost the Greens overall, with their share of the popular vote nationally falling to 4% on Monday night from 7% in earlier elections. It could also have left the Greens with nothing, had May failed to win the seat.May, though born in Connecticut, was raised in Nova Scotia. Financial hardship forced her to drop out of college, but she was later admitted to do a law degree after receiving a recommendation from Bill Clinton. She began her career as an activist, campaigning against the use of aerial insecticides, before making her first run for office in 1980 for the Small Party at the age of 25.She was elected the leader of the Green party five years ago on a promise to make the party a national force.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Climate change", "Environment", "Green politics", "Politics", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada elects Elizabeth May as first Green MP"},{"date": "2011-05-04T23:04:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Labour tribalists, who John Kampfner describes (Comment, 3 May) as preparing to gloat at the defeat of AV, should look at the result of Canada's election (Comment, 4 May) and reconsider their position even now. With just 39% of the vote, Stephen Harper's Conservatives scooped 54% of the seats in the Ottawa House of Commons, because the left-liberal vote split between the New Democratic Party winning 31% and the Liberals winning 19%. It's reasonable to believe AV would have denied Harper a majority. Turnout, though slightly improved, at 61% would still shame most mature democracies. It is probably no coincidence that it is equally low in the UK and the US, which continue to use first past the post. Canadians, like Britons in 1983, 1987 and 1992, are saddled with a Conservative government a clear-cut majority of the electorate voted against.Tom BrownLondon \u2022 Yesterday I received some leaflets from my MP (Conservative Claire Perry) asking me to vote No to AV: it is \"complex, obscure and unfair\", and \"the government will have to spend millions of pounds explaining to voters\" how it works. In a separate envelope from her, I am asked to rank each of two lists of national and local concerns \"from 1-5 in order of importance\". Judging whether schools are more important than jobs, or the NHS more than the police, may be matters beyond the mind of a humble voter such as me, but Ms Perry has apparently already decided I lack such comparative skills and would presumably ignore me if I was to reply. Parliamentarians who patronise the electorate undermine democracy. What better reason to vote Yes?Mike PittsMarlborough, Wiltshire \u2022 Nick Clegg has repeated the Yes campaign's claim that only the Conservatives and BNP oppose AV. Here in Northern Ireland, the Democratic Unionist party, the Greens, and Ulster Unionist party all back a No vote. AV would be a tremendous step backward for Westminster. It's not a fair election system and would rig the electoral system against smaller parties. AV is an obscure, expensive and unwanted system.Tom Elliott Leader, UUP, Brian Wilson MLA Leader, Northern Ireland Green party, Peter Robinson MLA First minister of Northern Ireland\u2022 I was one of those Labour members who was undecided. Then I got a leaflet urging me to \"Vote Conservative and No to AV\". Now I've made my decision.Allan BuckleyGreystoke, Cumbria\u2022 Support in your columns for a Yes vote is very impressive. However, I fear the only endorsements that would make a difference at this stage would be William and Kate's.Anthony GarrettFalkland, Fife ", "tags": ["Alternative vote", "Electoral reform", "Politics", "Canada", "Northern Ireland", "UK news", "Labour", "Conservatives", "Nick Clegg", "Ulster Unionist Party (UUP)", "Democratic Unionist party (DUP)", "AV referendum", "Americas"], "title": "Letters: Lessons from Canada and Northern Ireland for AV voters"},{"date": "2011-08-22T20:34:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It came as a surprise to many when New Democrat leader Jack Layton announced in July that he would be stepping down from his post to recover from cancer. It was only weeks since his NDP had galvanised Quebec \u2013 and much of Canada \u2013 to leap from fourth party status to the official opposition, providing a fascinating finish to what had, at first, appeared as merely an election of process. Layton promised he would return to the House in September, but as Canadians woke to learn Monday, that won't happen; Layton passed away, leaving behind a grieving nation and a rattled party.The spring election in Canada will forever be the story of the rise of the NDP, (the \"orange crush\", as it was termed, with reference to the party colours) and the party's fulfilment of its promise of a commitment to proposing a \"new vision of federalism, with progressive and social-democratic values\" shared with Quebecers. Out of the 103 seats, it grabbed on 2 May, 59 of them came from Quebec. This, despite selecting many unknown, inexperienced candidates \u2013 one of whom famously took a vacation to Las Vegas during the campaign, and four of whom were still university students.That success was due entirely to Layton. The NDP's failure to achieve a breakthrough despite consistently gaining seats in each of the last decade's frequent elections, finally changed this spring. Against a backdrop of increasingly cynical Conservative and Liberal narratives, the NDP, by and large, refused to go negative. Layton's positive populism was further punctuated by his own personal triumph over an earlier bout of prostate cancer and his recovery from a recent hip operation.His damn-the-torpedoes approach had many wondering early on whether the campaign trail would take its toll. It appeared to do the opposite. The cane he carried to ease his sore hip soon became a symbol for the party itself: consistently battered, but gradually overcoming its failings.And after an early summer filibuster over the government's back-to-work legislation for locked-out Canada Post employees, the NDP were looking to regroup, hire the necessary staffers for such a rapidly expanding party, and settle in for four years' work. Which meant that it came as a shock when Layton appeared before cameras in July, gaunt and hoarse, to announce that he was yet again suffering from cancer.It was a different sort of shock when he simultaneously recommended that rookie MP and former public service union head Nycole Turmel as his interim replacement. It didn't help that only days after Turmel was approved by the party's national council as the interim leader, it emerged that she had been a card-carrying member of the separatist Bloc Quebecois up until January of this year \u2013 only months before she ran as a star NDP candidate in Quebec.Turmel is an unknown. A poll released last week showed that 42% of Canadians have no opinion of her. Those ambiguous feelings highlight a problem inherent in the NDP's characterisation of itself as Layton's party \u2013 one that may only be exacerbated with his passing.The NDP faces a tough fall. When the House sits again in September, Turmel will inevitably lead off \"question period\", and serve as the primary spokeswoman for a party that will no longer be sitting in a bizarre, expectant stasis resting on the assumption that Layton will return, but instead, rollicking toward a leadership race and a by-election in Layton's Toronto-Danforth riding.There are a number of high-profile possible alternatives for party leader. It was for that reason Layton appointed an MP with no long-term leadership goals \u2013 the party will need a figurehead, not a babysitter. No doubt, out of solidarity, the party will move forward cohesively in the short term, but eventually, the questions will come. Who will \u2013 who can \u2013 take Layton's place? What will new voters, driven to the polls by Layton's dogged determination, make of the new alternative? And how well will Turmel perform against an experienced and often fierce government message machine?Before he passed away, Layton penned a letter to Canadians (pdf). In it, he recommended that the NDP hold a leadership race sooner rather than later, perhaps in the New Year. As it did when Layton recommended Turmel, the party will no doubt heed his advice. However, in getting to that point, the NDP will be tested yet again.The fall was always shaping up to be an interesting one for the NDP, but even after Layton's announcement, there was the hope that it would not be such a sad one. The reaction to Layton's death Monday was universally one of grief. It is hard to argue that Canada is not a poorer place without his booming voice of righteousness echoing in through the halls of Parliament.To his last day, Layton encompassed in his personal style everything he wished his party to be: principled; unfailing in character; consistent in the dedication to progressive values; and forever a fighter. In his letter, he again reminded Canadians that a bright future is possible.\"Canada is a great country, one of the hopes of the world. We can be a better one \u2013 a country of greater equality, justice, and opportunity \u2026 Don't let them tell you it can't be done.\"And after thanking and encouraging his caucus, party members, Quebecers and Canada's youth, he signed off:\"My friends, love is better than anger. Hope is better than fear. Optimism is better than despair. So let us be loving, hopeful and optimistic. And we'll change the world.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Jack Layton's legacy to Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-08-22T20:34:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It came as a surprise to many when New Democrat leader Jack Layton announced in July that he would be stepping down from his post to recover from cancer. It was only weeks since his NDP had galvanised Quebec \u2013 and much of Canada \u2013 to leap from fourth party status to the official opposition, providing a fascinating finish to what had, at first, appeared as merely an election of process. Layton promised he would return to the House in September, but as Canadians woke to learn Monday, that won't happen; Layton passed away, leaving behind a grieving nation and a rattled party.The spring election in Canada will forever be the story of the rise of the NDP, (the \"orange crush\", as it was termed, with reference to the party colours) and the party's fulfilment of its promise of a commitment to proposing a \"new vision of federalism, with progressive and social-democratic values\" shared with Quebecers. Out of the 103 seats, it grabbed on 2 May, 59 of them came from Quebec. This, despite selecting many unknown, inexperienced candidates \u2013 one of whom famously took a vacation to Las Vegas during the campaign, and four of whom were still university students.That success was due entirely to Layton. The NDP's failure to achieve a breakthrough despite consistently gaining seats in each of the last decade's frequent elections, finally changed this spring. Against a backdrop of increasingly cynical Conservative and Liberal narratives, the NDP, by and large, refused to go negative. Layton's positive populism was further punctuated by his own personal triumph over an earlier bout of prostate cancer and his recovery from a recent hip operation.His damn-the-torpedoes approach had many wondering early on whether the campaign trail would take its toll. It appeared to do the opposite. The cane he carried to ease his sore hip soon became a symbol for the party itself: consistently battered, but gradually overcoming its failings.And after an early summer filibuster over the government's back-to-work legislation for locked-out Canada Post employees, the NDP were looking to regroup, hire the necessary staffers for such a rapidly expanding party, and settle in for four years' work. Which meant that it came as a shock when Layton appeared before cameras in July, gaunt and hoarse, to announce that he was yet again suffering from cancer.It was a different sort of shock when he simultaneously recommended that rookie MP and former public service union head Nycole Turmel as his interim replacement. It didn't help that only days after Turmel was approved by the party's national council as the interim leader, it emerged that she had been a card-carrying member of the separatist Bloc Quebecois up until January of this year \u2013 only months before she ran as a star NDP candidate in Quebec.Turmel is an unknown. A poll released last week showed that 42% of Canadians have no opinion of her. Those ambiguous feelings highlight a problem inherent in the NDP's characterisation of itself as Layton's party \u2013 one that may only be exacerbated with his passing.The NDP faces a tough fall. When the House sits again in September, Turmel will inevitably lead off \"question period\", and serve as the primary spokeswoman for a party that will no longer be sitting in a bizarre, expectant stasis resting on the assumption that Layton will return, but instead, rollicking toward a leadership race and a by-election in Layton's Toronto-Danforth riding.There are a number of high-profile possible alternatives for party leader. It was for that reason Layton appointed an MP with no long-term leadership goals \u2013 the party will need a figurehead, not a babysitter. No doubt, out of solidarity, the party will move forward cohesively in the short term, but eventually, the questions will come. Who will \u2013 who can \u2013 take Layton's place? What will new voters, driven to the polls by Layton's dogged determination, make of the new alternative? And how well will Turmel perform against an experienced and often fierce government message machine?Before he passed away, Layton penned a letter to Canadians (pdf). In it, he recommended that the NDP hold a leadership race sooner rather than later, perhaps in the New Year. As it did when Layton recommended Turmel, the party will no doubt heed his advice. However, in getting to that point, the NDP will be tested yet again.The fall was always shaping up to be an interesting one for the NDP, but even after Layton's announcement, there was the hope that it would not be such a sad one. The reaction to Layton's death Monday was universally one of grief. It is hard to argue that Canada is not a poorer place without his booming voice of righteousness echoing in through the halls of Parliament.To his last day, Layton encompassed in his personal style everything he wished his party to be: principled; unfailing in character; consistent in the dedication to progressive values; and forever a fighter. In his letter, he again reminded Canadians that a bright future is possible.\"Canada is a great country, one of the hopes of the world. We can be a better one \u2013 a country of greater equality, justice, and opportunity \u2026 Don't let them tell you it can't be done.\"And after thanking and encouraging his caucus, party members, Quebecers and Canada's youth, he signed off:\"My friends, love is better than anger. Hope is better than fear. Optimism is better than despair. So let us be loving, hopeful and optimistic. And we'll change the world.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Jack Layton's legacy to Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-09-24T12:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Over the last decade, there have been a number of surface-level parallels between Canadian and British politics. First, each country replaced a long-standing prime minister with his former finance minister. Then, when each of those in turn gradually drowned under a cascade of leftover grievances and his own failure to unite a divided party, both Canada and Britain turned to their respective opposition Conservatives \u2013 but even then, only just.In 2011, after five years of minority rule, Stephen Harper finally guided his Conservative party into majority territory, opposed and balanced in the House by a party that was once a political afterthought, pushed to prominence by a leader nobody took seriously only weeks before election day. Almost exactly a year earlier, in 2010, a similar narrative played out in Britain, ending with David Cameron's Conservative coalition government.Despite all of that, the realities facing each country when Cameron and Harper were respectively elected were very different \u2013 and remain so. On the one hand, the UK was, and still is, staring at the business end of an economic nightmare in the eurozone, to which so many of its decisions, like those of foreign policy, are weighted. It is also still recovering from the 2008 banking system implosion, suffering high unemployment and grappling with its own faltering economy. On the other hand, as Cameron highlighted in his speech to Canadian Parliament in Ottawa Thursday night, no Canadian bank has yet \"failed or faltered\" during the recession. Canada's economic relationship with the EU is currently focused on an upcoming free trade agreement, and it is determining the best way to handle a resource-rich export economy. On foreign policy, it looks not to Europe, but to the US.Even the two leaders seem to differ in their relationship to conservatism and politics: Harper, the wonkish tactician, bred into western Reformist ideology, and an active politician at a young age, versus Cameron, a former PR brain for a TV company, bred into the ethos of noblesse oblige at Eton.\u00a0Yet, as Cameron spoke to a packed House of Commons, similarities seemed to outweigh differences. Cameron hit home ideas that have become familiar tropes for the Harper Conservatives: the threat of the global economic crisis to the success of Canadian private enterprise; the dangers of Islamist extremism, dampened by Canada's role in Nato missions in Afghanistan and Libya; and the fear of potential government overspending, solved only by continued austerity and deficit reduction.\u00a0It was so much like a Harper speech, that despite the marked differences between the realities of each nation's relationship to various continued global crises, one could have been forgiven for mistaking the two leaders Thursday.In his rhetoric, Cameron sounded as if he'd been dipped in a Harper Prime Ministerial gloss and set on a shelf; or marked as the updated operating software of the ideology that finally, after endless processing, spat out a majority government this spring: a sort of Harper 2.0. He appeared just like all other \"modernised\" politicians, running on an iTunes approach to public policy \u2013 immediately detecting a blip of interest in themes and automatically offering up similar options you might also enjoy \u2013 only this time, smoother, younger, about an inch taller, wearing a pale blue tie, and flying in on a transatlantic commercial red-eye to Terminal 3 at Heathrow.Britons might take note.", "tags": ["David Cameron", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "David Cameron finds right alignment in Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-08-22T20:34:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It came as a surprise to many when New Democrat leader Jack Layton announced in July that he would be stepping down from his post to recover from cancer. It was only weeks since his NDP had galvanised Quebec \u2013 and much of Canada \u2013 to leap from fourth party status to the official opposition, providing a fascinating finish to what had, at first, appeared as merely an election of process. Layton promised he would return to the House in September, but as Canadians woke to learn Monday, that won't happen; Layton passed away, leaving behind a grieving nation and a rattled party.The spring election in Canada will forever be the story of the rise of the NDP, (the \"orange crush\", as it was termed, with reference to the party colours) and the party's fulfilment of its promise of a commitment to proposing a \"new vision of federalism, with progressive and social-democratic values\" shared with Quebecers. Out of the 103 seats, it grabbed on 2 May, 59 of them came from Quebec. This, despite selecting many unknown, inexperienced candidates \u2013 one of whom famously took a vacation to Las Vegas during the campaign, and four of whom were still university students.That success was due entirely to Layton. The NDP's failure to achieve a breakthrough despite consistently gaining seats in each of the last decade's frequent elections, finally changed this spring. Against a backdrop of increasingly cynical Conservative and Liberal narratives, the NDP, by and large, refused to go negative. Layton's positive populism was further punctuated by his own personal triumph over an earlier bout of prostate cancer and his recovery from a recent hip operation.His damn-the-torpedoes approach had many wondering early on whether the campaign trail would take its toll. It appeared to do the opposite. The cane he carried to ease his sore hip soon became a symbol for the party itself: consistently battered, but gradually overcoming its failings.And after an early summer filibuster over the government's back-to-work legislation for locked-out Canada Post employees, the NDP were looking to regroup, hire the necessary staffers for such a rapidly expanding party, and settle in for four years' work. Which meant that it came as a shock when Layton appeared before cameras in July, gaunt and hoarse, to announce that he was yet again suffering from cancer.It was a different sort of shock when he simultaneously recommended that rookie MP and former public service union head Nycole Turmel as his interim replacement. It didn't help that only days after Turmel was approved by the party's national council as the interim leader, it emerged that she had been a card-carrying member of the separatist Bloc Quebecois up until January of this year \u2013 only months before she ran as a star NDP candidate in Quebec.Turmel is an unknown. A poll released last week showed that 42% of Canadians have no opinion of her. Those ambiguous feelings highlight a problem inherent in the NDP's characterisation of itself as Layton's party \u2013 one that may only be exacerbated with his passing.The NDP faces a tough fall. When the House sits again in September, Turmel will inevitably lead off \"question period\", and serve as the primary spokeswoman for a party that will no longer be sitting in a bizarre, expectant stasis resting on the assumption that Layton will return, but instead, rollicking toward a leadership race and a by-election in Layton's Toronto-Danforth riding.There are a number of high-profile possible alternatives for party leader. It was for that reason Layton appointed an MP with no long-term leadership goals \u2013 the party will need a figurehead, not a babysitter. No doubt, out of solidarity, the party will move forward cohesively in the short term, but eventually, the questions will come. Who will \u2013 who can \u2013 take Layton's place? What will new voters, driven to the polls by Layton's dogged determination, make of the new alternative? And how well will Turmel perform against an experienced and often fierce government message machine?Before he passed away, Layton penned a letter to Canadians (pdf). In it, he recommended that the NDP hold a leadership race sooner rather than later, perhaps in the New Year. As it did when Layton recommended Turmel, the party will no doubt heed his advice. However, in getting to that point, the NDP will be tested yet again.The fall was always shaping up to be an interesting one for the NDP, but even after Layton's announcement, there was the hope that it would not be such a sad one. The reaction to Layton's death Monday was universally one of grief. It is hard to argue that Canada is not a poorer place without his booming voice of righteousness echoing in through the halls of Parliament.To his last day, Layton encompassed in his personal style everything he wished his party to be: principled; unfailing in character; consistent in the dedication to progressive values; and forever a fighter. In his letter, he again reminded Canadians that a bright future is possible.\"Canada is a great country, one of the hopes of the world. We can be a better one \u2013 a country of greater equality, justice, and opportunity \u2026 Don't let them tell you it can't be done.\"And after thanking and encouraging his caucus, party members, Quebecers and Canada's youth, he signed off:\"My friends, love is better than anger. Hope is better than fear. Optimism is better than despair. So let us be loving, hopeful and optimistic. And we'll change the world.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Jack Layton's legacy to Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-09-24T12:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Over the last decade, there have been a number of surface-level parallels between Canadian and British politics. First, each country replaced a long-standing prime minister with his former finance minister. Then, when each of those in turn gradually drowned under a cascade of leftover grievances and his own failure to unite a divided party, both Canada and Britain turned to their respective opposition Conservatives \u2013 but even then, only just.In 2011, after five years of minority rule, Stephen Harper finally guided his Conservative party into majority territory, opposed and balanced in the House by a party that was once a political afterthought, pushed to prominence by a leader nobody took seriously only weeks before election day. Almost exactly a year earlier, in 2010, a similar narrative played out in Britain, ending with David Cameron's Conservative coalition government.Despite all of that, the realities facing each country when Cameron and Harper were respectively elected were very different \u2013 and remain so. On the one hand, the UK was, and still is, staring at the business end of an economic nightmare in the eurozone, to which so many of its decisions, like those of foreign policy, are weighted. It is also still recovering from the 2008 banking system implosion, suffering high unemployment and grappling with its own faltering economy. On the other hand, as Cameron highlighted in his speech to Canadian Parliament in Ottawa Thursday night, no Canadian bank has yet \"failed or faltered\" during the recession. Canada's economic relationship with the EU is currently focused on an upcoming free trade agreement, and it is determining the best way to handle a resource-rich export economy. On foreign policy, it looks not to Europe, but to the US.Even the two leaders seem to differ in their relationship to conservatism and politics: Harper, the wonkish tactician, bred into western Reformist ideology, and an active politician at a young age, versus Cameron, a former PR brain for a TV company, bred into the ethos of noblesse oblige at Eton.\u00a0Yet, as Cameron spoke to a packed House of Commons, similarities seemed to outweigh differences. Cameron hit home ideas that have become familiar tropes for the Harper Conservatives: the threat of the global economic crisis to the success of Canadian private enterprise; the dangers of Islamist extremism, dampened by Canada's role in Nato missions in Afghanistan and Libya; and the fear of potential government overspending, solved only by continued austerity and deficit reduction.\u00a0It was so much like a Harper speech, that despite the marked differences between the realities of each nation's relationship to various continued global crises, one could have been forgiven for mistaking the two leaders Thursday.In his rhetoric, Cameron sounded as if he'd been dipped in a Harper Prime Ministerial gloss and set on a shelf; or marked as the updated operating software of the ideology that finally, after endless processing, spat out a majority government this spring: a sort of Harper 2.0. He appeared just like all other \"modernised\" politicians, running on an iTunes approach to public policy \u2013 immediately detecting a blip of interest in themes and automatically offering up similar options you might also enjoy \u2013 only this time, smoother, younger, about an inch taller, wearing a pale blue tie, and flying in on a transatlantic commercial red-eye to Terminal 3 at Heathrow.Britons might take note.", "tags": ["David Cameron", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "David Cameron finds right alignment in Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-09-28T16:15:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The global battle raging over the Canadian tar sands had a dramatic homecoming on Monday. Hundreds of Canadians \u2013 among them environmentalists, union members and native leaders \u2013 converged on Ottawa's Parliament Hill to protest the Conservative government's aggressive promotion of the Keystone XL pipeline and the Albertan industry widely castigated as the world's most environmentally destructive.In waves, about 200 people crossed a 3ft fence marking a restricted police zone to symbolically deliver a message to Canada's Prime Minister. Most were detained and later released with trespassing tickets. The beat of a native drum kept supporters buoyant, gigantic fake syringes reading \"tar sands junkie\" bobbed in the crowd, and Raging Grannies belted out spirited renditions of classic protest songs with oily twists.The Canadian action heralds a new spirit of defiance in the broader climate change movement. It follows on two weeks of sit-ins at the White House in Washington last month where more than 1,200 people were arrested over Keystone XL \u2013 the TransCanada pipeline that would carry the dirty Alberta oil to Texas refineries. The Washington protesters successfully introduced millions of Americans to their No 1 source for oil imports, putting an ecological-disaster zone the size of Florida on the map; now, their Canadian counterparts showed they were neither silent nor passive on the issue. These are signs that the environmentalist community \u2013 professionalised and tame for too long \u2013 may have discovered a much-needed impetus for civil disobedience.This has accomplished an end possible only when the powerful are confronted by direct action: it has brought to the surface the hidden tensions and costs behind the Keystone XL project, exposing them to public scrutiny. The opposing camps are no longer simply battling for the hearts and minds of North Americans over a pipeline, but on the more essential question of the future of continental energy use. The contending visions offer us a stark choice: to relentlessly drill and dig for the deepest and dirtiest fossil fuels, or to promote a sustainable, cleaner future of renewable power from the sun, wind and waves.Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper's description of the Keystone XL pipeline decision as a \"no-brainer\" is a crude illustration of his government's position: a mixture of hubris and recklessness that embraces an era of extreme energy use and runaway climate change. His friends in the Alberta oil patch have set their hopes on scraping every last dollar's worth of bitumen from the ground: 4-5m barrels a day by the end of the decade, continuing until 97% of oil yet to be developed is gone and untold carbon emissions have been released. Alberta Energy Minister Ron Liepert has expressed the need for more pipeline infrastructure as a provocation: \"By 2020, we may need three Keystones,\" he told the Financial TimesBut the heavy police presence, designed to tackle up to 8,000 protesters, and miles of fence that surrounded Ottawa's Parliament on Monday were a physical manifestation of the Canadian government's growing anxiety. Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver conceded that the protests are a \"major concern\". Since 2010, as discovered by \"access-to-information\" [freedom of information] requests I have made, the prime minister's office has convened secret high-level meetings involving the cabinet to address the \"escalating pressure\" from the climate movement; further disclosures have been delayed by government officials.New documents released to Friends of the Earth, however, have revealed that US State Department officials contemplated a two-year delay to the pipeline in June 2010; and this was before opposition had reached its current, feverish pitch. Little wonder the Canadian government and oil companies are now frantically mounting a public relations offensive. The natural resources minister is hitting the road for a global promotional tour; TransCanada is breaking lobbying records and hiring a lobbyist with such strong ties to the US government that State Department officials have coached him on the finer points of public relations; and Harper has been cultivating British Prime Minister David Cameron, recently in Canada, as a key ally in the fight against a European environmental regulation that could block tar sands imports and tilt US policy-makers in the same direction.With only months before a decision over the Keystone XL is expected from Secretary of State Clinton, there are signs of a gathering storm of potentially decisive opposition. Protesters in Idaho are being arrested for blocking the shipment to Alberta of tar sands equipment called \"megaloads\"; legal challenges over endangered species that could further tie up the pipeline project are in the works; and there is the makings of a crucial fight over sovereignty between the State Department and native Americans, signalled last week in an anti-Keystone XL accord signed on the Rosebud Sioux reservation. Others plan to be a noisy presence at State Department public hearings, as well as following President Obama's campaign touring and targeting his campaign offices. On 6 November, exactly a year before the next election, thousands plan to encircle the White House in a human chain of protest.The promise of this growing focus for the climate movement, as with the recent Occupy Wall Street, lies partly in its impulse to pick up where the global justice movement left off: zoning in on the spaces of the elite responsible for the crisis, and transforming them into a place of dissent. Routes for pipelines, roads for mega-loads, hallways for lobbyists \u2013 the infrastructure of fossil fuels corporate magnates and their government enablers \u2013 may be turning into the site of historic and necessary confrontation.\u2022 This article originally stated that 8,000 police officers guarded the Parliament in Ottawa on Monday; in fact, a substantial police force designed to cope with up to 8,000 protesters attended. This was amended at 2pm EST (7pm UK time) on 28 September 2011.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Canada", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "Oil", "Business", "Climate change", "US domestic policy", "US news", "Obama administration", "Stephen Harper", "Protest", "Activism", "Environment", "Americas", "Keystone XL pipeline"], "title": "Keystone XL pipeline protest stirs in Canada | Martin Lukacs"},{"date": "2011-08-22T20:34:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It came as a surprise to many when New Democrat leader Jack Layton announced in July that he would be stepping down from his post to recover from cancer. It was only weeks since his NDP had galvanised Quebec \u2013 and much of Canada \u2013 to leap from fourth party status to the official opposition, providing a fascinating finish to what had, at first, appeared as merely an election of process. Layton promised he would return to the House in September, but as Canadians woke to learn Monday, that won't happen; Layton passed away, leaving behind a grieving nation and a rattled party.The spring election in Canada will forever be the story of the rise of the NDP, (the \"orange crush\", as it was termed, with reference to the party colours) and the party's fulfilment of its promise of a commitment to proposing a \"new vision of federalism, with progressive and social-democratic values\" shared with Quebecers. Out of the 103 seats, it grabbed on 2 May, 59 of them came from Quebec. This, despite selecting many unknown, inexperienced candidates \u2013 one of whom famously took a vacation to Las Vegas during the campaign, and four of whom were still university students.That success was due entirely to Layton. The NDP's failure to achieve a breakthrough despite consistently gaining seats in each of the last decade's frequent elections, finally changed this spring. Against a backdrop of increasingly cynical Conservative and Liberal narratives, the NDP, by and large, refused to go negative. Layton's positive populism was further punctuated by his own personal triumph over an earlier bout of prostate cancer and his recovery from a recent hip operation.His damn-the-torpedoes approach had many wondering early on whether the campaign trail would take its toll. It appeared to do the opposite. The cane he carried to ease his sore hip soon became a symbol for the party itself: consistently battered, but gradually overcoming its failings.And after an early summer filibuster over the government's back-to-work legislation for locked-out Canada Post employees, the NDP were looking to regroup, hire the necessary staffers for such a rapidly expanding party, and settle in for four years' work. Which meant that it came as a shock when Layton appeared before cameras in July, gaunt and hoarse, to announce that he was yet again suffering from cancer.It was a different sort of shock when he simultaneously recommended that rookie MP and former public service union head Nycole Turmel as his interim replacement. It didn't help that only days after Turmel was approved by the party's national council as the interim leader, it emerged that she had been a card-carrying member of the separatist Bloc Quebecois up until January of this year \u2013 only months before she ran as a star NDP candidate in Quebec.Turmel is an unknown. A poll released last week showed that 42% of Canadians have no opinion of her. Those ambiguous feelings highlight a problem inherent in the NDP's characterisation of itself as Layton's party \u2013 one that may only be exacerbated with his passing.The NDP faces a tough fall. When the House sits again in September, Turmel will inevitably lead off \"question period\", and serve as the primary spokeswoman for a party that will no longer be sitting in a bizarre, expectant stasis resting on the assumption that Layton will return, but instead, rollicking toward a leadership race and a by-election in Layton's Toronto-Danforth riding.There are a number of high-profile possible alternatives for party leader. It was for that reason Layton appointed an MP with no long-term leadership goals \u2013 the party will need a figurehead, not a babysitter. No doubt, out of solidarity, the party will move forward cohesively in the short term, but eventually, the questions will come. Who will \u2013 who can \u2013 take Layton's place? What will new voters, driven to the polls by Layton's dogged determination, make of the new alternative? And how well will Turmel perform against an experienced and often fierce government message machine?Before he passed away, Layton penned a letter to Canadians (pdf). In it, he recommended that the NDP hold a leadership race sooner rather than later, perhaps in the New Year. As it did when Layton recommended Turmel, the party will no doubt heed his advice. However, in getting to that point, the NDP will be tested yet again.The fall was always shaping up to be an interesting one for the NDP, but even after Layton's announcement, there was the hope that it would not be such a sad one. The reaction to Layton's death Monday was universally one of grief. It is hard to argue that Canada is not a poorer place without his booming voice of righteousness echoing in through the halls of Parliament.To his last day, Layton encompassed in his personal style everything he wished his party to be: principled; unfailing in character; consistent in the dedication to progressive values; and forever a fighter. In his letter, he again reminded Canadians that a bright future is possible.\"Canada is a great country, one of the hopes of the world. We can be a better one \u2013 a country of greater equality, justice, and opportunity \u2026 Don't let them tell you it can't be done.\"And after thanking and encouraging his caucus, party members, Quebecers and Canada's youth, he signed off:\"My friends, love is better than anger. Hope is better than fear. Optimism is better than despair. So let us be loving, hopeful and optimistic. And we'll change the world.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Jack Layton's legacy to Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-09-24T12:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Over the last decade, there have been a number of surface-level parallels between Canadian and British politics. First, each country replaced a long-standing prime minister with his former finance minister. Then, when each of those in turn gradually drowned under a cascade of leftover grievances and his own failure to unite a divided party, both Canada and Britain turned to their respective opposition Conservatives \u2013 but even then, only just.In 2011, after five years of minority rule, Stephen Harper finally guided his Conservative party into majority territory, opposed and balanced in the House by a party that was once a political afterthought, pushed to prominence by a leader nobody took seriously only weeks before election day. Almost exactly a year earlier, in 2010, a similar narrative played out in Britain, ending with David Cameron's Conservative coalition government.Despite all of that, the realities facing each country when Cameron and Harper were respectively elected were very different \u2013 and remain so. On the one hand, the UK was, and still is, staring at the business end of an economic nightmare in the eurozone, to which so many of its decisions, like those of foreign policy, are weighted. It is also still recovering from the 2008 banking system implosion, suffering high unemployment and grappling with its own faltering economy. On the other hand, as Cameron highlighted in his speech to Canadian Parliament in Ottawa Thursday night, no Canadian bank has yet \"failed or faltered\" during the recession. Canada's economic relationship with the EU is currently focused on an upcoming free trade agreement, and it is determining the best way to handle a resource-rich export economy. On foreign policy, it looks not to Europe, but to the US.Even the two leaders seem to differ in their relationship to conservatism and politics: Harper, the wonkish tactician, bred into western Reformist ideology, and an active politician at a young age, versus Cameron, a former PR brain for a TV company, bred into the ethos of noblesse oblige at Eton.\u00a0Yet, as Cameron spoke to a packed House of Commons, similarities seemed to outweigh differences. Cameron hit home ideas that have become familiar tropes for the Harper Conservatives: the threat of the global economic crisis to the success of Canadian private enterprise; the dangers of Islamist extremism, dampened by Canada's role in Nato missions in Afghanistan and Libya; and the fear of potential government overspending, solved only by continued austerity and deficit reduction.\u00a0It was so much like a Harper speech, that despite the marked differences between the realities of each nation's relationship to various continued global crises, one could have been forgiven for mistaking the two leaders Thursday.In his rhetoric, Cameron sounded as if he'd been dipped in a Harper Prime Ministerial gloss and set on a shelf; or marked as the updated operating software of the ideology that finally, after endless processing, spat out a majority government this spring: a sort of Harper 2.0. He appeared just like all other \"modernised\" politicians, running on an iTunes approach to public policy \u2013 immediately detecting a blip of interest in themes and automatically offering up similar options you might also enjoy \u2013 only this time, smoother, younger, about an inch taller, wearing a pale blue tie, and flying in on a transatlantic commercial red-eye to Terminal 3 at Heathrow.Britons might take note.", "tags": ["David Cameron", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "David Cameron finds right alignment in Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-09-28T16:15:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The global battle raging over the Canadian tar sands had a dramatic homecoming on Monday. Hundreds of Canadians \u2013 among them environmentalists, union members and native leaders \u2013 converged on Ottawa's Parliament Hill to protest the Conservative government's aggressive promotion of the Keystone XL pipeline and the Albertan industry widely castigated as the world's most environmentally destructive.In waves, about 200 people crossed a 3ft fence marking a restricted police zone to symbolically deliver a message to Canada's Prime Minister. Most were detained and later released with trespassing tickets. The beat of a native drum kept supporters buoyant, gigantic fake syringes reading \"tar sands junkie\" bobbed in the crowd, and Raging Grannies belted out spirited renditions of classic protest songs with oily twists.The Canadian action heralds a new spirit of defiance in the broader climate change movement. It follows on two weeks of sit-ins at the White House in Washington last month where more than 1,200 people were arrested over Keystone XL \u2013 the TransCanada pipeline that would carry the dirty Alberta oil to Texas refineries. The Washington protesters successfully introduced millions of Americans to their No 1 source for oil imports, putting an ecological-disaster zone the size of Florida on the map; now, their Canadian counterparts showed they were neither silent nor passive on the issue. These are signs that the environmentalist community \u2013 professionalised and tame for too long \u2013 may have discovered a much-needed impetus for civil disobedience.This has accomplished an end possible only when the powerful are confronted by direct action: it has brought to the surface the hidden tensions and costs behind the Keystone XL project, exposing them to public scrutiny. The opposing camps are no longer simply battling for the hearts and minds of North Americans over a pipeline, but on the more essential question of the future of continental energy use. The contending visions offer us a stark choice: to relentlessly drill and dig for the deepest and dirtiest fossil fuels, or to promote a sustainable, cleaner future of renewable power from the sun, wind and waves.Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper's description of the Keystone XL pipeline decision as a \"no-brainer\" is a crude illustration of his government's position: a mixture of hubris and recklessness that embraces an era of extreme energy use and runaway climate change. His friends in the Alberta oil patch have set their hopes on scraping every last dollar's worth of bitumen from the ground: 4-5m barrels a day by the end of the decade, continuing until 97% of oil yet to be developed is gone and untold carbon emissions have been released. Alberta Energy Minister Ron Liepert has expressed the need for more pipeline infrastructure as a provocation: \"By 2020, we may need three Keystones,\" he told the Financial TimesBut the heavy police presence, designed to tackle up to 8,000 protesters, and miles of fence that surrounded Ottawa's Parliament on Monday were a physical manifestation of the Canadian government's growing anxiety. Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver conceded that the protests are a \"major concern\". Since 2010, as discovered by \"access-to-information\" [freedom of information] requests I have made, the prime minister's office has convened secret high-level meetings involving the cabinet to address the \"escalating pressure\" from the climate movement; further disclosures have been delayed by government officials.New documents released to Friends of the Earth, however, have revealed that US State Department officials contemplated a two-year delay to the pipeline in June 2010; and this was before opposition had reached its current, feverish pitch. Little wonder the Canadian government and oil companies are now frantically mounting a public relations offensive. The natural resources minister is hitting the road for a global promotional tour; TransCanada is breaking lobbying records and hiring a lobbyist with such strong ties to the US government that State Department officials have coached him on the finer points of public relations; and Harper has been cultivating British Prime Minister David Cameron, recently in Canada, as a key ally in the fight against a European environmental regulation that could block tar sands imports and tilt US policy-makers in the same direction.With only months before a decision over the Keystone XL is expected from Secretary of State Clinton, there are signs of a gathering storm of potentially decisive opposition. Protesters in Idaho are being arrested for blocking the shipment to Alberta of tar sands equipment called \"megaloads\"; legal challenges over endangered species that could further tie up the pipeline project are in the works; and there is the makings of a crucial fight over sovereignty between the State Department and native Americans, signalled last week in an anti-Keystone XL accord signed on the Rosebud Sioux reservation. Others plan to be a noisy presence at State Department public hearings, as well as following President Obama's campaign touring and targeting his campaign offices. On 6 November, exactly a year before the next election, thousands plan to encircle the White House in a human chain of protest.The promise of this growing focus for the climate movement, as with the recent Occupy Wall Street, lies partly in its impulse to pick up where the global justice movement left off: zoning in on the spaces of the elite responsible for the crisis, and transforming them into a place of dissent. Routes for pipelines, roads for mega-loads, hallways for lobbyists \u2013 the infrastructure of fossil fuels corporate magnates and their government enablers \u2013 may be turning into the site of historic and necessary confrontation.\u2022 This article originally stated that 8,000 police officers guarded the Parliament in Ottawa on Monday; in fact, a substantial police force designed to cope with up to 8,000 protesters attended. This was amended at 2pm EST (7pm UK time) on 28 September 2011.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Canada", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "Oil", "Business", "Climate change", "US domestic policy", "US news", "Obama administration", "Stephen Harper", "Protest", "Activism", "Environment", "Americas", "Keystone XL pipeline"], "title": "Keystone XL pipeline protest stirs in Canada | Martin Lukacs"},{"date": "2011-09-27T12:59:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Once a protected species, Canada geese (Branta canadensis) may soon become a target for hunters. There are certainly so many of them in France that they are beginning to pose a threat to wetland biodiversity. On 6 September, the day before the shooting season opened in France, the National Hunters Federation (FNC) repeated its determination to have the geese put back on the list of waterfowl that can be hunted. But is this the right answer?The Canada goose is the largest goose found in Europe. It was introduced to Britain in the 17th century, then adopted as a game bird on the continent during the last century. In the wild they live 10 to 25 years and are prolific breeders. They are now resident in western Europe and, for reasons that remain obscure, their numbers have started increasing very fast. They are now on a list of 100 invasive species posing a serious threat to biodiversity in Europe.There were only several hundred Canada geese in France at the end of the 1990s. Now there are more than 5,000 spread over at least 58 d\u00e9partements, with half in the Paris area.\"Unlike other wild geese, the Canada goose is quite happy in the suburbs, in parks, on lakes and in marinas,\" says ornithologist Philippe Dubois, who is coordinating a national survey of invasive alien species for France's League for the Protection of Birds (LPO). \"Their droppings really make a mess on lawns and leisure areas, and in swimming pools.\" In 2009 the health risk caused by this pollution led to the temporary closure of an outdoor leisure centre at Cergy-Pontoise, north-west of Paris.If they settle in wilder spots, Canada geese pose other problems. \"They have a strong sense of territory and will prevent other waterfowl from moving into quite a large area round their nest, so they may hinder reproduction by ducks, coots and other goose species,\" Dubois says. He reckons that if the present population dynamic continues, something will have to be done. This would involve a more radical response than the occasional measures taken recently by the National Agency for Hunting and Wildlife (ONCFS), sterilising eggs and culling birds on the orders of the local government representative.In response to a government request for plans for a campaign, the ONCFS recommended a culling role for hunters. But Pierre Migot, its head, pointed out that many people don't want the geese to disappear and a goal needs to be set. So it remains to be seen what fate awaits the Canada goose in France.Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Jiguet, an ornithologist at the Mus\u00e9um d'Histoire Naturelle in Paris, has a compromise. \"Maybe they should resume hunting this invasive species,\" he says. \"But in exchange we should take the greylag goose off the game list, at least from August to October.\" In 2010 there were only 150 pairs left in France.This article orginally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Invasive species", "Birds", "Europe"], "title": "Canada geese, an invasive species soon to be culled"},{"date": "2011-08-22T20:34:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It came as a surprise to many when New Democrat leader Jack Layton announced in July that he would be stepping down from his post to recover from cancer. It was only weeks since his NDP had galvanised Quebec \u2013 and much of Canada \u2013 to leap from fourth party status to the official opposition, providing a fascinating finish to what had, at first, appeared as merely an election of process. Layton promised he would return to the House in September, but as Canadians woke to learn Monday, that won't happen; Layton passed away, leaving behind a grieving nation and a rattled party.The spring election in Canada will forever be the story of the rise of the NDP, (the \"orange crush\", as it was termed, with reference to the party colours) and the party's fulfilment of its promise of a commitment to proposing a \"new vision of federalism, with progressive and social-democratic values\" shared with Quebecers. Out of the 103 seats, it grabbed on 2 May, 59 of them came from Quebec. This, despite selecting many unknown, inexperienced candidates \u2013 one of whom famously took a vacation to Las Vegas during the campaign, and four of whom were still university students.That success was due entirely to Layton. The NDP's failure to achieve a breakthrough despite consistently gaining seats in each of the last decade's frequent elections, finally changed this spring. Against a backdrop of increasingly cynical Conservative and Liberal narratives, the NDP, by and large, refused to go negative. Layton's positive populism was further punctuated by his own personal triumph over an earlier bout of prostate cancer and his recovery from a recent hip operation.His damn-the-torpedoes approach had many wondering early on whether the campaign trail would take its toll. It appeared to do the opposite. The cane he carried to ease his sore hip soon became a symbol for the party itself: consistently battered, but gradually overcoming its failings.And after an early summer filibuster over the government's back-to-work legislation for locked-out Canada Post employees, the NDP were looking to regroup, hire the necessary staffers for such a rapidly expanding party, and settle in for four years' work. Which meant that it came as a shock when Layton appeared before cameras in July, gaunt and hoarse, to announce that he was yet again suffering from cancer.It was a different sort of shock when he simultaneously recommended that rookie MP and former public service union head Nycole Turmel as his interim replacement. It didn't help that only days after Turmel was approved by the party's national council as the interim leader, it emerged that she had been a card-carrying member of the separatist Bloc Quebecois up until January of this year \u2013 only months before she ran as a star NDP candidate in Quebec.Turmel is an unknown. A poll released last week showed that 42% of Canadians have no opinion of her. Those ambiguous feelings highlight a problem inherent in the NDP's characterisation of itself as Layton's party \u2013 one that may only be exacerbated with his passing.The NDP faces a tough fall. When the House sits again in September, Turmel will inevitably lead off \"question period\", and serve as the primary spokeswoman for a party that will no longer be sitting in a bizarre, expectant stasis resting on the assumption that Layton will return, but instead, rollicking toward a leadership race and a by-election in Layton's Toronto-Danforth riding.There are a number of high-profile possible alternatives for party leader. It was for that reason Layton appointed an MP with no long-term leadership goals \u2013 the party will need a figurehead, not a babysitter. No doubt, out of solidarity, the party will move forward cohesively in the short term, but eventually, the questions will come. Who will \u2013 who can \u2013 take Layton's place? What will new voters, driven to the polls by Layton's dogged determination, make of the new alternative? And how well will Turmel perform against an experienced and often fierce government message machine?Before he passed away, Layton penned a letter to Canadians (pdf). In it, he recommended that the NDP hold a leadership race sooner rather than later, perhaps in the New Year. As it did when Layton recommended Turmel, the party will no doubt heed his advice. However, in getting to that point, the NDP will be tested yet again.The fall was always shaping up to be an interesting one for the NDP, but even after Layton's announcement, there was the hope that it would not be such a sad one. The reaction to Layton's death Monday was universally one of grief. It is hard to argue that Canada is not a poorer place without his booming voice of righteousness echoing in through the halls of Parliament.To his last day, Layton encompassed in his personal style everything he wished his party to be: principled; unfailing in character; consistent in the dedication to progressive values; and forever a fighter. In his letter, he again reminded Canadians that a bright future is possible.\"Canada is a great country, one of the hopes of the world. We can be a better one \u2013 a country of greater equality, justice, and opportunity \u2026 Don't let them tell you it can't be done.\"And after thanking and encouraging his caucus, party members, Quebecers and Canada's youth, he signed off:\"My friends, love is better than anger. Hope is better than fear. Optimism is better than despair. So let us be loving, hopeful and optimistic. And we'll change the world.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Jack Layton's legacy to Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-09-24T12:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Over the last decade, there have been a number of surface-level parallels between Canadian and British politics. First, each country replaced a long-standing prime minister with his former finance minister. Then, when each of those in turn gradually drowned under a cascade of leftover grievances and his own failure to unite a divided party, both Canada and Britain turned to their respective opposition Conservatives \u2013 but even then, only just.In 2011, after five years of minority rule, Stephen Harper finally guided his Conservative party into majority territory, opposed and balanced in the House by a party that was once a political afterthought, pushed to prominence by a leader nobody took seriously only weeks before election day. Almost exactly a year earlier, in 2010, a similar narrative played out in Britain, ending with David Cameron's Conservative coalition government.Despite all of that, the realities facing each country when Cameron and Harper were respectively elected were very different \u2013 and remain so. On the one hand, the UK was, and still is, staring at the business end of an economic nightmare in the eurozone, to which so many of its decisions, like those of foreign policy, are weighted. It is also still recovering from the 2008 banking system implosion, suffering high unemployment and grappling with its own faltering economy. On the other hand, as Cameron highlighted in his speech to Canadian Parliament in Ottawa Thursday night, no Canadian bank has yet \"failed or faltered\" during the recession. Canada's economic relationship with the EU is currently focused on an upcoming free trade agreement, and it is determining the best way to handle a resource-rich export economy. On foreign policy, it looks not to Europe, but to the US.Even the two leaders seem to differ in their relationship to conservatism and politics: Harper, the wonkish tactician, bred into western Reformist ideology, and an active politician at a young age, versus Cameron, a former PR brain for a TV company, bred into the ethos of noblesse oblige at Eton.\u00a0Yet, as Cameron spoke to a packed House of Commons, similarities seemed to outweigh differences. Cameron hit home ideas that have become familiar tropes for the Harper Conservatives: the threat of the global economic crisis to the success of Canadian private enterprise; the dangers of Islamist extremism, dampened by Canada's role in Nato missions in Afghanistan and Libya; and the fear of potential government overspending, solved only by continued austerity and deficit reduction.\u00a0It was so much like a Harper speech, that despite the marked differences between the realities of each nation's relationship to various continued global crises, one could have been forgiven for mistaking the two leaders Thursday.In his rhetoric, Cameron sounded as if he'd been dipped in a Harper Prime Ministerial gloss and set on a shelf; or marked as the updated operating software of the ideology that finally, after endless processing, spat out a majority government this spring: a sort of Harper 2.0. He appeared just like all other \"modernised\" politicians, running on an iTunes approach to public policy \u2013 immediately detecting a blip of interest in themes and automatically offering up similar options you might also enjoy \u2013 only this time, smoother, younger, about an inch taller, wearing a pale blue tie, and flying in on a transatlantic commercial red-eye to Terminal 3 at Heathrow.Britons might take note.", "tags": ["David Cameron", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "David Cameron finds right alignment in Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-09-28T16:15:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The global battle raging over the Canadian tar sands had a dramatic homecoming on Monday. Hundreds of Canadians \u2013 among them environmentalists, union members and native leaders \u2013 converged on Ottawa's Parliament Hill to protest the Conservative government's aggressive promotion of the Keystone XL pipeline and the Albertan industry widely castigated as the world's most environmentally destructive.In waves, about 200 people crossed a 3ft fence marking a restricted police zone to symbolically deliver a message to Canada's Prime Minister. Most were detained and later released with trespassing tickets. The beat of a native drum kept supporters buoyant, gigantic fake syringes reading \"tar sands junkie\" bobbed in the crowd, and Raging Grannies belted out spirited renditions of classic protest songs with oily twists.The Canadian action heralds a new spirit of defiance in the broader climate change movement. It follows on two weeks of sit-ins at the White House in Washington last month where more than 1,200 people were arrested over Keystone XL \u2013 the TransCanada pipeline that would carry the dirty Alberta oil to Texas refineries. The Washington protesters successfully introduced millions of Americans to their No 1 source for oil imports, putting an ecological-disaster zone the size of Florida on the map; now, their Canadian counterparts showed they were neither silent nor passive on the issue. These are signs that the environmentalist community \u2013 professionalised and tame for too long \u2013 may have discovered a much-needed impetus for civil disobedience.This has accomplished an end possible only when the powerful are confronted by direct action: it has brought to the surface the hidden tensions and costs behind the Keystone XL project, exposing them to public scrutiny. The opposing camps are no longer simply battling for the hearts and minds of North Americans over a pipeline, but on the more essential question of the future of continental energy use. The contending visions offer us a stark choice: to relentlessly drill and dig for the deepest and dirtiest fossil fuels, or to promote a sustainable, cleaner future of renewable power from the sun, wind and waves.Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper's description of the Keystone XL pipeline decision as a \"no-brainer\" is a crude illustration of his government's position: a mixture of hubris and recklessness that embraces an era of extreme energy use and runaway climate change. His friends in the Alberta oil patch have set their hopes on scraping every last dollar's worth of bitumen from the ground: 4-5m barrels a day by the end of the decade, continuing until 97% of oil yet to be developed is gone and untold carbon emissions have been released. Alberta Energy Minister Ron Liepert has expressed the need for more pipeline infrastructure as a provocation: \"By 2020, we may need three Keystones,\" he told the Financial TimesBut the heavy police presence, designed to tackle up to 8,000 protesters, and miles of fence that surrounded Ottawa's Parliament on Monday were a physical manifestation of the Canadian government's growing anxiety. Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver conceded that the protests are a \"major concern\". Since 2010, as discovered by \"access-to-information\" [freedom of information] requests I have made, the prime minister's office has convened secret high-level meetings involving the cabinet to address the \"escalating pressure\" from the climate movement; further disclosures have been delayed by government officials.New documents released to Friends of the Earth, however, have revealed that US State Department officials contemplated a two-year delay to the pipeline in June 2010; and this was before opposition had reached its current, feverish pitch. Little wonder the Canadian government and oil companies are now frantically mounting a public relations offensive. The natural resources minister is hitting the road for a global promotional tour; TransCanada is breaking lobbying records and hiring a lobbyist with such strong ties to the US government that State Department officials have coached him on the finer points of public relations; and Harper has been cultivating British Prime Minister David Cameron, recently in Canada, as a key ally in the fight against a European environmental regulation that could block tar sands imports and tilt US policy-makers in the same direction.With only months before a decision over the Keystone XL is expected from Secretary of State Clinton, there are signs of a gathering storm of potentially decisive opposition. Protesters in Idaho are being arrested for blocking the shipment to Alberta of tar sands equipment called \"megaloads\"; legal challenges over endangered species that could further tie up the pipeline project are in the works; and there is the makings of a crucial fight over sovereignty between the State Department and native Americans, signalled last week in an anti-Keystone XL accord signed on the Rosebud Sioux reservation. Others plan to be a noisy presence at State Department public hearings, as well as following President Obama's campaign touring and targeting his campaign offices. On 6 November, exactly a year before the next election, thousands plan to encircle the White House in a human chain of protest.The promise of this growing focus for the climate movement, as with the recent Occupy Wall Street, lies partly in its impulse to pick up where the global justice movement left off: zoning in on the spaces of the elite responsible for the crisis, and transforming them into a place of dissent. Routes for pipelines, roads for mega-loads, hallways for lobbyists \u2013 the infrastructure of fossil fuels corporate magnates and their government enablers \u2013 may be turning into the site of historic and necessary confrontation.\u2022 This article originally stated that 8,000 police officers guarded the Parliament in Ottawa on Monday; in fact, a substantial police force designed to cope with up to 8,000 protesters attended. This was amended at 2pm EST (7pm UK time) on 28 September 2011.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Canada", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "Oil", "Business", "Climate change", "US domestic policy", "US news", "Obama administration", "Stephen Harper", "Protest", "Activism", "Environment", "Americas", "Keystone XL pipeline"], "title": "Keystone XL pipeline protest stirs in Canada | Martin Lukacs"},{"date": "2011-09-27T12:59:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Once a protected species, Canada geese (Branta canadensis) may soon become a target for hunters. There are certainly so many of them in France that they are beginning to pose a threat to wetland biodiversity. On 6 September, the day before the shooting season opened in France, the National Hunters Federation (FNC) repeated its determination to have the geese put back on the list of waterfowl that can be hunted. But is this the right answer?The Canada goose is the largest goose found in Europe. It was introduced to Britain in the 17th century, then adopted as a game bird on the continent during the last century. In the wild they live 10 to 25 years and are prolific breeders. They are now resident in western Europe and, for reasons that remain obscure, their numbers have started increasing very fast. They are now on a list of 100 invasive species posing a serious threat to biodiversity in Europe.There were only several hundred Canada geese in France at the end of the 1990s. Now there are more than 5,000 spread over at least 58 d\u00e9partements, with half in the Paris area.\"Unlike other wild geese, the Canada goose is quite happy in the suburbs, in parks, on lakes and in marinas,\" says ornithologist Philippe Dubois, who is coordinating a national survey of invasive alien species for France's League for the Protection of Birds (LPO). \"Their droppings really make a mess on lawns and leisure areas, and in swimming pools.\" In 2009 the health risk caused by this pollution led to the temporary closure of an outdoor leisure centre at Cergy-Pontoise, north-west of Paris.If they settle in wilder spots, Canada geese pose other problems. \"They have a strong sense of territory and will prevent other waterfowl from moving into quite a large area round their nest, so they may hinder reproduction by ducks, coots and other goose species,\" Dubois says. He reckons that if the present population dynamic continues, something will have to be done. This would involve a more radical response than the occasional measures taken recently by the National Agency for Hunting and Wildlife (ONCFS), sterilising eggs and culling birds on the orders of the local government representative.In response to a government request for plans for a campaign, the ONCFS recommended a culling role for hunters. But Pierre Migot, its head, pointed out that many people don't want the geese to disappear and a goal needs to be set. So it remains to be seen what fate awaits the Canada goose in France.Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Jiguet, an ornithologist at the Mus\u00e9um d'Histoire Naturelle in Paris, has a compromise. \"Maybe they should resume hunting this invasive species,\" he says. \"But in exchange we should take the greylag goose off the game list, at least from August to October.\" In 2010 there were only 150 pairs left in France.This article orginally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Invasive species", "Birds", "Europe"], "title": "Canada geese, an invasive species soon to be culled"},{"date": "2011-09-23T21:44:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After a night in the majestic Fairmont Le Ch\u00e2teau Frontenac in Quebec City \u2013 a quaint old place of narrow, winding streets and Parisian-style cafes, we drove to Tadoussac, almost a ghost town except for the thousands of tourists who come here each year for the whale-watching.At 8.30am, we boarded a boat and 1\u00bd hours later we were at the junction of the Saint Lawrence and Saguenay rivers. The long wait and bitterly cold winds were worth it for different species of whales we saw moving gracefully in the water. Every time a whale was spotted the captain would sail the boat in that direction. There would be a few seconds of amazement and then the moment was gone.The trip only got better, with the most memorable experience at Saint-F\u00e9licien zoo, one of the largest zoos in Qu\u00e9bec, which is dedicated to wildlife conservation. A behind-the-scenes tour took us around the huge open land in a small minibus to see pigs and beavers, American bison and elk. We even saw the face of a black bear metres away from our window.The day ended with a sunset canoe ride on a lake, then we camped in luxurious hut-like tents in an enclosed area of the forest. We had rare and intimate contact with the caribou, who wandered around our campsite. They were completely uninterested in us, contrasting with our enthusiasm to be so close to these beautiful creatures. Our guide told us that not too long ago a lady got up to use the outdoor toilet at 3am and realised there was a bear clawing at the roof once she had locked herself in! The guards had to be called to rescue her. We had no such drama and slept through the night peacefully.\u2022 Frontier Travel (020-8776 8709, frontier-travel.co.uk) offers a one-week wildlife tour including London-Montreal flights with Air Canada, car hire, six nights' hotel accommodation and one night in a Prospector's Tent at Zoo St-F\u00e9licien. Prices start from \u00a31,499pp for 2012. For more information on holidays in Quebec see bonjourquebec.co.uk ", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Travel writing competition", "Wildlife holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Montreal holidays", "Adventure travel", "Quebec"], "title": "Readers' travel writing competition: wildlife trip to Quebec, Canada"},{"date": "2011-08-22T20:34:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It came as a surprise to many when New Democrat leader Jack Layton announced in July that he would be stepping down from his post to recover from cancer. It was only weeks since his NDP had galvanised Quebec \u2013 and much of Canada \u2013 to leap from fourth party status to the official opposition, providing a fascinating finish to what had, at first, appeared as merely an election of process. Layton promised he would return to the House in September, but as Canadians woke to learn Monday, that won't happen; Layton passed away, leaving behind a grieving nation and a rattled party.The spring election in Canada will forever be the story of the rise of the NDP, (the \"orange crush\", as it was termed, with reference to the party colours) and the party's fulfilment of its promise of a commitment to proposing a \"new vision of federalism, with progressive and social-democratic values\" shared with Quebecers. Out of the 103 seats, it grabbed on 2 May, 59 of them came from Quebec. This, despite selecting many unknown, inexperienced candidates \u2013 one of whom famously took a vacation to Las Vegas during the campaign, and four of whom were still university students.That success was due entirely to Layton. The NDP's failure to achieve a breakthrough despite consistently gaining seats in each of the last decade's frequent elections, finally changed this spring. Against a backdrop of increasingly cynical Conservative and Liberal narratives, the NDP, by and large, refused to go negative. Layton's positive populism was further punctuated by his own personal triumph over an earlier bout of prostate cancer and his recovery from a recent hip operation.His damn-the-torpedoes approach had many wondering early on whether the campaign trail would take its toll. It appeared to do the opposite. The cane he carried to ease his sore hip soon became a symbol for the party itself: consistently battered, but gradually overcoming its failings.And after an early summer filibuster over the government's back-to-work legislation for locked-out Canada Post employees, the NDP were looking to regroup, hire the necessary staffers for such a rapidly expanding party, and settle in for four years' work. Which meant that it came as a shock when Layton appeared before cameras in July, gaunt and hoarse, to announce that he was yet again suffering from cancer.It was a different sort of shock when he simultaneously recommended that rookie MP and former public service union head Nycole Turmel as his interim replacement. It didn't help that only days after Turmel was approved by the party's national council as the interim leader, it emerged that she had been a card-carrying member of the separatist Bloc Quebecois up until January of this year \u2013 only months before she ran as a star NDP candidate in Quebec.Turmel is an unknown. A poll released last week showed that 42% of Canadians have no opinion of her. Those ambiguous feelings highlight a problem inherent in the NDP's characterisation of itself as Layton's party \u2013 one that may only be exacerbated with his passing.The NDP faces a tough fall. When the House sits again in September, Turmel will inevitably lead off \"question period\", and serve as the primary spokeswoman for a party that will no longer be sitting in a bizarre, expectant stasis resting on the assumption that Layton will return, but instead, rollicking toward a leadership race and a by-election in Layton's Toronto-Danforth riding.There are a number of high-profile possible alternatives for party leader. It was for that reason Layton appointed an MP with no long-term leadership goals \u2013 the party will need a figurehead, not a babysitter. No doubt, out of solidarity, the party will move forward cohesively in the short term, but eventually, the questions will come. Who will \u2013 who can \u2013 take Layton's place? What will new voters, driven to the polls by Layton's dogged determination, make of the new alternative? And how well will Turmel perform against an experienced and often fierce government message machine?Before he passed away, Layton penned a letter to Canadians (pdf). In it, he recommended that the NDP hold a leadership race sooner rather than later, perhaps in the New Year. As it did when Layton recommended Turmel, the party will no doubt heed his advice. However, in getting to that point, the NDP will be tested yet again.The fall was always shaping up to be an interesting one for the NDP, but even after Layton's announcement, there was the hope that it would not be such a sad one. The reaction to Layton's death Monday was universally one of grief. It is hard to argue that Canada is not a poorer place without his booming voice of righteousness echoing in through the halls of Parliament.To his last day, Layton encompassed in his personal style everything he wished his party to be: principled; unfailing in character; consistent in the dedication to progressive values; and forever a fighter. In his letter, he again reminded Canadians that a bright future is possible.\"Canada is a great country, one of the hopes of the world. We can be a better one \u2013 a country of greater equality, justice, and opportunity \u2026 Don't let them tell you it can't be done.\"And after thanking and encouraging his caucus, party members, Quebecers and Canada's youth, he signed off:\"My friends, love is better than anger. Hope is better than fear. Optimism is better than despair. So let us be loving, hopeful and optimistic. And we'll change the world.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Jack Layton's legacy to Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-09-24T12:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Over the last decade, there have been a number of surface-level parallels between Canadian and British politics. First, each country replaced a long-standing prime minister with his former finance minister. Then, when each of those in turn gradually drowned under a cascade of leftover grievances and his own failure to unite a divided party, both Canada and Britain turned to their respective opposition Conservatives \u2013 but even then, only just.In 2011, after five years of minority rule, Stephen Harper finally guided his Conservative party into majority territory, opposed and balanced in the House by a party that was once a political afterthought, pushed to prominence by a leader nobody took seriously only weeks before election day. Almost exactly a year earlier, in 2010, a similar narrative played out in Britain, ending with David Cameron's Conservative coalition government.Despite all of that, the realities facing each country when Cameron and Harper were respectively elected were very different \u2013 and remain so. On the one hand, the UK was, and still is, staring at the business end of an economic nightmare in the eurozone, to which so many of its decisions, like those of foreign policy, are weighted. It is also still recovering from the 2008 banking system implosion, suffering high unemployment and grappling with its own faltering economy. On the other hand, as Cameron highlighted in his speech to Canadian Parliament in Ottawa Thursday night, no Canadian bank has yet \"failed or faltered\" during the recession. Canada's economic relationship with the EU is currently focused on an upcoming free trade agreement, and it is determining the best way to handle a resource-rich export economy. On foreign policy, it looks not to Europe, but to the US.Even the two leaders seem to differ in their relationship to conservatism and politics: Harper, the wonkish tactician, bred into western Reformist ideology, and an active politician at a young age, versus Cameron, a former PR brain for a TV company, bred into the ethos of noblesse oblige at Eton.\u00a0Yet, as Cameron spoke to a packed House of Commons, similarities seemed to outweigh differences. Cameron hit home ideas that have become familiar tropes for the Harper Conservatives: the threat of the global economic crisis to the success of Canadian private enterprise; the dangers of Islamist extremism, dampened by Canada's role in Nato missions in Afghanistan and Libya; and the fear of potential government overspending, solved only by continued austerity and deficit reduction.\u00a0It was so much like a Harper speech, that despite the marked differences between the realities of each nation's relationship to various continued global crises, one could have been forgiven for mistaking the two leaders Thursday.In his rhetoric, Cameron sounded as if he'd been dipped in a Harper Prime Ministerial gloss and set on a shelf; or marked as the updated operating software of the ideology that finally, after endless processing, spat out a majority government this spring: a sort of Harper 2.0. He appeared just like all other \"modernised\" politicians, running on an iTunes approach to public policy \u2013 immediately detecting a blip of interest in themes and automatically offering up similar options you might also enjoy \u2013 only this time, smoother, younger, about an inch taller, wearing a pale blue tie, and flying in on a transatlantic commercial red-eye to Terminal 3 at Heathrow.Britons might take note.", "tags": ["David Cameron", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "David Cameron finds right alignment in Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-09-28T16:15:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The global battle raging over the Canadian tar sands had a dramatic homecoming on Monday. Hundreds of Canadians \u2013 among them environmentalists, union members and native leaders \u2013 converged on Ottawa's Parliament Hill to protest the Conservative government's aggressive promotion of the Keystone XL pipeline and the Albertan industry widely castigated as the world's most environmentally destructive.In waves, about 200 people crossed a 3ft fence marking a restricted police zone to symbolically deliver a message to Canada's Prime Minister. Most were detained and later released with trespassing tickets. The beat of a native drum kept supporters buoyant, gigantic fake syringes reading \"tar sands junkie\" bobbed in the crowd, and Raging Grannies belted out spirited renditions of classic protest songs with oily twists.The Canadian action heralds a new spirit of defiance in the broader climate change movement. It follows on two weeks of sit-ins at the White House in Washington last month where more than 1,200 people were arrested over Keystone XL \u2013 the TransCanada pipeline that would carry the dirty Alberta oil to Texas refineries. The Washington protesters successfully introduced millions of Americans to their No 1 source for oil imports, putting an ecological-disaster zone the size of Florida on the map; now, their Canadian counterparts showed they were neither silent nor passive on the issue. These are signs that the environmentalist community \u2013 professionalised and tame for too long \u2013 may have discovered a much-needed impetus for civil disobedience.This has accomplished an end possible only when the powerful are confronted by direct action: it has brought to the surface the hidden tensions and costs behind the Keystone XL project, exposing them to public scrutiny. The opposing camps are no longer simply battling for the hearts and minds of North Americans over a pipeline, but on the more essential question of the future of continental energy use. The contending visions offer us a stark choice: to relentlessly drill and dig for the deepest and dirtiest fossil fuels, or to promote a sustainable, cleaner future of renewable power from the sun, wind and waves.Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper's description of the Keystone XL pipeline decision as a \"no-brainer\" is a crude illustration of his government's position: a mixture of hubris and recklessness that embraces an era of extreme energy use and runaway climate change. His friends in the Alberta oil patch have set their hopes on scraping every last dollar's worth of bitumen from the ground: 4-5m barrels a day by the end of the decade, continuing until 97% of oil yet to be developed is gone and untold carbon emissions have been released. Alberta Energy Minister Ron Liepert has expressed the need for more pipeline infrastructure as a provocation: \"By 2020, we may need three Keystones,\" he told the Financial TimesBut the heavy police presence, designed to tackle up to 8,000 protesters, and miles of fence that surrounded Ottawa's Parliament on Monday were a physical manifestation of the Canadian government's growing anxiety. Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver conceded that the protests are a \"major concern\". Since 2010, as discovered by \"access-to-information\" [freedom of information] requests I have made, the prime minister's office has convened secret high-level meetings involving the cabinet to address the \"escalating pressure\" from the climate movement; further disclosures have been delayed by government officials.New documents released to Friends of the Earth, however, have revealed that US State Department officials contemplated a two-year delay to the pipeline in June 2010; and this was before opposition had reached its current, feverish pitch. Little wonder the Canadian government and oil companies are now frantically mounting a public relations offensive. The natural resources minister is hitting the road for a global promotional tour; TransCanada is breaking lobbying records and hiring a lobbyist with such strong ties to the US government that State Department officials have coached him on the finer points of public relations; and Harper has been cultivating British Prime Minister David Cameron, recently in Canada, as a key ally in the fight against a European environmental regulation that could block tar sands imports and tilt US policy-makers in the same direction.With only months before a decision over the Keystone XL is expected from Secretary of State Clinton, there are signs of a gathering storm of potentially decisive opposition. Protesters in Idaho are being arrested for blocking the shipment to Alberta of tar sands equipment called \"megaloads\"; legal challenges over endangered species that could further tie up the pipeline project are in the works; and there is the makings of a crucial fight over sovereignty between the State Department and native Americans, signalled last week in an anti-Keystone XL accord signed on the Rosebud Sioux reservation. Others plan to be a noisy presence at State Department public hearings, as well as following President Obama's campaign touring and targeting his campaign offices. On 6 November, exactly a year before the next election, thousands plan to encircle the White House in a human chain of protest.The promise of this growing focus for the climate movement, as with the recent Occupy Wall Street, lies partly in its impulse to pick up where the global justice movement left off: zoning in on the spaces of the elite responsible for the crisis, and transforming them into a place of dissent. Routes for pipelines, roads for mega-loads, hallways for lobbyists \u2013 the infrastructure of fossil fuels corporate magnates and their government enablers \u2013 may be turning into the site of historic and necessary confrontation.\u2022 This article originally stated that 8,000 police officers guarded the Parliament in Ottawa on Monday; in fact, a substantial police force designed to cope with up to 8,000 protesters attended. This was amended at 2pm EST (7pm UK time) on 28 September 2011.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Canada", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "Oil", "Business", "Climate change", "US domestic policy", "US news", "Obama administration", "Stephen Harper", "Protest", "Activism", "Environment", "Americas", "Keystone XL pipeline"], "title": "Keystone XL pipeline protest stirs in Canada | Martin Lukacs"},{"date": "2011-09-27T12:59:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Once a protected species, Canada geese (Branta canadensis) may soon become a target for hunters. There are certainly so many of them in France that they are beginning to pose a threat to wetland biodiversity. On 6 September, the day before the shooting season opened in France, the National Hunters Federation (FNC) repeated its determination to have the geese put back on the list of waterfowl that can be hunted. But is this the right answer?The Canada goose is the largest goose found in Europe. It was introduced to Britain in the 17th century, then adopted as a game bird on the continent during the last century. In the wild they live 10 to 25 years and are prolific breeders. They are now resident in western Europe and, for reasons that remain obscure, their numbers have started increasing very fast. They are now on a list of 100 invasive species posing a serious threat to biodiversity in Europe.There were only several hundred Canada geese in France at the end of the 1990s. Now there are more than 5,000 spread over at least 58 d\u00e9partements, with half in the Paris area.\"Unlike other wild geese, the Canada goose is quite happy in the suburbs, in parks, on lakes and in marinas,\" says ornithologist Philippe Dubois, who is coordinating a national survey of invasive alien species for France's League for the Protection of Birds (LPO). \"Their droppings really make a mess on lawns and leisure areas, and in swimming pools.\" In 2009 the health risk caused by this pollution led to the temporary closure of an outdoor leisure centre at Cergy-Pontoise, north-west of Paris.If they settle in wilder spots, Canada geese pose other problems. \"They have a strong sense of territory and will prevent other waterfowl from moving into quite a large area round their nest, so they may hinder reproduction by ducks, coots and other goose species,\" Dubois says. He reckons that if the present population dynamic continues, something will have to be done. This would involve a more radical response than the occasional measures taken recently by the National Agency for Hunting and Wildlife (ONCFS), sterilising eggs and culling birds on the orders of the local government representative.In response to a government request for plans for a campaign, the ONCFS recommended a culling role for hunters. But Pierre Migot, its head, pointed out that many people don't want the geese to disappear and a goal needs to be set. So it remains to be seen what fate awaits the Canada goose in France.Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Jiguet, an ornithologist at the Mus\u00e9um d'Histoire Naturelle in Paris, has a compromise. \"Maybe they should resume hunting this invasive species,\" he says. \"But in exchange we should take the greylag goose off the game list, at least from August to October.\" In 2010 there were only 150 pairs left in France.This article orginally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Invasive species", "Birds", "Europe"], "title": "Canada geese, an invasive species soon to be culled"},{"date": "2011-09-23T21:44:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After a night in the majestic Fairmont Le Ch\u00e2teau Frontenac in Quebec City \u2013 a quaint old place of narrow, winding streets and Parisian-style cafes, we drove to Tadoussac, almost a ghost town except for the thousands of tourists who come here each year for the whale-watching.At 8.30am, we boarded a boat and 1\u00bd hours later we were at the junction of the Saint Lawrence and Saguenay rivers. The long wait and bitterly cold winds were worth it for different species of whales we saw moving gracefully in the water. Every time a whale was spotted the captain would sail the boat in that direction. There would be a few seconds of amazement and then the moment was gone.The trip only got better, with the most memorable experience at Saint-F\u00e9licien zoo, one of the largest zoos in Qu\u00e9bec, which is dedicated to wildlife conservation. A behind-the-scenes tour took us around the huge open land in a small minibus to see pigs and beavers, American bison and elk. We even saw the face of a black bear metres away from our window.The day ended with a sunset canoe ride on a lake, then we camped in luxurious hut-like tents in an enclosed area of the forest. We had rare and intimate contact with the caribou, who wandered around our campsite. They were completely uninterested in us, contrasting with our enthusiasm to be so close to these beautiful creatures. Our guide told us that not too long ago a lady got up to use the outdoor toilet at 3am and realised there was a bear clawing at the roof once she had locked herself in! The guards had to be called to rescue her. We had no such drama and slept through the night peacefully.\u2022 Frontier Travel (020-8776 8709, frontier-travel.co.uk) offers a one-week wildlife tour including London-Montreal flights with Air Canada, car hire, six nights' hotel accommodation and one night in a Prospector's Tent at Zoo St-F\u00e9licien. Prices start from \u00a31,499pp for 2012. For more information on holidays in Quebec see bonjourquebec.co.uk ", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Travel writing competition", "Wildlife holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Montreal holidays", "Adventure travel", "Quebec"], "title": "Readers' travel writing competition: wildlife trip to Quebec, Canada"},{"date": "2011-07-03T19:07:55Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Let's skip the debate over whether or not Duchess Kate is a style icon. She's not, by the way \u2013 but that misses the point. What she is, rather, is a fashion diplomat. During this, her first foreign tour, she has shown an impressive ability to use her wardrobe as a tool for doing what royals are supposed to do on foreign tours. Her clothes show respect, bring an emotional warmth that strengthens historic and strategic bonds, and send a positive message about the country and family she represents \u2013 not that the protesters in Quebec were necessarily taking any notice of that.Canadian symbols have featured prominently in Kate's looks so far. Her arrival outfit was a navy lace dress \u2013 very chic, her best look so far \u2013 by the designer Erdem, who is Canadian-born but lives and works in London. A smart touch, to reference the historic links between Britain and Canada in a contemporary way. The red maple leaf hat was another respectful nod, and the diamond maple leaf brooch, which she borrowed from the Queen for the trip, served both as a mark of respect to Canada and a way of bringing the Queen into the conversation.The fitted grey dress she wore on Friday was not as pretty as her other outfits, but even this was deliberate. The day would have been Diana, Princess of Wales's 50th birthday, so Kate chose a sombre dress by Catherine Walker, who was a favoured designer, friend and confidante of Diana. It was a classy thing to do: to put herself in the shadows a little, and shift the focus to Diana.Kate's signature look is defined by a sleek, slender silhouette, simple colour, and permanently red-carpet-ready hair. Royals on tour need to be recognisable, and she is: she knows as well as any spin doctor the pitfalls of over-complicating the message. There is not a lot of flair in how she dresses. The fan bag and the sparkly shoes are eye-catching, but a rather obvious way of signifying glamour for evening events. But flair is not what her wardrobe is about. As a diplomat of dress, she is rather impressive.", "tags": ["The Duchess of Cambridge", "UK news", "Monarchy", "Canada", "World news", "Fashion", "Life and style", "Americas"], "title": "Royal fashion: Kate Middleton shows diplomacy in Canada"},{"date": "2011-08-22T20:34:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It came as a surprise to many when New Democrat leader Jack Layton announced in July that he would be stepping down from his post to recover from cancer. It was only weeks since his NDP had galvanised Quebec \u2013 and much of Canada \u2013 to leap from fourth party status to the official opposition, providing a fascinating finish to what had, at first, appeared as merely an election of process. Layton promised he would return to the House in September, but as Canadians woke to learn Monday, that won't happen; Layton passed away, leaving behind a grieving nation and a rattled party.The spring election in Canada will forever be the story of the rise of the NDP, (the \"orange crush\", as it was termed, with reference to the party colours) and the party's fulfilment of its promise of a commitment to proposing a \"new vision of federalism, with progressive and social-democratic values\" shared with Quebecers. Out of the 103 seats, it grabbed on 2 May, 59 of them came from Quebec. This, despite selecting many unknown, inexperienced candidates \u2013 one of whom famously took a vacation to Las Vegas during the campaign, and four of whom were still university students.That success was due entirely to Layton. The NDP's failure to achieve a breakthrough despite consistently gaining seats in each of the last decade's frequent elections, finally changed this spring. Against a backdrop of increasingly cynical Conservative and Liberal narratives, the NDP, by and large, refused to go negative. Layton's positive populism was further punctuated by his own personal triumph over an earlier bout of prostate cancer and his recovery from a recent hip operation.His damn-the-torpedoes approach had many wondering early on whether the campaign trail would take its toll. It appeared to do the opposite. The cane he carried to ease his sore hip soon became a symbol for the party itself: consistently battered, but gradually overcoming its failings.And after an early summer filibuster over the government's back-to-work legislation for locked-out Canada Post employees, the NDP were looking to regroup, hire the necessary staffers for such a rapidly expanding party, and settle in for four years' work. Which meant that it came as a shock when Layton appeared before cameras in July, gaunt and hoarse, to announce that he was yet again suffering from cancer.It was a different sort of shock when he simultaneously recommended that rookie MP and former public service union head Nycole Turmel as his interim replacement. It didn't help that only days after Turmel was approved by the party's national council as the interim leader, it emerged that she had been a card-carrying member of the separatist Bloc Quebecois up until January of this year \u2013 only months before she ran as a star NDP candidate in Quebec.Turmel is an unknown. A poll released last week showed that 42% of Canadians have no opinion of her. Those ambiguous feelings highlight a problem inherent in the NDP's characterisation of itself as Layton's party \u2013 one that may only be exacerbated with his passing.The NDP faces a tough fall. When the House sits again in September, Turmel will inevitably lead off \"question period\", and serve as the primary spokeswoman for a party that will no longer be sitting in a bizarre, expectant stasis resting on the assumption that Layton will return, but instead, rollicking toward a leadership race and a by-election in Layton's Toronto-Danforth riding.There are a number of high-profile possible alternatives for party leader. It was for that reason Layton appointed an MP with no long-term leadership goals \u2013 the party will need a figurehead, not a babysitter. No doubt, out of solidarity, the party will move forward cohesively in the short term, but eventually, the questions will come. Who will \u2013 who can \u2013 take Layton's place? What will new voters, driven to the polls by Layton's dogged determination, make of the new alternative? And how well will Turmel perform against an experienced and often fierce government message machine?Before he passed away, Layton penned a letter to Canadians (pdf). In it, he recommended that the NDP hold a leadership race sooner rather than later, perhaps in the New Year. As it did when Layton recommended Turmel, the party will no doubt heed his advice. However, in getting to that point, the NDP will be tested yet again.The fall was always shaping up to be an interesting one for the NDP, but even after Layton's announcement, there was the hope that it would not be such a sad one. The reaction to Layton's death Monday was universally one of grief. It is hard to argue that Canada is not a poorer place without his booming voice of righteousness echoing in through the halls of Parliament.To his last day, Layton encompassed in his personal style everything he wished his party to be: principled; unfailing in character; consistent in the dedication to progressive values; and forever a fighter. In his letter, he again reminded Canadians that a bright future is possible.\"Canada is a great country, one of the hopes of the world. We can be a better one \u2013 a country of greater equality, justice, and opportunity \u2026 Don't let them tell you it can't be done.\"And after thanking and encouraging his caucus, party members, Quebecers and Canada's youth, he signed off:\"My friends, love is better than anger. Hope is better than fear. Optimism is better than despair. So let us be loving, hopeful and optimistic. And we'll change the world.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Jack Layton's legacy to Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-09-24T12:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Over the last decade, there have been a number of surface-level parallels between Canadian and British politics. First, each country replaced a long-standing prime minister with his former finance minister. Then, when each of those in turn gradually drowned under a cascade of leftover grievances and his own failure to unite a divided party, both Canada and Britain turned to their respective opposition Conservatives \u2013 but even then, only just.In 2011, after five years of minority rule, Stephen Harper finally guided his Conservative party into majority territory, opposed and balanced in the House by a party that was once a political afterthought, pushed to prominence by a leader nobody took seriously only weeks before election day. Almost exactly a year earlier, in 2010, a similar narrative played out in Britain, ending with David Cameron's Conservative coalition government.Despite all of that, the realities facing each country when Cameron and Harper were respectively elected were very different \u2013 and remain so. On the one hand, the UK was, and still is, staring at the business end of an economic nightmare in the eurozone, to which so many of its decisions, like those of foreign policy, are weighted. It is also still recovering from the 2008 banking system implosion, suffering high unemployment and grappling with its own faltering economy. On the other hand, as Cameron highlighted in his speech to Canadian Parliament in Ottawa Thursday night, no Canadian bank has yet \"failed or faltered\" during the recession. Canada's economic relationship with the EU is currently focused on an upcoming free trade agreement, and it is determining the best way to handle a resource-rich export economy. On foreign policy, it looks not to Europe, but to the US.Even the two leaders seem to differ in their relationship to conservatism and politics: Harper, the wonkish tactician, bred into western Reformist ideology, and an active politician at a young age, versus Cameron, a former PR brain for a TV company, bred into the ethos of noblesse oblige at Eton.\u00a0Yet, as Cameron spoke to a packed House of Commons, similarities seemed to outweigh differences. Cameron hit home ideas that have become familiar tropes for the Harper Conservatives: the threat of the global economic crisis to the success of Canadian private enterprise; the dangers of Islamist extremism, dampened by Canada's role in Nato missions in Afghanistan and Libya; and the fear of potential government overspending, solved only by continued austerity and deficit reduction.\u00a0It was so much like a Harper speech, that despite the marked differences between the realities of each nation's relationship to various continued global crises, one could have been forgiven for mistaking the two leaders Thursday.In his rhetoric, Cameron sounded as if he'd been dipped in a Harper Prime Ministerial gloss and set on a shelf; or marked as the updated operating software of the ideology that finally, after endless processing, spat out a majority government this spring: a sort of Harper 2.0. He appeared just like all other \"modernised\" politicians, running on an iTunes approach to public policy \u2013 immediately detecting a blip of interest in themes and automatically offering up similar options you might also enjoy \u2013 only this time, smoother, younger, about an inch taller, wearing a pale blue tie, and flying in on a transatlantic commercial red-eye to Terminal 3 at Heathrow.Britons might take note.", "tags": ["David Cameron", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "David Cameron finds right alignment in Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-09-28T16:15:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The global battle raging over the Canadian tar sands had a dramatic homecoming on Monday. Hundreds of Canadians \u2013 among them environmentalists, union members and native leaders \u2013 converged on Ottawa's Parliament Hill to protest the Conservative government's aggressive promotion of the Keystone XL pipeline and the Albertan industry widely castigated as the world's most environmentally destructive.In waves, about 200 people crossed a 3ft fence marking a restricted police zone to symbolically deliver a message to Canada's Prime Minister. Most were detained and later released with trespassing tickets. The beat of a native drum kept supporters buoyant, gigantic fake syringes reading \"tar sands junkie\" bobbed in the crowd, and Raging Grannies belted out spirited renditions of classic protest songs with oily twists.The Canadian action heralds a new spirit of defiance in the broader climate change movement. It follows on two weeks of sit-ins at the White House in Washington last month where more than 1,200 people were arrested over Keystone XL \u2013 the TransCanada pipeline that would carry the dirty Alberta oil to Texas refineries. The Washington protesters successfully introduced millions of Americans to their No 1 source for oil imports, putting an ecological-disaster zone the size of Florida on the map; now, their Canadian counterparts showed they were neither silent nor passive on the issue. These are signs that the environmentalist community \u2013 professionalised and tame for too long \u2013 may have discovered a much-needed impetus for civil disobedience.This has accomplished an end possible only when the powerful are confronted by direct action: it has brought to the surface the hidden tensions and costs behind the Keystone XL project, exposing them to public scrutiny. The opposing camps are no longer simply battling for the hearts and minds of North Americans over a pipeline, but on the more essential question of the future of continental energy use. The contending visions offer us a stark choice: to relentlessly drill and dig for the deepest and dirtiest fossil fuels, or to promote a sustainable, cleaner future of renewable power from the sun, wind and waves.Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper's description of the Keystone XL pipeline decision as a \"no-brainer\" is a crude illustration of his government's position: a mixture of hubris and recklessness that embraces an era of extreme energy use and runaway climate change. His friends in the Alberta oil patch have set their hopes on scraping every last dollar's worth of bitumen from the ground: 4-5m barrels a day by the end of the decade, continuing until 97% of oil yet to be developed is gone and untold carbon emissions have been released. Alberta Energy Minister Ron Liepert has expressed the need for more pipeline infrastructure as a provocation: \"By 2020, we may need three Keystones,\" he told the Financial TimesBut the heavy police presence, designed to tackle up to 8,000 protesters, and miles of fence that surrounded Ottawa's Parliament on Monday were a physical manifestation of the Canadian government's growing anxiety. Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver conceded that the protests are a \"major concern\". Since 2010, as discovered by \"access-to-information\" [freedom of information] requests I have made, the prime minister's office has convened secret high-level meetings involving the cabinet to address the \"escalating pressure\" from the climate movement; further disclosures have been delayed by government officials.New documents released to Friends of the Earth, however, have revealed that US State Department officials contemplated a two-year delay to the pipeline in June 2010; and this was before opposition had reached its current, feverish pitch. Little wonder the Canadian government and oil companies are now frantically mounting a public relations offensive. The natural resources minister is hitting the road for a global promotional tour; TransCanada is breaking lobbying records and hiring a lobbyist with such strong ties to the US government that State Department officials have coached him on the finer points of public relations; and Harper has been cultivating British Prime Minister David Cameron, recently in Canada, as a key ally in the fight against a European environmental regulation that could block tar sands imports and tilt US policy-makers in the same direction.With only months before a decision over the Keystone XL is expected from Secretary of State Clinton, there are signs of a gathering storm of potentially decisive opposition. Protesters in Idaho are being arrested for blocking the shipment to Alberta of tar sands equipment called \"megaloads\"; legal challenges over endangered species that could further tie up the pipeline project are in the works; and there is the makings of a crucial fight over sovereignty between the State Department and native Americans, signalled last week in an anti-Keystone XL accord signed on the Rosebud Sioux reservation. Others plan to be a noisy presence at State Department public hearings, as well as following President Obama's campaign touring and targeting his campaign offices. On 6 November, exactly a year before the next election, thousands plan to encircle the White House in a human chain of protest.The promise of this growing focus for the climate movement, as with the recent Occupy Wall Street, lies partly in its impulse to pick up where the global justice movement left off: zoning in on the spaces of the elite responsible for the crisis, and transforming them into a place of dissent. Routes for pipelines, roads for mega-loads, hallways for lobbyists \u2013 the infrastructure of fossil fuels corporate magnates and their government enablers \u2013 may be turning into the site of historic and necessary confrontation.\u2022 This article originally stated that 8,000 police officers guarded the Parliament in Ottawa on Monday; in fact, a substantial police force designed to cope with up to 8,000 protesters attended. This was amended at 2pm EST (7pm UK time) on 28 September 2011.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Canada", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "Oil", "Business", "Climate change", "US domestic policy", "US news", "Obama administration", "Stephen Harper", "Protest", "Activism", "Environment", "Americas", "Keystone XL pipeline"], "title": "Keystone XL pipeline protest stirs in Canada | Martin Lukacs"},{"date": "2011-09-27T12:59:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Once a protected species, Canada geese (Branta canadensis) may soon become a target for hunters. There are certainly so many of them in France that they are beginning to pose a threat to wetland biodiversity. On 6 September, the day before the shooting season opened in France, the National Hunters Federation (FNC) repeated its determination to have the geese put back on the list of waterfowl that can be hunted. But is this the right answer?The Canada goose is the largest goose found in Europe. It was introduced to Britain in the 17th century, then adopted as a game bird on the continent during the last century. In the wild they live 10 to 25 years and are prolific breeders. They are now resident in western Europe and, for reasons that remain obscure, their numbers have started increasing very fast. They are now on a list of 100 invasive species posing a serious threat to biodiversity in Europe.There were only several hundred Canada geese in France at the end of the 1990s. Now there are more than 5,000 spread over at least 58 d\u00e9partements, with half in the Paris area.\"Unlike other wild geese, the Canada goose is quite happy in the suburbs, in parks, on lakes and in marinas,\" says ornithologist Philippe Dubois, who is coordinating a national survey of invasive alien species for France's League for the Protection of Birds (LPO). \"Their droppings really make a mess on lawns and leisure areas, and in swimming pools.\" In 2009 the health risk caused by this pollution led to the temporary closure of an outdoor leisure centre at Cergy-Pontoise, north-west of Paris.If they settle in wilder spots, Canada geese pose other problems. \"They have a strong sense of territory and will prevent other waterfowl from moving into quite a large area round their nest, so they may hinder reproduction by ducks, coots and other goose species,\" Dubois says. He reckons that if the present population dynamic continues, something will have to be done. This would involve a more radical response than the occasional measures taken recently by the National Agency for Hunting and Wildlife (ONCFS), sterilising eggs and culling birds on the orders of the local government representative.In response to a government request for plans for a campaign, the ONCFS recommended a culling role for hunters. But Pierre Migot, its head, pointed out that many people don't want the geese to disappear and a goal needs to be set. So it remains to be seen what fate awaits the Canada goose in France.Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Jiguet, an ornithologist at the Mus\u00e9um d'Histoire Naturelle in Paris, has a compromise. \"Maybe they should resume hunting this invasive species,\" he says. \"But in exchange we should take the greylag goose off the game list, at least from August to October.\" In 2010 there were only 150 pairs left in France.This article orginally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Invasive species", "Birds", "Europe"], "title": "Canada geese, an invasive species soon to be culled"},{"date": "2011-09-23T21:44:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After a night in the majestic Fairmont Le Ch\u00e2teau Frontenac in Quebec City \u2013 a quaint old place of narrow, winding streets and Parisian-style cafes, we drove to Tadoussac, almost a ghost town except for the thousands of tourists who come here each year for the whale-watching.At 8.30am, we boarded a boat and 1\u00bd hours later we were at the junction of the Saint Lawrence and Saguenay rivers. The long wait and bitterly cold winds were worth it for different species of whales we saw moving gracefully in the water. Every time a whale was spotted the captain would sail the boat in that direction. There would be a few seconds of amazement and then the moment was gone.The trip only got better, with the most memorable experience at Saint-F\u00e9licien zoo, one of the largest zoos in Qu\u00e9bec, which is dedicated to wildlife conservation. A behind-the-scenes tour took us around the huge open land in a small minibus to see pigs and beavers, American bison and elk. We even saw the face of a black bear metres away from our window.The day ended with a sunset canoe ride on a lake, then we camped in luxurious hut-like tents in an enclosed area of the forest. We had rare and intimate contact with the caribou, who wandered around our campsite. They were completely uninterested in us, contrasting with our enthusiasm to be so close to these beautiful creatures. Our guide told us that not too long ago a lady got up to use the outdoor toilet at 3am and realised there was a bear clawing at the roof once she had locked herself in! The guards had to be called to rescue her. We had no such drama and slept through the night peacefully.\u2022 Frontier Travel (020-8776 8709, frontier-travel.co.uk) offers a one-week wildlife tour including London-Montreal flights with Air Canada, car hire, six nights' hotel accommodation and one night in a Prospector's Tent at Zoo St-F\u00e9licien. Prices start from \u00a31,499pp for 2012. For more information on holidays in Quebec see bonjourquebec.co.uk ", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Travel writing competition", "Wildlife holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Montreal holidays", "Adventure travel", "Quebec"], "title": "Readers' travel writing competition: wildlife trip to Quebec, Canada"},{"date": "2011-07-03T19:07:55Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Let's skip the debate over whether or not Duchess Kate is a style icon. She's not, by the way \u2013 but that misses the point. What she is, rather, is a fashion diplomat. During this, her first foreign tour, she has shown an impressive ability to use her wardrobe as a tool for doing what royals are supposed to do on foreign tours. Her clothes show respect, bring an emotional warmth that strengthens historic and strategic bonds, and send a positive message about the country and family she represents \u2013 not that the protesters in Quebec were necessarily taking any notice of that.Canadian symbols have featured prominently in Kate's looks so far. Her arrival outfit was a navy lace dress \u2013 very chic, her best look so far \u2013 by the designer Erdem, who is Canadian-born but lives and works in London. A smart touch, to reference the historic links between Britain and Canada in a contemporary way. The red maple leaf hat was another respectful nod, and the diamond maple leaf brooch, which she borrowed from the Queen for the trip, served both as a mark of respect to Canada and a way of bringing the Queen into the conversation.The fitted grey dress she wore on Friday was not as pretty as her other outfits, but even this was deliberate. The day would have been Diana, Princess of Wales's 50th birthday, so Kate chose a sombre dress by Catherine Walker, who was a favoured designer, friend and confidante of Diana. It was a classy thing to do: to put herself in the shadows a little, and shift the focus to Diana.Kate's signature look is defined by a sleek, slender silhouette, simple colour, and permanently red-carpet-ready hair. Royals on tour need to be recognisable, and she is: she knows as well as any spin doctor the pitfalls of over-complicating the message. There is not a lot of flair in how she dresses. The fan bag and the sparkly shoes are eye-catching, but a rather obvious way of signifying glamour for evening events. But flair is not what her wardrobe is about. As a diplomat of dress, she is rather impressive.", "tags": ["The Duchess of Cambridge", "UK news", "Monarchy", "Canada", "World news", "Fashion", "Life and style", "Americas"], "title": "Royal fashion: Kate Middleton shows diplomacy in Canada"},{"date": "2011-07-01T18:39:16Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Prince William saw the swearing in of 25 new Canadian citizens on Friday, though he \u2013 prince of Canada that he is \u2013 was not one of them.There were Chinese, Cubans, French, Greeks, Haitians, Romanians and even Madagascan residents swearing an oath of allegiance to his grandmother and to him as one of her heirs and successors, yet if anyone noticed the irony, they did not care to mention it.The prince, with his wife, Duchess Kate, beside him, was guest of honour on Canada Day in Ottawa and tens of thousands turned out to cheer and whoop.From early morning a sea of red and white converged in front of the country's parliament. On what was to become a hot and nearly cloudless day Canadians trudged towards the site, most wearing the national colours, many carrying maple leaf flags in their hair or on their baseball caps or T-shirts.If Canadians are God's doughty people \u2013 and some of them these days his doughy people too \u2013 they were stoically out to enjoy themselves. Some even carried macs, just in case.Across the river, outside the Canadian Museum of Civilization, an appropriate place for the citizenship ceremony in this most civilised nation, there was the first demonstrator of the tour. Dressed in a bear costume and bearing a motto \"Bearskins look better on bears\", she didn't seem to mind being ignored.Inside the museum's hall, lined with giant totem poles, mounties genially posed for photographs with the new citizens while the Canadian air force's string quartet gently strummed the theme from Desert Island Discs like a palm court orchestra \u2013 a strange choice as desert islands are one thing Canada lacks. On television screens more characteristic scenes were shown, most of them seemingly including snow.Two of the new citizens, Romanians Adrian and Florentina Uzea, cradling their baby daughter, Stephanie, were explaining their choice. Both agricultural economists \u2013 Adrian now works for the national organisation of broiler chicken farmers \u2013 they had decided Canada was a safer place to raise their daughter, though they retain their old nationality as well just in case there is a roasting in the Canadian poultry sector.\"In Romania when you decide to have kids you have to think twice, but here you know you can support your family,\" said Florentina. Looking round, she added: \"This is better than I expected \u2026 and yes, it is a thrill. We didn't know the prince would be here until recently.\"\"It's appropriate,\" chipped in her husband. \"Canada was a dominion of Britain, which makes it more special.\"Ceremonies were taking place across the country, from Gander to Whitehorse, the governor general said, swearing in maybe 150,000 new citizens, but only Ottawa had a prince to watch.And soon he was among them, grinning his diffident chipmunk smile, with his wife, a striking vision in white and red, beside him. Her costume, by the Montreal-born designer Erdem Moralioglu, was apparently the one chosen for her engagement photographs by Mario Testino last year \u2013 waste not want not, though hardly an austerity drive. It was topped by a small scarlet cross between a hat and a fascinator crowned with maple leaves and tailed by equally scarlet stilettos.Dutifully, the couple waited while the governor general, David Johnston, read out the oath of citizenship \u2013 first in French \u2013 leading the new citizens as they murmured allegiance to Sa Majest\u00e9 la Reine Elizabeth Deux; and then in English, louder, just to make sure.\"We are grateful you have chosen Canada,\" he said as if they had taken out a life insurance policy, which in a way some probably had. It was a gentle invitation, he said, echoing words of the Queen. Then: \"Do your best for Canada.\"For the royal party it was then on to the more boisterous celebrations across the river and up the hill, a journey partly undertaken in the state landau.Meanwhile, the crowds at the museum agreed the couple were lovely, sweet, gorgeous, a credit to Canada, a country Kate had not visited before.Three characters standing well back from the crowd, bearing posters saying \"No oath to royalty\", \"Democracy not royalty\" and, slightly more cumbersomely, \"Monarchy oaths violate charter freedoms\" were politely ignored \u2013 it is the Canadian way.", "tags": ["Canada", "Prince William", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Monarchy", "UK news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "William and Kate celebrate Canada Day with its newest citizens"},{"date": "2011-08-22T20:34:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It came as a surprise to many when New Democrat leader Jack Layton announced in July that he would be stepping down from his post to recover from cancer. It was only weeks since his NDP had galvanised Quebec \u2013 and much of Canada \u2013 to leap from fourth party status to the official opposition, providing a fascinating finish to what had, at first, appeared as merely an election of process. Layton promised he would return to the House in September, but as Canadians woke to learn Monday, that won't happen; Layton passed away, leaving behind a grieving nation and a rattled party.The spring election in Canada will forever be the story of the rise of the NDP, (the \"orange crush\", as it was termed, with reference to the party colours) and the party's fulfilment of its promise of a commitment to proposing a \"new vision of federalism, with progressive and social-democratic values\" shared with Quebecers. Out of the 103 seats, it grabbed on 2 May, 59 of them came from Quebec. This, despite selecting many unknown, inexperienced candidates \u2013 one of whom famously took a vacation to Las Vegas during the campaign, and four of whom were still university students.That success was due entirely to Layton. The NDP's failure to achieve a breakthrough despite consistently gaining seats in each of the last decade's frequent elections, finally changed this spring. Against a backdrop of increasingly cynical Conservative and Liberal narratives, the NDP, by and large, refused to go negative. Layton's positive populism was further punctuated by his own personal triumph over an earlier bout of prostate cancer and his recovery from a recent hip operation.His damn-the-torpedoes approach had many wondering early on whether the campaign trail would take its toll. It appeared to do the opposite. The cane he carried to ease his sore hip soon became a symbol for the party itself: consistently battered, but gradually overcoming its failings.And after an early summer filibuster over the government's back-to-work legislation for locked-out Canada Post employees, the NDP were looking to regroup, hire the necessary staffers for such a rapidly expanding party, and settle in for four years' work. Which meant that it came as a shock when Layton appeared before cameras in July, gaunt and hoarse, to announce that he was yet again suffering from cancer.It was a different sort of shock when he simultaneously recommended that rookie MP and former public service union head Nycole Turmel as his interim replacement. It didn't help that only days after Turmel was approved by the party's national council as the interim leader, it emerged that she had been a card-carrying member of the separatist Bloc Quebecois up until January of this year \u2013 only months before she ran as a star NDP candidate in Quebec.Turmel is an unknown. A poll released last week showed that 42% of Canadians have no opinion of her. Those ambiguous feelings highlight a problem inherent in the NDP's characterisation of itself as Layton's party \u2013 one that may only be exacerbated with his passing.The NDP faces a tough fall. When the House sits again in September, Turmel will inevitably lead off \"question period\", and serve as the primary spokeswoman for a party that will no longer be sitting in a bizarre, expectant stasis resting on the assumption that Layton will return, but instead, rollicking toward a leadership race and a by-election in Layton's Toronto-Danforth riding.There are a number of high-profile possible alternatives for party leader. It was for that reason Layton appointed an MP with no long-term leadership goals \u2013 the party will need a figurehead, not a babysitter. No doubt, out of solidarity, the party will move forward cohesively in the short term, but eventually, the questions will come. Who will \u2013 who can \u2013 take Layton's place? What will new voters, driven to the polls by Layton's dogged determination, make of the new alternative? And how well will Turmel perform against an experienced and often fierce government message machine?Before he passed away, Layton penned a letter to Canadians (pdf). In it, he recommended that the NDP hold a leadership race sooner rather than later, perhaps in the New Year. As it did when Layton recommended Turmel, the party will no doubt heed his advice. However, in getting to that point, the NDP will be tested yet again.The fall was always shaping up to be an interesting one for the NDP, but even after Layton's announcement, there was the hope that it would not be such a sad one. The reaction to Layton's death Monday was universally one of grief. It is hard to argue that Canada is not a poorer place without his booming voice of righteousness echoing in through the halls of Parliament.To his last day, Layton encompassed in his personal style everything he wished his party to be: principled; unfailing in character; consistent in the dedication to progressive values; and forever a fighter. In his letter, he again reminded Canadians that a bright future is possible.\"Canada is a great country, one of the hopes of the world. We can be a better one \u2013 a country of greater equality, justice, and opportunity \u2026 Don't let them tell you it can't be done.\"And after thanking and encouraging his caucus, party members, Quebecers and Canada's youth, he signed off:\"My friends, love is better than anger. Hope is better than fear. Optimism is better than despair. So let us be loving, hopeful and optimistic. And we'll change the world.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Jack Layton's legacy to Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-09-24T12:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Over the last decade, there have been a number of surface-level parallels between Canadian and British politics. First, each country replaced a long-standing prime minister with his former finance minister. Then, when each of those in turn gradually drowned under a cascade of leftover grievances and his own failure to unite a divided party, both Canada and Britain turned to their respective opposition Conservatives \u2013 but even then, only just.In 2011, after five years of minority rule, Stephen Harper finally guided his Conservative party into majority territory, opposed and balanced in the House by a party that was once a political afterthought, pushed to prominence by a leader nobody took seriously only weeks before election day. Almost exactly a year earlier, in 2010, a similar narrative played out in Britain, ending with David Cameron's Conservative coalition government.Despite all of that, the realities facing each country when Cameron and Harper were respectively elected were very different \u2013 and remain so. On the one hand, the UK was, and still is, staring at the business end of an economic nightmare in the eurozone, to which so many of its decisions, like those of foreign policy, are weighted. It is also still recovering from the 2008 banking system implosion, suffering high unemployment and grappling with its own faltering economy. On the other hand, as Cameron highlighted in his speech to Canadian Parliament in Ottawa Thursday night, no Canadian bank has yet \"failed or faltered\" during the recession. Canada's economic relationship with the EU is currently focused on an upcoming free trade agreement, and it is determining the best way to handle a resource-rich export economy. On foreign policy, it looks not to Europe, but to the US.Even the two leaders seem to differ in their relationship to conservatism and politics: Harper, the wonkish tactician, bred into western Reformist ideology, and an active politician at a young age, versus Cameron, a former PR brain for a TV company, bred into the ethos of noblesse oblige at Eton.\u00a0Yet, as Cameron spoke to a packed House of Commons, similarities seemed to outweigh differences. Cameron hit home ideas that have become familiar tropes for the Harper Conservatives: the threat of the global economic crisis to the success of Canadian private enterprise; the dangers of Islamist extremism, dampened by Canada's role in Nato missions in Afghanistan and Libya; and the fear of potential government overspending, solved only by continued austerity and deficit reduction.\u00a0It was so much like a Harper speech, that despite the marked differences between the realities of each nation's relationship to various continued global crises, one could have been forgiven for mistaking the two leaders Thursday.In his rhetoric, Cameron sounded as if he'd been dipped in a Harper Prime Ministerial gloss and set on a shelf; or marked as the updated operating software of the ideology that finally, after endless processing, spat out a majority government this spring: a sort of Harper 2.0. He appeared just like all other \"modernised\" politicians, running on an iTunes approach to public policy \u2013 immediately detecting a blip of interest in themes and automatically offering up similar options you might also enjoy \u2013 only this time, smoother, younger, about an inch taller, wearing a pale blue tie, and flying in on a transatlantic commercial red-eye to Terminal 3 at Heathrow.Britons might take note.", "tags": ["David Cameron", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "David Cameron finds right alignment in Canada | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2011-09-28T16:15:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The global battle raging over the Canadian tar sands had a dramatic homecoming on Monday. Hundreds of Canadians \u2013 among them environmentalists, union members and native leaders \u2013 converged on Ottawa's Parliament Hill to protest the Conservative government's aggressive promotion of the Keystone XL pipeline and the Albertan industry widely castigated as the world's most environmentally destructive.In waves, about 200 people crossed a 3ft fence marking a restricted police zone to symbolically deliver a message to Canada's Prime Minister. Most were detained and later released with trespassing tickets. The beat of a native drum kept supporters buoyant, gigantic fake syringes reading \"tar sands junkie\" bobbed in the crowd, and Raging Grannies belted out spirited renditions of classic protest songs with oily twists.The Canadian action heralds a new spirit of defiance in the broader climate change movement. It follows on two weeks of sit-ins at the White House in Washington last month where more than 1,200 people were arrested over Keystone XL \u2013 the TransCanada pipeline that would carry the dirty Alberta oil to Texas refineries. The Washington protesters successfully introduced millions of Americans to their No 1 source for oil imports, putting an ecological-disaster zone the size of Florida on the map; now, their Canadian counterparts showed they were neither silent nor passive on the issue. These are signs that the environmentalist community \u2013 professionalised and tame for too long \u2013 may have discovered a much-needed impetus for civil disobedience.This has accomplished an end possible only when the powerful are confronted by direct action: it has brought to the surface the hidden tensions and costs behind the Keystone XL project, exposing them to public scrutiny. The opposing camps are no longer simply battling for the hearts and minds of North Americans over a pipeline, but on the more essential question of the future of continental energy use. The contending visions offer us a stark choice: to relentlessly drill and dig for the deepest and dirtiest fossil fuels, or to promote a sustainable, cleaner future of renewable power from the sun, wind and waves.Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper's description of the Keystone XL pipeline decision as a \"no-brainer\" is a crude illustration of his government's position: a mixture of hubris and recklessness that embraces an era of extreme energy use and runaway climate change. His friends in the Alberta oil patch have set their hopes on scraping every last dollar's worth of bitumen from the ground: 4-5m barrels a day by the end of the decade, continuing until 97% of oil yet to be developed is gone and untold carbon emissions have been released. Alberta Energy Minister Ron Liepert has expressed the need for more pipeline infrastructure as a provocation: \"By 2020, we may need three Keystones,\" he told the Financial TimesBut the heavy police presence, designed to tackle up to 8,000 protesters, and miles of fence that surrounded Ottawa's Parliament on Monday were a physical manifestation of the Canadian government's growing anxiety. Natural Resources Minister Joe Oliver conceded that the protests are a \"major concern\". Since 2010, as discovered by \"access-to-information\" [freedom of information] requests I have made, the prime minister's office has convened secret high-level meetings involving the cabinet to address the \"escalating pressure\" from the climate movement; further disclosures have been delayed by government officials.New documents released to Friends of the Earth, however, have revealed that US State Department officials contemplated a two-year delay to the pipeline in June 2010; and this was before opposition had reached its current, feverish pitch. Little wonder the Canadian government and oil companies are now frantically mounting a public relations offensive. The natural resources minister is hitting the road for a global promotional tour; TransCanada is breaking lobbying records and hiring a lobbyist with such strong ties to the US government that State Department officials have coached him on the finer points of public relations; and Harper has been cultivating British Prime Minister David Cameron, recently in Canada, as a key ally in the fight against a European environmental regulation that could block tar sands imports and tilt US policy-makers in the same direction.With only months before a decision over the Keystone XL is expected from Secretary of State Clinton, there are signs of a gathering storm of potentially decisive opposition. Protesters in Idaho are being arrested for blocking the shipment to Alberta of tar sands equipment called \"megaloads\"; legal challenges over endangered species that could further tie up the pipeline project are in the works; and there is the makings of a crucial fight over sovereignty between the State Department and native Americans, signalled last week in an anti-Keystone XL accord signed on the Rosebud Sioux reservation. Others plan to be a noisy presence at State Department public hearings, as well as following President Obama's campaign touring and targeting his campaign offices. On 6 November, exactly a year before the next election, thousands plan to encircle the White House in a human chain of protest.The promise of this growing focus for the climate movement, as with the recent Occupy Wall Street, lies partly in its impulse to pick up where the global justice movement left off: zoning in on the spaces of the elite responsible for the crisis, and transforming them into a place of dissent. Routes for pipelines, roads for mega-loads, hallways for lobbyists \u2013 the infrastructure of fossil fuels corporate magnates and their government enablers \u2013 may be turning into the site of historic and necessary confrontation.\u2022 This article originally stated that 8,000 police officers guarded the Parliament in Ottawa on Monday; in fact, a substantial police force designed to cope with up to 8,000 protesters attended. This was amended at 2pm EST (7pm UK time) on 28 September 2011.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Canada", "Oil and gas companies", "Oil", "Oil", "Business", "Climate change", "US domestic policy", "US news", "Obama administration", "Stephen Harper", "Protest", "Activism", "Environment", "Americas", "Keystone XL pipeline"], "title": "Keystone XL pipeline protest stirs in Canada | Martin Lukacs"},{"date": "2011-09-27T12:59:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Once a protected species, Canada geese (Branta canadensis) may soon become a target for hunters. There are certainly so many of them in France that they are beginning to pose a threat to wetland biodiversity. On 6 September, the day before the shooting season opened in France, the National Hunters Federation (FNC) repeated its determination to have the geese put back on the list of waterfowl that can be hunted. But is this the right answer?The Canada goose is the largest goose found in Europe. It was introduced to Britain in the 17th century, then adopted as a game bird on the continent during the last century. In the wild they live 10 to 25 years and are prolific breeders. They are now resident in western Europe and, for reasons that remain obscure, their numbers have started increasing very fast. They are now on a list of 100 invasive species posing a serious threat to biodiversity in Europe.There were only several hundred Canada geese in France at the end of the 1990s. Now there are more than 5,000 spread over at least 58 d\u00e9partements, with half in the Paris area.\"Unlike other wild geese, the Canada goose is quite happy in the suburbs, in parks, on lakes and in marinas,\" says ornithologist Philippe Dubois, who is coordinating a national survey of invasive alien species for France's League for the Protection of Birds (LPO). \"Their droppings really make a mess on lawns and leisure areas, and in swimming pools.\" In 2009 the health risk caused by this pollution led to the temporary closure of an outdoor leisure centre at Cergy-Pontoise, north-west of Paris.If they settle in wilder spots, Canada geese pose other problems. \"They have a strong sense of territory and will prevent other waterfowl from moving into quite a large area round their nest, so they may hinder reproduction by ducks, coots and other goose species,\" Dubois says. He reckons that if the present population dynamic continues, something will have to be done. This would involve a more radical response than the occasional measures taken recently by the National Agency for Hunting and Wildlife (ONCFS), sterilising eggs and culling birds on the orders of the local government representative.In response to a government request for plans for a campaign, the ONCFS recommended a culling role for hunters. But Pierre Migot, its head, pointed out that many people don't want the geese to disappear and a goal needs to be set. So it remains to be seen what fate awaits the Canada goose in France.Fr\u00e9d\u00e9ric Jiguet, an ornithologist at the Mus\u00e9um d'Histoire Naturelle in Paris, has a compromise. \"Maybe they should resume hunting this invasive species,\" he says. \"But in exchange we should take the greylag goose off the game list, at least from August to October.\" In 2010 there were only 150 pairs left in France.This article orginally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Invasive species", "Birds", "Europe"], "title": "Canada geese, an invasive species soon to be culled"},{"date": "2011-09-23T21:44:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After a night in the majestic Fairmont Le Ch\u00e2teau Frontenac in Quebec City \u2013 a quaint old place of narrow, winding streets and Parisian-style cafes, we drove to Tadoussac, almost a ghost town except for the thousands of tourists who come here each year for the whale-watching.At 8.30am, we boarded a boat and 1\u00bd hours later we were at the junction of the Saint Lawrence and Saguenay rivers. The long wait and bitterly cold winds were worth it for different species of whales we saw moving gracefully in the water. Every time a whale was spotted the captain would sail the boat in that direction. There would be a few seconds of amazement and then the moment was gone.The trip only got better, with the most memorable experience at Saint-F\u00e9licien zoo, one of the largest zoos in Qu\u00e9bec, which is dedicated to wildlife conservation. A behind-the-scenes tour took us around the huge open land in a small minibus to see pigs and beavers, American bison and elk. We even saw the face of a black bear metres away from our window.The day ended with a sunset canoe ride on a lake, then we camped in luxurious hut-like tents in an enclosed area of the forest. We had rare and intimate contact with the caribou, who wandered around our campsite. They were completely uninterested in us, contrasting with our enthusiasm to be so close to these beautiful creatures. Our guide told us that not too long ago a lady got up to use the outdoor toilet at 3am and realised there was a bear clawing at the roof once she had locked herself in! The guards had to be called to rescue her. We had no such drama and slept through the night peacefully.\u2022 Frontier Travel (020-8776 8709, frontier-travel.co.uk) offers a one-week wildlife tour including London-Montreal flights with Air Canada, car hire, six nights' hotel accommodation and one night in a Prospector's Tent at Zoo St-F\u00e9licien. Prices start from \u00a31,499pp for 2012. For more information on holidays in Quebec see bonjourquebec.co.uk ", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Travel writing competition", "Wildlife holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Montreal holidays", "Adventure travel", "Quebec"], "title": "Readers' travel writing competition: wildlife trip to Quebec, Canada"},{"date": "2011-07-03T19:07:55Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Let's skip the debate over whether or not Duchess Kate is a style icon. She's not, by the way \u2013 but that misses the point. What she is, rather, is a fashion diplomat. During this, her first foreign tour, she has shown an impressive ability to use her wardrobe as a tool for doing what royals are supposed to do on foreign tours. Her clothes show respect, bring an emotional warmth that strengthens historic and strategic bonds, and send a positive message about the country and family she represents \u2013 not that the protesters in Quebec were necessarily taking any notice of that.Canadian symbols have featured prominently in Kate's looks so far. Her arrival outfit was a navy lace dress \u2013 very chic, her best look so far \u2013 by the designer Erdem, who is Canadian-born but lives and works in London. A smart touch, to reference the historic links between Britain and Canada in a contemporary way. The red maple leaf hat was another respectful nod, and the diamond maple leaf brooch, which she borrowed from the Queen for the trip, served both as a mark of respect to Canada and a way of bringing the Queen into the conversation.The fitted grey dress she wore on Friday was not as pretty as her other outfits, but even this was deliberate. The day would have been Diana, Princess of Wales's 50th birthday, so Kate chose a sombre dress by Catherine Walker, who was a favoured designer, friend and confidante of Diana. It was a classy thing to do: to put herself in the shadows a little, and shift the focus to Diana.Kate's signature look is defined by a sleek, slender silhouette, simple colour, and permanently red-carpet-ready hair. Royals on tour need to be recognisable, and she is: she knows as well as any spin doctor the pitfalls of over-complicating the message. There is not a lot of flair in how she dresses. The fan bag and the sparkly shoes are eye-catching, but a rather obvious way of signifying glamour for evening events. But flair is not what her wardrobe is about. As a diplomat of dress, she is rather impressive.", "tags": ["The Duchess of Cambridge", "UK news", "Monarchy", "Canada", "World news", "Fashion", "Life and style", "Americas"], "title": "Royal fashion: Kate Middleton shows diplomacy in Canada"},{"date": "2011-07-01T18:39:16Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Prince William saw the swearing in of 25 new Canadian citizens on Friday, though he \u2013 prince of Canada that he is \u2013 was not one of them.There were Chinese, Cubans, French, Greeks, Haitians, Romanians and even Madagascan residents swearing an oath of allegiance to his grandmother and to him as one of her heirs and successors, yet if anyone noticed the irony, they did not care to mention it.The prince, with his wife, Duchess Kate, beside him, was guest of honour on Canada Day in Ottawa and tens of thousands turned out to cheer and whoop.From early morning a sea of red and white converged in front of the country's parliament. On what was to become a hot and nearly cloudless day Canadians trudged towards the site, most wearing the national colours, many carrying maple leaf flags in their hair or on their baseball caps or T-shirts.If Canadians are God's doughty people \u2013 and some of them these days his doughy people too \u2013 they were stoically out to enjoy themselves. Some even carried macs, just in case.Across the river, outside the Canadian Museum of Civilization, an appropriate place for the citizenship ceremony in this most civilised nation, there was the first demonstrator of the tour. Dressed in a bear costume and bearing a motto \"Bearskins look better on bears\", she didn't seem to mind being ignored.Inside the museum's hall, lined with giant totem poles, mounties genially posed for photographs with the new citizens while the Canadian air force's string quartet gently strummed the theme from Desert Island Discs like a palm court orchestra \u2013 a strange choice as desert islands are one thing Canada lacks. On television screens more characteristic scenes were shown, most of them seemingly including snow.Two of the new citizens, Romanians Adrian and Florentina Uzea, cradling their baby daughter, Stephanie, were explaining their choice. Both agricultural economists \u2013 Adrian now works for the national organisation of broiler chicken farmers \u2013 they had decided Canada was a safer place to raise their daughter, though they retain their old nationality as well just in case there is a roasting in the Canadian poultry sector.\"In Romania when you decide to have kids you have to think twice, but here you know you can support your family,\" said Florentina. Looking round, she added: \"This is better than I expected \u2026 and yes, it is a thrill. We didn't know the prince would be here until recently.\"\"It's appropriate,\" chipped in her husband. \"Canada was a dominion of Britain, which makes it more special.\"Ceremonies were taking place across the country, from Gander to Whitehorse, the governor general said, swearing in maybe 150,000 new citizens, but only Ottawa had a prince to watch.And soon he was among them, grinning his diffident chipmunk smile, with his wife, a striking vision in white and red, beside him. Her costume, by the Montreal-born designer Erdem Moralioglu, was apparently the one chosen for her engagement photographs by Mario Testino last year \u2013 waste not want not, though hardly an austerity drive. It was topped by a small scarlet cross between a hat and a fascinator crowned with maple leaves and tailed by equally scarlet stilettos.Dutifully, the couple waited while the governor general, David Johnston, read out the oath of citizenship \u2013 first in French \u2013 leading the new citizens as they murmured allegiance to Sa Majest\u00e9 la Reine Elizabeth Deux; and then in English, louder, just to make sure.\"We are grateful you have chosen Canada,\" he said as if they had taken out a life insurance policy, which in a way some probably had. It was a gentle invitation, he said, echoing words of the Queen. Then: \"Do your best for Canada.\"For the royal party it was then on to the more boisterous celebrations across the river and up the hill, a journey partly undertaken in the state landau.Meanwhile, the crowds at the museum agreed the couple were lovely, sweet, gorgeous, a credit to Canada, a country Kate had not visited before.Three characters standing well back from the crowd, bearing posters saying \"No oath to royalty\", \"Democracy not royalty\" and, slightly more cumbersomely, \"Monarchy oaths violate charter freedoms\" were politely ignored \u2013 it is the Canadian way.", "tags": ["Canada", "Prince William", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Monarchy", "UK news", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "William and Kate celebrate Canada Day with its newest citizens"},{"date": "2011-07-01T17:06:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The travelling Kate Middleton catwalk has gone international. For her first such trip as the Duchess of Cambridge she has put together a flawless showing of chic minimalism.She has done so while also re-wearing the cream Reiss engagement dress she was photographed in by Mario Testino. But this time she had rather confidently added a flash of daring red in the form of a disk-style headpiece with maple leaf detail, a nod to her host country, while finishing the outfit with a wicker fan handbag by British designer and government advisor Anya Hindmarch.The bag sold out online in about half an hour after she appeared with it. Sticking to the theme of promoting British labels the Duchess stepped off the plane in Ottawa wearing Erdem. Not only was this beautiful lace dress a brilliantly on-trend choice \u2013 lace has been one of the runaway fashion trends for the past few seasons \u2013 but it was also a perfectly placed gesture as designer Erdem Moralioglu was born in Montreal and is based in London. His clothes are already popular with first ladies Michelle Obama and Samantha Cameron.This particular lace dress, taken from his resort 2012 collection is not yet on sale. This suggests that the Duchess has borrowed it directly from the designer as many celebrities do. It is reported that Middleton has packed 30 outfits for the trip. She wore three in one day on Thursday and despite making some fashion savvy choices there have been no statements released to suggest she is working with a stylist.Middleton now has the power to sell out clothes and make fashion websites crash - as was the case with the recent Shola Reiss dress, which she wore to greet the Obamas in May during their visit to the UK \u2013 in much the same way that people closely watched Princess Diana's wardrobe choices.Before she departed from London to wow Canada, Middleton wore a simple navy Roland Mouret shift dress with a gold button blazer by Canadian label Smythe and a smart Mulberry handbag. This look seemed to be channelling the current minimalism trend, and aside from the slightly air hostess shoes, was a triumph of modern sophistication.Perhaps the only look that felt as if it it belonged to her pre-McQueen blockbuster wedding gown was the swallow print Issa dress she wore with espadrilles to a dinner at the Governor-General's 175 room mansion, Rideau Hall. Something about this rather lacked the chic punch of the other looks but it's a small quibble in an otherwise successful sartorial showing.", "tags": ["Fashion", "The Duchess of Cambridge", "Prince William", "Monarchy", "UK news", "Life and style", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Navy salute: Kate turns on the style in Canada"},{"date": "2011-12-13T19:32:47Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine being Canada. Imagine doing the international walk of shame from the Durban conference and later announcing, hungover with chunks in your hair, wearing whatever you picked off a stranger's floor, and a shoe missing, that you don't care, you are walking out of the Kyoto protocol and the rest of the world can go fry itself.Imagine making this announcement when you're safely home in the nation's capital \u2013 a strange little place called Ottawa, the epicentre of grim, a Canadian Luton on a rainy weekend \u2013 because you were too chicken to do it in Durban since you knew you would be a laughing stock worldwide.Imagine being a Canadian waking up to this news.Imagine being me, being asked by the Guardian to explain why my nice country, famously full of people who spend their days hewing wood and drawing water amid a stream of apologies, has gone all, well, crap. \"Is Canada suddenly being run by the Daily Mail?\" the editor asked, impeccably courteous as always. Oh you Brits, so charming as you insert the knife.And the answer is an honest Canadian yes.Canada is melting. The great joke of Harper sending a weasely \"environment minister\" scuttling home from Durban is that climate change is eating our forests (literally: you can hear a million pine beetles clicking as they chew), turning the icy north to sponge and killing our wildlife. Oil extracted from the Alberta tar sands \u2013 that's \"tar\", not \"oil\" \u2013 is poisoning air and water.Shooting it south via the Keystone pipeline is economic and environmental idiocy. We know this, he knows this but the great joke of everything Harper does is the clueless ideology behind it. Canada was a kindly liberal loser. Harper, an illustrative man, is always making a point when he punishes us.To wit: Muslim women, with full ID, having passed our weird loyalty test (you will be boring and gracefully will you endure boredom), must remove their face veil as they take the citizenship oath in a crowded courtroom. This was decreed on Monday by immigration minister Jason Kenney, a human woodchuck who can't resist a bit of pointless nasty.The Toronto Zoo's gay penguins, Buddy and Pedro, are being split up. Allegedly, the zoo is cleaving to its core mission, which is to breed, and a female penguin is being introduced. I do not suspect Harper of engineering this \u2013 global warming will fix penguins just as it will our grizzlies. But there could not be a better map for Harperland.The gun registry, basically a national logbook of rifle ownership set up after the massacre of 14 young women in Montreal in 1989, is being killed. This will take place close to the anniversary of the slaughter. The data will be erased, despite protests from statisticians, archivists, women, men, the Mounties, local police forces, oh everyone.Why? I don't know, why does the Daily Mail mock fat women for being fat? Because it's fun to do! Quebec, the only province with courage, is enraged. Why deliberately anger the French, so dignified and civilised? Because it's fun to do!Harper does indeed have a Daily Mail plan. He has just signed a border agreement that will let the US department of homeland security know about every Canadian who travels, when, where and with whom. He is \"harmonising\" our food inspection with the Americans, and if you've seen Food Inc, you'll know that means E coli isn't just for meat any more. It's in walnuts, it's in flour, it's in you.He is building a vast prison system to be populated by an American-style mandatory-sentencing plan that even the Americans are abandoning after decades of failure. Harper's social agenda is up next. Gay marriage? Check. Abortion rights? Check. Former prime minister Jean Chr\u00e9tien is even predicting a return to the death penalty.Yes, my country has gone tabloid, full of resentments we didn't even know existed until they were stirred up by this peculiar man. He can't even get his Christmas card right. He sent out his family photo this year, with his wife (looking deeply unhappy as she always does) and children in almost the same clothes as last year but different poses. He won't say why.I suspect he made them pose twice in 2010 \u2013 c'mon, take one for the team, Laureen \u2013 fearing they might not be as obedient in 2011. I'm hoping Canada looks as sullen as a Harper family portrait when they show up to vote in the next election.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Kyoto protocol", "Climate change", "Global climate talks", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Green politics"], "title": "Canada goes tabloid | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2011-12-13T19:32:47Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine being Canada. Imagine doing the international walk of shame from the Durban conference and later announcing, hungover with chunks in your hair, wearing whatever you picked off a stranger's floor, and a shoe missing, that you don't care, you are walking out of the Kyoto protocol and the rest of the world can go fry itself.Imagine making this announcement when you're safely home in the nation's capital \u2013 a strange little place called Ottawa, the epicentre of grim, a Canadian Luton on a rainy weekend \u2013 because you were too chicken to do it in Durban since you knew you would be a laughing stock worldwide.Imagine being a Canadian waking up to this news.Imagine being me, being asked by the Guardian to explain why my nice country, famously full of people who spend their days hewing wood and drawing water amid a stream of apologies, has gone all, well, crap. \"Is Canada suddenly being run by the Daily Mail?\" the editor asked, impeccably courteous as always. Oh you Brits, so charming as you insert the knife.And the answer is an honest Canadian yes.Canada is melting. The great joke of Harper sending a weasely \"environment minister\" scuttling home from Durban is that climate change is eating our forests (literally: you can hear a million pine beetles clicking as they chew), turning the icy north to sponge and killing our wildlife. Oil extracted from the Alberta tar sands \u2013 that's \"tar\", not \"oil\" \u2013 is poisoning air and water.Shooting it south via the Keystone pipeline is economic and environmental idiocy. We know this, he knows this but the great joke of everything Harper does is the clueless ideology behind it. Canada was a kindly liberal loser. Harper, an illustrative man, is always making a point when he punishes us.To wit: Muslim women, with full ID, having passed our weird loyalty test (you will be boring and gracefully will you endure boredom), must remove their face veil as they take the citizenship oath in a crowded courtroom. This was decreed on Monday by immigration minister Jason Kenney, a human woodchuck who can't resist a bit of pointless nasty.The Toronto Zoo's gay penguins, Buddy and Pedro, are being split up. Allegedly, the zoo is cleaving to its core mission, which is to breed, and a female penguin is being introduced. I do not suspect Harper of engineering this \u2013 global warming will fix penguins just as it will our grizzlies. But there could not be a better map for Harperland.The gun registry, basically a national logbook of rifle ownership set up after the massacre of 14 young women in Montreal in 1989, is being killed. This will take place close to the anniversary of the slaughter. The data will be erased, despite protests from statisticians, archivists, women, men, the Mounties, local police forces, oh everyone.Why? I don't know, why does the Daily Mail mock fat women for being fat? Because it's fun to do! Quebec, the only province with courage, is enraged. Why deliberately anger the French, so dignified and civilised? Because it's fun to do!Harper does indeed have a Daily Mail plan. He has just signed a border agreement that will let the US department of homeland security know about every Canadian who travels, when, where and with whom. He is \"harmonising\" our food inspection with the Americans, and if you've seen Food Inc, you'll know that means E coli isn't just for meat any more. It's in walnuts, it's in flour, it's in you.He is building a vast prison system to be populated by an American-style mandatory-sentencing plan that even the Americans are abandoning after decades of failure. Harper's social agenda is up next. Gay marriage? Check. Abortion rights? Check. Former prime minister Jean Chr\u00e9tien is even predicting a return to the death penalty.Yes, my country has gone tabloid, full of resentments we didn't even know existed until they were stirred up by this peculiar man. He can't even get his Christmas card right. He sent out his family photo this year, with his wife (looking deeply unhappy as she always does) and children in almost the same clothes as last year but different poses. He won't say why.I suspect he made them pose twice in 2010 \u2013 c'mon, take one for the team, Laureen \u2013 fearing they might not be as obedient in 2011. I'm hoping Canada looks as sullen as a Harper family portrait when they show up to vote in the next election.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Kyoto protocol", "Climate change", "Global climate talks", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Green politics"], "title": "Canada goes tabloid | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2011-12-02T22:44:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Out here there is no sound. Since the chopper dropped us at the cabin and turned back towards civilisation, its rotor noise receding to a faint echo, we've been on our own. Mountains can often seem ominously silent, like sleeping giants, but this is a whole new level. There are no foreign-tongued murmurs from the piste, no steel edges chattering on the hardpack, not even a low hum from the chairlift. Thick snow coats the vast natural bowl around us, muffling all but the most immediate sounds: my tramping feet; my steady breathing.I'm in the Kootenay mountains of western Canada to sample an intensive six-week course offered by Nonstop, a British company based in nearby Fernie. It's called Master the Mountain and focuses squarely on improving your off-piste skills in skiing or snowboarding. The climax of the course is four days splitboarding (or ski touring) in the Canadian backcountry.Splitboarding is a new movement in winter sports. Take an ordinary snowboard, split it vertically in half, and you have something resembling two fat skis. The idea is to leave the busy lifts behind, hiking up pristine faces of untouched snow using manpower alone. At the top the \"skis\" slot back together to form a normal board for the run down. And as any snowboarder can tell you, nothing beats the feeling of floating sideways through deep powder.Accessing peaks on foot gives you greater freedom to roam than even heli-skiing and, according to professional snowboarder Jeremy Jones, a greater sense of reward. \"You\u00a0get this endorphin buzz on the way up \u2013 the runner's high \u2013 and then you get the adrenaline on the way down,\" he explains.We arrive via a thrilling helicopter ride at Boulder Hut, our modest accommodation for the next three nights. Unlike your typical modern chalet, there's no internet, no TV, not even a telephone; a two-way radio is its only connection to the outside world. Batteries provide the cabin with limited power but most of the energy \u2013 at least in heating and cooking terms \u2013 comes courtesy of the wood burner, where a pot of herbal tea sits permanently stewing. A second stove warms the Casa de los Sue\u00f1os (House of Dreams), a rustic dorm next door in which we'll be sleeping side by side.The hut is run by Mark Yancey, an experienced off-piste guide, and his wife, Sarah. They move into this isolated dwelling each autumn and remain until the spring, when they swap Canada for Alaska. Their two kids, six-year-old Grace and three-year-old Alden, are home-schooled but seem happy enough making new friends among the guests each week and playing in their own private winter wonderland with Rosie, the family's enormous Pyrenean mountain dog.Over a welcome meal of soup and freshly baked bread, our hosts explain the rules of the house and issue each of us with a mug and plastic lunchbox. It's up to us how often they get washed up, and indeed we're expected to pitch in with the rest of the dishes each evening. Out here in the unspoilt depths of British Columbia, all waste needs to be carefully composted or recycled, while calls of nature must be answered at the \"pee tree\", marked with a ribbon, or a simple A-frame outhouse buried beneath several feet of snow, where a chilly toilet seat covers a humble hole in the ground.The following morning we fuel up on huevos rancheros (Mexican-style eggs and tortillas) and fill the lunchboxes with more carbs, including homemade \"energy balls\", an indulgent mix of peanut butter, chocolate and coconut. Not that we need to watch our weight \u2013 we'll be burning up to 5,000 calories during the course of a day's splitboarding.Back in Fernie, the students practised turning their snowboards into skis and attaching the all-important \"skins\" to the base. Once made of seal fur, these days they are essentially strips of sticky carpet, but the effect is the same, allowing your skis to grip the snow when walking uphill.Then we are on our way, hiking in single file up through the trees and on to the stunning upper plateau. Our group, which includes an IT manager from Warrington, a Dutch student, a London-based yoga teacher and an Australian mining expert, boasts varying levels of fitness, but no matter: Mark sets a slow and steady pace and we fall into an easy rhythm behind. I use the time to talk to the others about their experience on the course.\"I was fed up with the usual holidays where you spend half your time feeling rusty,\" says Shane Adams,\u00a0who took a career break to make the journey from Telford to Canada. \"We've had five hours' coaching a day and my snowboarding has really progressed.\"Tuition on tree riding, maintenance, avalanche skills, video analysis are also included, as is a season lift-pass for Fernie are so guests can stay for the rest of the winter if you wish.We plod on, lost in our own thoughts. What makes splitboarding special is the sense of immersion within the landscape, and, as you slowly gain altitude with each upward stride, the run back down the powder face is already being inwardly savoured. They call it \"earning your turns\".Up ahead, Mark has already reached the summit, accompanied by Rosie the dog \u2013 a trotting polar bear in her thick white coat. \"I bought her because they're guardian dogs, and we've got a lot of wolves and bears here in the summer,\" he explains. \"Even when it's minus 25 at night she doesn't want to come inside. But she's turned out to be a really good mountain dog.\"After stripping skins from the skis and fixing our boards back together, we're off. With Rosie bounding excitedly alongside, we drop into the shadow of a north-facing powder face and rapidly gain speed, throwing up rooster tails of light crystals before emerging into the sun-drenched plateau below. The splitboard's flex feels a little different to my regular board but I'm soon used to it, and in conditions of this quality you could surf a canoe.We make several more climbs, each a little less demanding as our limbs begin to tire, before returning exhausted but exhilarated to the hut. Mark, Sarah and the kids claim first dibs in the outdoor hot tub, a Heath Robinson contraption heated via its own wood furnace, and we follow, darting barefoot over the snow as more flakes begin to fall. Squeezing six blokes into a small tin bath and keeping the furnace topped up with logs is a sure-fire way to raise laughter, and the group bonding continues over a fabulous dinner of wild salmon, caught and frozen by Mark's brother in Alaska.Five weeks ago, many of the people around this table had never set foot beyond a manicured piste; now they are confident powder hunters, and talk moves to the next day's challenges.\"Tomorrow we're going to explore a different zone,\" says Mark. \"And, just to warn you, if the snow keeps up then the heli won't be able to fly in to pick you up on Wednesday.\"A collective glance flashes across the warm room. Bring on the snow!\u2022 Nonstop's next Master the Mountain Off-Piste Camp, including splitboarding at Boulder Hut, runs for six weeks from 17 January 2012 (020-7720 6500, nonstopsnow.com). Prices start at \u00a35,495 and include accommodation, food, transfers, a full season lift pass and 20 hours' coaching a week. Two week courses are also available from \u00a31,750pp but don't include splitboarding. Nonstop can arrange return flights from Heathrow to Calgary with Air Canada (aircanada.com) from \u00a3600Ed Blomfield is the editor of Whitelines magazine (whitelines.mpora.com)", "tags": ["Snowboarding", "Canada holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Travel", "Learning holidays", "Extreme sports holidays"], "title": "Splitboarding in Canada"},{"date": "2011-12-13T19:32:47Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine being Canada. Imagine doing the international walk of shame from the Durban conference and later announcing, hungover with chunks in your hair, wearing whatever you picked off a stranger's floor, and a shoe missing, that you don't care, you are walking out of the Kyoto protocol and the rest of the world can go fry itself.Imagine making this announcement when you're safely home in the nation's capital \u2013 a strange little place called Ottawa, the epicentre of grim, a Canadian Luton on a rainy weekend \u2013 because you were too chicken to do it in Durban since you knew you would be a laughing stock worldwide.Imagine being a Canadian waking up to this news.Imagine being me, being asked by the Guardian to explain why my nice country, famously full of people who spend their days hewing wood and drawing water amid a stream of apologies, has gone all, well, crap. \"Is Canada suddenly being run by the Daily Mail?\" the editor asked, impeccably courteous as always. Oh you Brits, so charming as you insert the knife.And the answer is an honest Canadian yes.Canada is melting. The great joke of Harper sending a weasely \"environment minister\" scuttling home from Durban is that climate change is eating our forests (literally: you can hear a million pine beetles clicking as they chew), turning the icy north to sponge and killing our wildlife. Oil extracted from the Alberta tar sands \u2013 that's \"tar\", not \"oil\" \u2013 is poisoning air and water.Shooting it south via the Keystone pipeline is economic and environmental idiocy. We know this, he knows this but the great joke of everything Harper does is the clueless ideology behind it. Canada was a kindly liberal loser. Harper, an illustrative man, is always making a point when he punishes us.To wit: Muslim women, with full ID, having passed our weird loyalty test (you will be boring and gracefully will you endure boredom), must remove their face veil as they take the citizenship oath in a crowded courtroom. This was decreed on Monday by immigration minister Jason Kenney, a human woodchuck who can't resist a bit of pointless nasty.The Toronto Zoo's gay penguins, Buddy and Pedro, are being split up. Allegedly, the zoo is cleaving to its core mission, which is to breed, and a female penguin is being introduced. I do not suspect Harper of engineering this \u2013 global warming will fix penguins just as it will our grizzlies. But there could not be a better map for Harperland.The gun registry, basically a national logbook of rifle ownership set up after the massacre of 14 young women in Montreal in 1989, is being killed. This will take place close to the anniversary of the slaughter. The data will be erased, despite protests from statisticians, archivists, women, men, the Mounties, local police forces, oh everyone.Why? I don't know, why does the Daily Mail mock fat women for being fat? Because it's fun to do! Quebec, the only province with courage, is enraged. Why deliberately anger the French, so dignified and civilised? Because it's fun to do!Harper does indeed have a Daily Mail plan. He has just signed a border agreement that will let the US department of homeland security know about every Canadian who travels, when, where and with whom. He is \"harmonising\" our food inspection with the Americans, and if you've seen Food Inc, you'll know that means E coli isn't just for meat any more. It's in walnuts, it's in flour, it's in you.He is building a vast prison system to be populated by an American-style mandatory-sentencing plan that even the Americans are abandoning after decades of failure. Harper's social agenda is up next. Gay marriage? Check. Abortion rights? Check. Former prime minister Jean Chr\u00e9tien is even predicting a return to the death penalty.Yes, my country has gone tabloid, full of resentments we didn't even know existed until they were stirred up by this peculiar man. He can't even get his Christmas card right. He sent out his family photo this year, with his wife (looking deeply unhappy as she always does) and children in almost the same clothes as last year but different poses. He won't say why.I suspect he made them pose twice in 2010 \u2013 c'mon, take one for the team, Laureen \u2013 fearing they might not be as obedient in 2011. I'm hoping Canada looks as sullen as a Harper family portrait when they show up to vote in the next election.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Kyoto protocol", "Climate change", "Global climate talks", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Green politics"], "title": "Canada goes tabloid | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2011-12-02T22:44:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Out here there is no sound. Since the chopper dropped us at the cabin and turned back towards civilisation, its rotor noise receding to a faint echo, we've been on our own. Mountains can often seem ominously silent, like sleeping giants, but this is a whole new level. There are no foreign-tongued murmurs from the piste, no steel edges chattering on the hardpack, not even a low hum from the chairlift. Thick snow coats the vast natural bowl around us, muffling all but the most immediate sounds: my tramping feet; my steady breathing.I'm in the Kootenay mountains of western Canada to sample an intensive six-week course offered by Nonstop, a British company based in nearby Fernie. It's called Master the Mountain and focuses squarely on improving your off-piste skills in skiing or snowboarding. The climax of the course is four days splitboarding (or ski touring) in the Canadian backcountry.Splitboarding is a new movement in winter sports. Take an ordinary snowboard, split it vertically in half, and you have something resembling two fat skis. The idea is to leave the busy lifts behind, hiking up pristine faces of untouched snow using manpower alone. At the top the \"skis\" slot back together to form a normal board for the run down. And as any snowboarder can tell you, nothing beats the feeling of floating sideways through deep powder.Accessing peaks on foot gives you greater freedom to roam than even heli-skiing and, according to professional snowboarder Jeremy Jones, a greater sense of reward. \"You\u00a0get this endorphin buzz on the way up \u2013 the runner's high \u2013 and then you get the adrenaline on the way down,\" he explains.We arrive via a thrilling helicopter ride at Boulder Hut, our modest accommodation for the next three nights. Unlike your typical modern chalet, there's no internet, no TV, not even a telephone; a two-way radio is its only connection to the outside world. Batteries provide the cabin with limited power but most of the energy \u2013 at least in heating and cooking terms \u2013 comes courtesy of the wood burner, where a pot of herbal tea sits permanently stewing. A second stove warms the Casa de los Sue\u00f1os (House of Dreams), a rustic dorm next door in which we'll be sleeping side by side.The hut is run by Mark Yancey, an experienced off-piste guide, and his wife, Sarah. They move into this isolated dwelling each autumn and remain until the spring, when they swap Canada for Alaska. Their two kids, six-year-old Grace and three-year-old Alden, are home-schooled but seem happy enough making new friends among the guests each week and playing in their own private winter wonderland with Rosie, the family's enormous Pyrenean mountain dog.Over a welcome meal of soup and freshly baked bread, our hosts explain the rules of the house and issue each of us with a mug and plastic lunchbox. It's up to us how often they get washed up, and indeed we're expected to pitch in with the rest of the dishes each evening. Out here in the unspoilt depths of British Columbia, all waste needs to be carefully composted or recycled, while calls of nature must be answered at the \"pee tree\", marked with a ribbon, or a simple A-frame outhouse buried beneath several feet of snow, where a chilly toilet seat covers a humble hole in the ground.The following morning we fuel up on huevos rancheros (Mexican-style eggs and tortillas) and fill the lunchboxes with more carbs, including homemade \"energy balls\", an indulgent mix of peanut butter, chocolate and coconut. Not that we need to watch our weight \u2013 we'll be burning up to 5,000 calories during the course of a day's splitboarding.Back in Fernie, the students practised turning their snowboards into skis and attaching the all-important \"skins\" to the base. Once made of seal fur, these days they are essentially strips of sticky carpet, but the effect is the same, allowing your skis to grip the snow when walking uphill.Then we are on our way, hiking in single file up through the trees and on to the stunning upper plateau. Our group, which includes an IT manager from Warrington, a Dutch student, a London-based yoga teacher and an Australian mining expert, boasts varying levels of fitness, but no matter: Mark sets a slow and steady pace and we fall into an easy rhythm behind. I use the time to talk to the others about their experience on the course.\"I was fed up with the usual holidays where you spend half your time feeling rusty,\" says Shane Adams,\u00a0who took a career break to make the journey from Telford to Canada. \"We've had five hours' coaching a day and my snowboarding has really progressed.\"Tuition on tree riding, maintenance, avalanche skills, video analysis are also included, as is a season lift-pass for Fernie are so guests can stay for the rest of the winter if you wish.We plod on, lost in our own thoughts. What makes splitboarding special is the sense of immersion within the landscape, and, as you slowly gain altitude with each upward stride, the run back down the powder face is already being inwardly savoured. They call it \"earning your turns\".Up ahead, Mark has already reached the summit, accompanied by Rosie the dog \u2013 a trotting polar bear in her thick white coat. \"I bought her because they're guardian dogs, and we've got a lot of wolves and bears here in the summer,\" he explains. \"Even when it's minus 25 at night she doesn't want to come inside. But she's turned out to be a really good mountain dog.\"After stripping skins from the skis and fixing our boards back together, we're off. With Rosie bounding excitedly alongside, we drop into the shadow of a north-facing powder face and rapidly gain speed, throwing up rooster tails of light crystals before emerging into the sun-drenched plateau below. The splitboard's flex feels a little different to my regular board but I'm soon used to it, and in conditions of this quality you could surf a canoe.We make several more climbs, each a little less demanding as our limbs begin to tire, before returning exhausted but exhilarated to the hut. Mark, Sarah and the kids claim first dibs in the outdoor hot tub, a Heath Robinson contraption heated via its own wood furnace, and we follow, darting barefoot over the snow as more flakes begin to fall. Squeezing six blokes into a small tin bath and keeping the furnace topped up with logs is a sure-fire way to raise laughter, and the group bonding continues over a fabulous dinner of wild salmon, caught and frozen by Mark's brother in Alaska.Five weeks ago, many of the people around this table had never set foot beyond a manicured piste; now they are confident powder hunters, and talk moves to the next day's challenges.\"Tomorrow we're going to explore a different zone,\" says Mark. \"And, just to warn you, if the snow keeps up then the heli won't be able to fly in to pick you up on Wednesday.\"A collective glance flashes across the warm room. Bring on the snow!\u2022 Nonstop's next Master the Mountain Off-Piste Camp, including splitboarding at Boulder Hut, runs for six weeks from 17 January 2012 (020-7720 6500, nonstopsnow.com). Prices start at \u00a35,495 and include accommodation, food, transfers, a full season lift pass and 20 hours' coaching a week. Two week courses are also available from \u00a31,750pp but don't include splitboarding. Nonstop can arrange return flights from Heathrow to Calgary with Air Canada (aircanada.com) from \u00a3600Ed Blomfield is the editor of Whitelines magazine (whitelines.mpora.com)", "tags": ["Snowboarding", "Canada holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Travel", "Learning holidays", "Extreme sports holidays"], "title": "Splitboarding in Canada"},{"date": "2011-12-13T02:04:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has pulled out of the Kyoto protocol on climate change, one day after an update was agreed on, saying the accord won't work.The Canadian environment minister, Peter Kent, said Canada was invoking its legal right to withdraw. Kyoto did not represent the way forward for Canada or the world, he said.Canada, Japan and Russia said last year they would not accept new Kyoto commitments, but Canada is the only country to repudiate it altogether.The protocol, initially adopted in Kyoto, Japan, in 1997, is aimed at fighting global warming. Canada's previous Liberal government signed the accord but did little to implement it and current prime minister Stephen Harper's Conservative government never embraced it.\"The Kyoto protocol does not cover the world's largest two emitters, the United States and China, and therefore cannot work,\" Kent said. \"It's now clear that Kyoto is not the path forward to a global solution to climate change. If anything it's an impediment.\"Kent's announcement came a day after marathon climate talks wrapped up in the South African port city of Durban.Negotiators from nearly 200 countries agreed on a deal that sets the world on a path to sign a new climate treaty by 2015 to replace the first Kyoto protocol, whose current provisions expire next year.Durban's accord envisions a new treaty with binding targets for all countries to take effect in 2020.\"[Withdrawing] allows us to continue to create jobs and growth in Canada,\" Kent said.Canada had been expected to pull out and as a result faced international criticism at the Durban talks. Kent had said previously that signing Kyoto was one of the previous government's biggest blunders.Kent said it would save Canada $14bn in penalties for not achieving its Kyoto targets. \"To meet the targets under Kyoto for 2012 would be the equivalent of either removing every car, truck, ATV, tractor, ambulance, police car and vehicle of every kind from Canadian roads or closing down the entire farming and agriculture sector and cutting heat to every home, office, hospital, factory and building in Canada,\" Kent said.Mike Hudema of Greenpeace Canada said in a statement it was a further signal that the Harper government is more concerned about protecting polluters than people.Hannah McKinnon of Climate Action Network Canada said formally withdrawing was a slap in the face of the international community and \"a total abdication of our responsibilities\".An opposition New Democrat MP, Megan Leslie, disputed the figures involved and said there were no penalties under Kyoto. Pulling out saved the Conservatives having to report that Canada was falling short of its targets, she said.\"It's like we're the kid in school who knows they're going to fail the class, so we have to drop it before that actually happens,\" Leslie said.Canada's Conservative government is reluctant to hurt Canada's booming oil sands sector, the country's fastest growing source of greenhouse gases. Canada has the world's third-largest oil reserves, more than 170bn barrels. Daily production of 1.5m barrels from the oil sands is expected to increase to 3.7mn in 2025. Only Saudi Arabia and Venezuela have more reserves. But the enormous amount of energy and water needed in the extraction process increases greenhouse gas emissions.Kent said Canada produced \"barely 2%\" of global emissions. The previous Liberal government had signed on to Kyoto in 1997 without any intention of meeting its targets, he said. Kyoto originally covered countries generating less than 30% of global emissions and that had fallen to 13%. Canada wanted a fair agreement covering all nations.Scientists say that if levels of greenhouse gases continue to rise, eventually the world's climate will reach a tipping point, with irreversible melting of some ice sheets and sea levels rising by several metres.Climate negotiations have been focused on preventing global temperatures rising more than 1.2C (2F) above current levels by the end of this century.", "tags": ["Kyoto protocol", "Canada", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Environment", "Science", "World news"], "title": "Canada pulls out of Kyoto protocol"},{"date": "2011-12-13T19:32:47Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine being Canada. Imagine doing the international walk of shame from the Durban conference and later announcing, hungover with chunks in your hair, wearing whatever you picked off a stranger's floor, and a shoe missing, that you don't care, you are walking out of the Kyoto protocol and the rest of the world can go fry itself.Imagine making this announcement when you're safely home in the nation's capital \u2013 a strange little place called Ottawa, the epicentre of grim, a Canadian Luton on a rainy weekend \u2013 because you were too chicken to do it in Durban since you knew you would be a laughing stock worldwide.Imagine being a Canadian waking up to this news.Imagine being me, being asked by the Guardian to explain why my nice country, famously full of people who spend their days hewing wood and drawing water amid a stream of apologies, has gone all, well, crap. \"Is Canada suddenly being run by the Daily Mail?\" the editor asked, impeccably courteous as always. Oh you Brits, so charming as you insert the knife.And the answer is an honest Canadian yes.Canada is melting. The great joke of Harper sending a weasely \"environment minister\" scuttling home from Durban is that climate change is eating our forests (literally: you can hear a million pine beetles clicking as they chew), turning the icy north to sponge and killing our wildlife. Oil extracted from the Alberta tar sands \u2013 that's \"tar\", not \"oil\" \u2013 is poisoning air and water.Shooting it south via the Keystone pipeline is economic and environmental idiocy. We know this, he knows this but the great joke of everything Harper does is the clueless ideology behind it. Canada was a kindly liberal loser. Harper, an illustrative man, is always making a point when he punishes us.To wit: Muslim women, with full ID, having passed our weird loyalty test (you will be boring and gracefully will you endure boredom), must remove their face veil as they take the citizenship oath in a crowded courtroom. This was decreed on Monday by immigration minister Jason Kenney, a human woodchuck who can't resist a bit of pointless nasty.The Toronto Zoo's gay penguins, Buddy and Pedro, are being split up. Allegedly, the zoo is cleaving to its core mission, which is to breed, and a female penguin is being introduced. I do not suspect Harper of engineering this \u2013 global warming will fix penguins just as it will our grizzlies. But there could not be a better map for Harperland.The gun registry, basically a national logbook of rifle ownership set up after the massacre of 14 young women in Montreal in 1989, is being killed. This will take place close to the anniversary of the slaughter. The data will be erased, despite protests from statisticians, archivists, women, men, the Mounties, local police forces, oh everyone.Why? I don't know, why does the Daily Mail mock fat women for being fat? Because it's fun to do! Quebec, the only province with courage, is enraged. Why deliberately anger the French, so dignified and civilised? Because it's fun to do!Harper does indeed have a Daily Mail plan. He has just signed a border agreement that will let the US department of homeland security know about every Canadian who travels, when, where and with whom. He is \"harmonising\" our food inspection with the Americans, and if you've seen Food Inc, you'll know that means E coli isn't just for meat any more. It's in walnuts, it's in flour, it's in you.He is building a vast prison system to be populated by an American-style mandatory-sentencing plan that even the Americans are abandoning after decades of failure. Harper's social agenda is up next. Gay marriage? Check. Abortion rights? Check. Former prime minister Jean Chr\u00e9tien is even predicting a return to the death penalty.Yes, my country has gone tabloid, full of resentments we didn't even know existed until they were stirred up by this peculiar man. He can't even get his Christmas card right. He sent out his family photo this year, with his wife (looking deeply unhappy as she always does) and children in almost the same clothes as last year but different poses. He won't say why.I suspect he made them pose twice in 2010 \u2013 c'mon, take one for the team, Laureen \u2013 fearing they might not be as obedient in 2011. I'm hoping Canada looks as sullen as a Harper family portrait when they show up to vote in the next election.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Kyoto protocol", "Climate change", "Global climate talks", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Green politics"], "title": "Canada goes tabloid | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2011-12-02T22:44:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Out here there is no sound. Since the chopper dropped us at the cabin and turned back towards civilisation, its rotor noise receding to a faint echo, we've been on our own. Mountains can often seem ominously silent, like sleeping giants, but this is a whole new level. There are no foreign-tongued murmurs from the piste, no steel edges chattering on the hardpack, not even a low hum from the chairlift. Thick snow coats the vast natural bowl around us, muffling all but the most immediate sounds: my tramping feet; my steady breathing.I'm in the Kootenay mountains of western Canada to sample an intensive six-week course offered by Nonstop, a British company based in nearby Fernie. It's called Master the Mountain and focuses squarely on improving your off-piste skills in skiing or snowboarding. The climax of the course is four days splitboarding (or ski touring) in the Canadian backcountry.Splitboarding is a new movement in winter sports. Take an ordinary snowboard, split it vertically in half, and you have something resembling two fat skis. The idea is to leave the busy lifts behind, hiking up pristine faces of untouched snow using manpower alone. At the top the \"skis\" slot back together to form a normal board for the run down. And as any snowboarder can tell you, nothing beats the feeling of floating sideways through deep powder.Accessing peaks on foot gives you greater freedom to roam than even heli-skiing and, according to professional snowboarder Jeremy Jones, a greater sense of reward. \"You\u00a0get this endorphin buzz on the way up \u2013 the runner's high \u2013 and then you get the adrenaline on the way down,\" he explains.We arrive via a thrilling helicopter ride at Boulder Hut, our modest accommodation for the next three nights. Unlike your typical modern chalet, there's no internet, no TV, not even a telephone; a two-way radio is its only connection to the outside world. Batteries provide the cabin with limited power but most of the energy \u2013 at least in heating and cooking terms \u2013 comes courtesy of the wood burner, where a pot of herbal tea sits permanently stewing. A second stove warms the Casa de los Sue\u00f1os (House of Dreams), a rustic dorm next door in which we'll be sleeping side by side.The hut is run by Mark Yancey, an experienced off-piste guide, and his wife, Sarah. They move into this isolated dwelling each autumn and remain until the spring, when they swap Canada for Alaska. Their two kids, six-year-old Grace and three-year-old Alden, are home-schooled but seem happy enough making new friends among the guests each week and playing in their own private winter wonderland with Rosie, the family's enormous Pyrenean mountain dog.Over a welcome meal of soup and freshly baked bread, our hosts explain the rules of the house and issue each of us with a mug and plastic lunchbox. It's up to us how often they get washed up, and indeed we're expected to pitch in with the rest of the dishes each evening. Out here in the unspoilt depths of British Columbia, all waste needs to be carefully composted or recycled, while calls of nature must be answered at the \"pee tree\", marked with a ribbon, or a simple A-frame outhouse buried beneath several feet of snow, where a chilly toilet seat covers a humble hole in the ground.The following morning we fuel up on huevos rancheros (Mexican-style eggs and tortillas) and fill the lunchboxes with more carbs, including homemade \"energy balls\", an indulgent mix of peanut butter, chocolate and coconut. Not that we need to watch our weight \u2013 we'll be burning up to 5,000 calories during the course of a day's splitboarding.Back in Fernie, the students practised turning their snowboards into skis and attaching the all-important \"skins\" to the base. Once made of seal fur, these days they are essentially strips of sticky carpet, but the effect is the same, allowing your skis to grip the snow when walking uphill.Then we are on our way, hiking in single file up through the trees and on to the stunning upper plateau. Our group, which includes an IT manager from Warrington, a Dutch student, a London-based yoga teacher and an Australian mining expert, boasts varying levels of fitness, but no matter: Mark sets a slow and steady pace and we fall into an easy rhythm behind. I use the time to talk to the others about their experience on the course.\"I was fed up with the usual holidays where you spend half your time feeling rusty,\" says Shane Adams,\u00a0who took a career break to make the journey from Telford to Canada. \"We've had five hours' coaching a day and my snowboarding has really progressed.\"Tuition on tree riding, maintenance, avalanche skills, video analysis are also included, as is a season lift-pass for Fernie are so guests can stay for the rest of the winter if you wish.We plod on, lost in our own thoughts. What makes splitboarding special is the sense of immersion within the landscape, and, as you slowly gain altitude with each upward stride, the run back down the powder face is already being inwardly savoured. They call it \"earning your turns\".Up ahead, Mark has already reached the summit, accompanied by Rosie the dog \u2013 a trotting polar bear in her thick white coat. \"I bought her because they're guardian dogs, and we've got a lot of wolves and bears here in the summer,\" he explains. \"Even when it's minus 25 at night she doesn't want to come inside. But she's turned out to be a really good mountain dog.\"After stripping skins from the skis and fixing our boards back together, we're off. With Rosie bounding excitedly alongside, we drop into the shadow of a north-facing powder face and rapidly gain speed, throwing up rooster tails of light crystals before emerging into the sun-drenched plateau below. The splitboard's flex feels a little different to my regular board but I'm soon used to it, and in conditions of this quality you could surf a canoe.We make several more climbs, each a little less demanding as our limbs begin to tire, before returning exhausted but exhilarated to the hut. Mark, Sarah and the kids claim first dibs in the outdoor hot tub, a Heath Robinson contraption heated via its own wood furnace, and we follow, darting barefoot over the snow as more flakes begin to fall. Squeezing six blokes into a small tin bath and keeping the furnace topped up with logs is a sure-fire way to raise laughter, and the group bonding continues over a fabulous dinner of wild salmon, caught and frozen by Mark's brother in Alaska.Five weeks ago, many of the people around this table had never set foot beyond a manicured piste; now they are confident powder hunters, and talk moves to the next day's challenges.\"Tomorrow we're going to explore a different zone,\" says Mark. \"And, just to warn you, if the snow keeps up then the heli won't be able to fly in to pick you up on Wednesday.\"A collective glance flashes across the warm room. Bring on the snow!\u2022 Nonstop's next Master the Mountain Off-Piste Camp, including splitboarding at Boulder Hut, runs for six weeks from 17 January 2012 (020-7720 6500, nonstopsnow.com). Prices start at \u00a35,495 and include accommodation, food, transfers, a full season lift pass and 20 hours' coaching a week. Two week courses are also available from \u00a31,750pp but don't include splitboarding. Nonstop can arrange return flights from Heathrow to Calgary with Air Canada (aircanada.com) from \u00a3600Ed Blomfield is the editor of Whitelines magazine (whitelines.mpora.com)", "tags": ["Snowboarding", "Canada holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Travel", "Learning holidays", "Extreme sports holidays"], "title": "Splitboarding in Canada"},{"date": "2011-12-13T02:04:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has pulled out of the Kyoto protocol on climate change, one day after an update was agreed on, saying the accord won't work.The Canadian environment minister, Peter Kent, said Canada was invoking its legal right to withdraw. Kyoto did not represent the way forward for Canada or the world, he said.Canada, Japan and Russia said last year they would not accept new Kyoto commitments, but Canada is the only country to repudiate it altogether.The protocol, initially adopted in Kyoto, Japan, in 1997, is aimed at fighting global warming. Canada's previous Liberal government signed the accord but did little to implement it and current prime minister Stephen Harper's Conservative government never embraced it.\"The Kyoto protocol does not cover the world's largest two emitters, the United States and China, and therefore cannot work,\" Kent said. \"It's now clear that Kyoto is not the path forward to a global solution to climate change. If anything it's an impediment.\"Kent's announcement came a day after marathon climate talks wrapped up in the South African port city of Durban.Negotiators from nearly 200 countries agreed on a deal that sets the world on a path to sign a new climate treaty by 2015 to replace the first Kyoto protocol, whose current provisions expire next year.Durban's accord envisions a new treaty with binding targets for all countries to take effect in 2020.\"[Withdrawing] allows us to continue to create jobs and growth in Canada,\" Kent said.Canada had been expected to pull out and as a result faced international criticism at the Durban talks. Kent had said previously that signing Kyoto was one of the previous government's biggest blunders.Kent said it would save Canada $14bn in penalties for not achieving its Kyoto targets. \"To meet the targets under Kyoto for 2012 would be the equivalent of either removing every car, truck, ATV, tractor, ambulance, police car and vehicle of every kind from Canadian roads or closing down the entire farming and agriculture sector and cutting heat to every home, office, hospital, factory and building in Canada,\" Kent said.Mike Hudema of Greenpeace Canada said in a statement it was a further signal that the Harper government is more concerned about protecting polluters than people.Hannah McKinnon of Climate Action Network Canada said formally withdrawing was a slap in the face of the international community and \"a total abdication of our responsibilities\".An opposition New Democrat MP, Megan Leslie, disputed the figures involved and said there were no penalties under Kyoto. Pulling out saved the Conservatives having to report that Canada was falling short of its targets, she said.\"It's like we're the kid in school who knows they're going to fail the class, so we have to drop it before that actually happens,\" Leslie said.Canada's Conservative government is reluctant to hurt Canada's booming oil sands sector, the country's fastest growing source of greenhouse gases. Canada has the world's third-largest oil reserves, more than 170bn barrels. Daily production of 1.5m barrels from the oil sands is expected to increase to 3.7mn in 2025. Only Saudi Arabia and Venezuela have more reserves. But the enormous amount of energy and water needed in the extraction process increases greenhouse gas emissions.Kent said Canada produced \"barely 2%\" of global emissions. The previous Liberal government had signed on to Kyoto in 1997 without any intention of meeting its targets, he said. Kyoto originally covered countries generating less than 30% of global emissions and that had fallen to 13%. Canada wanted a fair agreement covering all nations.Scientists say that if levels of greenhouse gases continue to rise, eventually the world's climate will reach a tipping point, with irreversible melting of some ice sheets and sea levels rising by several metres.Climate negotiations have been focused on preventing global temperatures rising more than 1.2C (2F) above current levels by the end of this century.", "tags": ["Kyoto protocol", "Canada", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Environment", "Science", "World news"], "title": "Canada pulls out of Kyoto protocol"},{"date": "2011-12-20T07:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It's time to pitch back into the controversy over Canada's lobbying offensive against proposed European penalties on fuels from tar sands. But this time we're going through the looking glass, with Canada secretly admitting it has no \"credible scientific information on [the tar sands industry's] environmental performance\" and the British government, which has bent over backwards to help Canada protect its highly polluting fuels, giving funding to anti-tar sands campaigners. In addition, we have further confirmation that statements made by Canadian diplomats to UK counterparts are contradicted by reality, and that in promoting tar sands, the Canadians are keeping some pretty unpleasant company.In the midst of all this, the Canadian lobbying effort to block European Union rules that would discriminate against fuels derived from tar sands continues unabated. A key vote in Europe was postponed until early next year, but the issue remains very much on the agenda, and was discussed on Monday by the European Commission's environment committee.To recap, the EU argues that fuels from tar sands - also known as oil sands - should be designated as producing 22% more greenhouse gas emissions than regular crude oil. Canada, whose vast tars sands are the second largest reserve of carbon in the world after Saudi Arabia, don't like this for two reasons. Firstly, it will make the fuels less attractive for European importers and secondly, it will be an official labelling of tar sands fuels as dirty in terms of driving global warming, as well as destroying forests and causing air and water pollution.Canada's environment minister Peter Kent said at the UN climate change summit in Durban, where Canada won the \"colossal fossil\" accolade from outraged campaigners, that: \"There is a disproportionate amount of criticism of the oil sands which is a responsibly and sustainably developed resource, of which we are proud.\" In that light, the recent revelation by Canada's Postmedia News of briefing notes prepared in June for Kent and his team is particularly embarrassing. They stated:Implementing this new monitoring system [of the impact of tar sand exploitation on land, air and water] is an urgent priority to head off threats to the industry, which needs credible scientific information on its environmental performance as soon as possible.Environment Canada also advised that the absence of scientific evidence supporting their claims was affecting the industry's ability to raise capital from and sell into (the) foreign market.So, in private, it seems even the Canadians don't believe their own spin. The UK government, however, seems to have swallowed it whole, which makes another revelation even stranger. Despite the UK having given secret help to Canada to block the European proposals, it has also given almost $60,000 to the anti-tar sands Pembina Institute. That looks very much like a double standard to me.British ministers and officials have been, in the words of Chris Davies, the Liberal Democrat environment spokesman in the European parliament, \"extraordinarily naive ... to take the special pleading by Canada as though it were gospel truth, rather than what it is - an attempt to protect narrow financial interests.\" That was over a claim made by a London-based Canadian diplomat called Sushma Gera to her UK counterparts on 21 October, that \"the US consideration of similar [tar sands] measures had just failed, as it was 'unimplementable'.\"On Friday, the US body Gera was referring to, California's Air Resources Board, showed again just how implementable such measures are in fact by voting unanimously to move forward with its low carbon fuel standard.Finally, for now, let's see if the old adage that \"a man can be known by the company he keeps\" rings true for Canada and its tar sands.Here's Mark Milke, at Canada's Fraser Institute, writing in the European Voice newspaper, in November: The European Commission was wrongheaded when, in October, it singled out oil extracted from Canada's 'tar sands' by proposing a higher carbon-emissions value for it than for other sources of fossil fuel.Milke is the former research director for the Frontier Centre for Public Policy. Here's the FCPP on climate change:As Frederick W. Robertson said: \"There are three things in the world that deserve no mercy, hypocrisy, fraud, and tyranny.\" We have all three in abundance in climate science.In the US, another right-wing think tank, the Heritage Foundation, is keen on tar sands: President Obama was elected by appealing to global warming alarmists, among other groups on the left. Will he cave in to their demands to leave untouched the vast oil sand deposits in Alberta that could provide millions of barrels of oil to fuel economic growth in both countries for decades to come? Development of Alberta's energy sector would be led by US companies, too, thereby boosting growth on both sides of the border.But the Heritage Foundation is not so keen on tackling climate change, despite every nation and science academy on the planet accepting the need for action:The only consensus over the threat of climate change that seems to exist these days is that there is no consensus.There's plenty more of this from, for example the Cato Institute, the Heartland Institute and Italy's Instituto Brunon Leoni, but you get the picture: promoting tar sands fits very snugly with denying the need for action on global warming.Bearing all that in mind, will the British government persist in blocking those European nations who want to brand tar sands fuels as dirty? Will its condemnation of Canada for pulling out of the Kyoto treaty - \"deeply regrettable\" - inform its thinking on tar sands? I hear whispers that the UK position is shifting but, having asked the department for transport, nothing has changed officially.", "tags": ["Environment", "Oil", "Oil", "Tar sands", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "Even Canada doesn't believe its own spin on tar sands | Damian Carrington"},{"date": "2011-12-13T19:32:47Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine being Canada. Imagine doing the international walk of shame from the Durban conference and later announcing, hungover with chunks in your hair, wearing whatever you picked off a stranger's floor, and a shoe missing, that you don't care, you are walking out of the Kyoto protocol and the rest of the world can go fry itself.Imagine making this announcement when you're safely home in the nation's capital \u2013 a strange little place called Ottawa, the epicentre of grim, a Canadian Luton on a rainy weekend \u2013 because you were too chicken to do it in Durban since you knew you would be a laughing stock worldwide.Imagine being a Canadian waking up to this news.Imagine being me, being asked by the Guardian to explain why my nice country, famously full of people who spend their days hewing wood and drawing water amid a stream of apologies, has gone all, well, crap. \"Is Canada suddenly being run by the Daily Mail?\" the editor asked, impeccably courteous as always. Oh you Brits, so charming as you insert the knife.And the answer is an honest Canadian yes.Canada is melting. The great joke of Harper sending a weasely \"environment minister\" scuttling home from Durban is that climate change is eating our forests (literally: you can hear a million pine beetles clicking as they chew), turning the icy north to sponge and killing our wildlife. Oil extracted from the Alberta tar sands \u2013 that's \"tar\", not \"oil\" \u2013 is poisoning air and water.Shooting it south via the Keystone pipeline is economic and environmental idiocy. We know this, he knows this but the great joke of everything Harper does is the clueless ideology behind it. Canada was a kindly liberal loser. Harper, an illustrative man, is always making a point when he punishes us.To wit: Muslim women, with full ID, having passed our weird loyalty test (you will be boring and gracefully will you endure boredom), must remove their face veil as they take the citizenship oath in a crowded courtroom. This was decreed on Monday by immigration minister Jason Kenney, a human woodchuck who can't resist a bit of pointless nasty.The Toronto Zoo's gay penguins, Buddy and Pedro, are being split up. Allegedly, the zoo is cleaving to its core mission, which is to breed, and a female penguin is being introduced. I do not suspect Harper of engineering this \u2013 global warming will fix penguins just as it will our grizzlies. But there could not be a better map for Harperland.The gun registry, basically a national logbook of rifle ownership set up after the massacre of 14 young women in Montreal in 1989, is being killed. This will take place close to the anniversary of the slaughter. The data will be erased, despite protests from statisticians, archivists, women, men, the Mounties, local police forces, oh everyone.Why? I don't know, why does the Daily Mail mock fat women for being fat? Because it's fun to do! Quebec, the only province with courage, is enraged. Why deliberately anger the French, so dignified and civilised? Because it's fun to do!Harper does indeed have a Daily Mail plan. He has just signed a border agreement that will let the US department of homeland security know about every Canadian who travels, when, where and with whom. He is \"harmonising\" our food inspection with the Americans, and if you've seen Food Inc, you'll know that means E coli isn't just for meat any more. It's in walnuts, it's in flour, it's in you.He is building a vast prison system to be populated by an American-style mandatory-sentencing plan that even the Americans are abandoning after decades of failure. Harper's social agenda is up next. Gay marriage? Check. Abortion rights? Check. Former prime minister Jean Chr\u00e9tien is even predicting a return to the death penalty.Yes, my country has gone tabloid, full of resentments we didn't even know existed until they were stirred up by this peculiar man. He can't even get his Christmas card right. He sent out his family photo this year, with his wife (looking deeply unhappy as she always does) and children in almost the same clothes as last year but different poses. He won't say why.I suspect he made them pose twice in 2010 \u2013 c'mon, take one for the team, Laureen \u2013 fearing they might not be as obedient in 2011. I'm hoping Canada looks as sullen as a Harper family portrait when they show up to vote in the next election.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Kyoto protocol", "Climate change", "Global climate talks", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Green politics"], "title": "Canada goes tabloid | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2011-12-02T22:44:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Out here there is no sound. Since the chopper dropped us at the cabin and turned back towards civilisation, its rotor noise receding to a faint echo, we've been on our own. Mountains can often seem ominously silent, like sleeping giants, but this is a whole new level. There are no foreign-tongued murmurs from the piste, no steel edges chattering on the hardpack, not even a low hum from the chairlift. Thick snow coats the vast natural bowl around us, muffling all but the most immediate sounds: my tramping feet; my steady breathing.I'm in the Kootenay mountains of western Canada to sample an intensive six-week course offered by Nonstop, a British company based in nearby Fernie. It's called Master the Mountain and focuses squarely on improving your off-piste skills in skiing or snowboarding. The climax of the course is four days splitboarding (or ski touring) in the Canadian backcountry.Splitboarding is a new movement in winter sports. Take an ordinary snowboard, split it vertically in half, and you have something resembling two fat skis. The idea is to leave the busy lifts behind, hiking up pristine faces of untouched snow using manpower alone. At the top the \"skis\" slot back together to form a normal board for the run down. And as any snowboarder can tell you, nothing beats the feeling of floating sideways through deep powder.Accessing peaks on foot gives you greater freedom to roam than even heli-skiing and, according to professional snowboarder Jeremy Jones, a greater sense of reward. \"You\u00a0get this endorphin buzz on the way up \u2013 the runner's high \u2013 and then you get the adrenaline on the way down,\" he explains.We arrive via a thrilling helicopter ride at Boulder Hut, our modest accommodation for the next three nights. Unlike your typical modern chalet, there's no internet, no TV, not even a telephone; a two-way radio is its only connection to the outside world. Batteries provide the cabin with limited power but most of the energy \u2013 at least in heating and cooking terms \u2013 comes courtesy of the wood burner, where a pot of herbal tea sits permanently stewing. A second stove warms the Casa de los Sue\u00f1os (House of Dreams), a rustic dorm next door in which we'll be sleeping side by side.The hut is run by Mark Yancey, an experienced off-piste guide, and his wife, Sarah. They move into this isolated dwelling each autumn and remain until the spring, when they swap Canada for Alaska. Their two kids, six-year-old Grace and three-year-old Alden, are home-schooled but seem happy enough making new friends among the guests each week and playing in their own private winter wonderland with Rosie, the family's enormous Pyrenean mountain dog.Over a welcome meal of soup and freshly baked bread, our hosts explain the rules of the house and issue each of us with a mug and plastic lunchbox. It's up to us how often they get washed up, and indeed we're expected to pitch in with the rest of the dishes each evening. Out here in the unspoilt depths of British Columbia, all waste needs to be carefully composted or recycled, while calls of nature must be answered at the \"pee tree\", marked with a ribbon, or a simple A-frame outhouse buried beneath several feet of snow, where a chilly toilet seat covers a humble hole in the ground.The following morning we fuel up on huevos rancheros (Mexican-style eggs and tortillas) and fill the lunchboxes with more carbs, including homemade \"energy balls\", an indulgent mix of peanut butter, chocolate and coconut. Not that we need to watch our weight \u2013 we'll be burning up to 5,000 calories during the course of a day's splitboarding.Back in Fernie, the students practised turning their snowboards into skis and attaching the all-important \"skins\" to the base. Once made of seal fur, these days they are essentially strips of sticky carpet, but the effect is the same, allowing your skis to grip the snow when walking uphill.Then we are on our way, hiking in single file up through the trees and on to the stunning upper plateau. Our group, which includes an IT manager from Warrington, a Dutch student, a London-based yoga teacher and an Australian mining expert, boasts varying levels of fitness, but no matter: Mark sets a slow and steady pace and we fall into an easy rhythm behind. I use the time to talk to the others about their experience on the course.\"I was fed up with the usual holidays where you spend half your time feeling rusty,\" says Shane Adams,\u00a0who took a career break to make the journey from Telford to Canada. \"We've had five hours' coaching a day and my snowboarding has really progressed.\"Tuition on tree riding, maintenance, avalanche skills, video analysis are also included, as is a season lift-pass for Fernie are so guests can stay for the rest of the winter if you wish.We plod on, lost in our own thoughts. What makes splitboarding special is the sense of immersion within the landscape, and, as you slowly gain altitude with each upward stride, the run back down the powder face is already being inwardly savoured. They call it \"earning your turns\".Up ahead, Mark has already reached the summit, accompanied by Rosie the dog \u2013 a trotting polar bear in her thick white coat. \"I bought her because they're guardian dogs, and we've got a lot of wolves and bears here in the summer,\" he explains. \"Even when it's minus 25 at night she doesn't want to come inside. But she's turned out to be a really good mountain dog.\"After stripping skins from the skis and fixing our boards back together, we're off. With Rosie bounding excitedly alongside, we drop into the shadow of a north-facing powder face and rapidly gain speed, throwing up rooster tails of light crystals before emerging into the sun-drenched plateau below. The splitboard's flex feels a little different to my regular board but I'm soon used to it, and in conditions of this quality you could surf a canoe.We make several more climbs, each a little less demanding as our limbs begin to tire, before returning exhausted but exhilarated to the hut. Mark, Sarah and the kids claim first dibs in the outdoor hot tub, a Heath Robinson contraption heated via its own wood furnace, and we follow, darting barefoot over the snow as more flakes begin to fall. Squeezing six blokes into a small tin bath and keeping the furnace topped up with logs is a sure-fire way to raise laughter, and the group bonding continues over a fabulous dinner of wild salmon, caught and frozen by Mark's brother in Alaska.Five weeks ago, many of the people around this table had never set foot beyond a manicured piste; now they are confident powder hunters, and talk moves to the next day's challenges.\"Tomorrow we're going to explore a different zone,\" says Mark. \"And, just to warn you, if the snow keeps up then the heli won't be able to fly in to pick you up on Wednesday.\"A collective glance flashes across the warm room. Bring on the snow!\u2022 Nonstop's next Master the Mountain Off-Piste Camp, including splitboarding at Boulder Hut, runs for six weeks from 17 January 2012 (020-7720 6500, nonstopsnow.com). Prices start at \u00a35,495 and include accommodation, food, transfers, a full season lift pass and 20 hours' coaching a week. Two week courses are also available from \u00a31,750pp but don't include splitboarding. Nonstop can arrange return flights from Heathrow to Calgary with Air Canada (aircanada.com) from \u00a3600Ed Blomfield is the editor of Whitelines magazine (whitelines.mpora.com)", "tags": ["Snowboarding", "Canada holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Travel", "Learning holidays", "Extreme sports holidays"], "title": "Splitboarding in Canada"},{"date": "2011-12-13T02:04:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has pulled out of the Kyoto protocol on climate change, one day after an update was agreed on, saying the accord won't work.The Canadian environment minister, Peter Kent, said Canada was invoking its legal right to withdraw. Kyoto did not represent the way forward for Canada or the world, he said.Canada, Japan and Russia said last year they would not accept new Kyoto commitments, but Canada is the only country to repudiate it altogether.The protocol, initially adopted in Kyoto, Japan, in 1997, is aimed at fighting global warming. Canada's previous Liberal government signed the accord but did little to implement it and current prime minister Stephen Harper's Conservative government never embraced it.\"The Kyoto protocol does not cover the world's largest two emitters, the United States and China, and therefore cannot work,\" Kent said. \"It's now clear that Kyoto is not the path forward to a global solution to climate change. If anything it's an impediment.\"Kent's announcement came a day after marathon climate talks wrapped up in the South African port city of Durban.Negotiators from nearly 200 countries agreed on a deal that sets the world on a path to sign a new climate treaty by 2015 to replace the first Kyoto protocol, whose current provisions expire next year.Durban's accord envisions a new treaty with binding targets for all countries to take effect in 2020.\"[Withdrawing] allows us to continue to create jobs and growth in Canada,\" Kent said.Canada had been expected to pull out and as a result faced international criticism at the Durban talks. Kent had said previously that signing Kyoto was one of the previous government's biggest blunders.Kent said it would save Canada $14bn in penalties for not achieving its Kyoto targets. \"To meet the targets under Kyoto for 2012 would be the equivalent of either removing every car, truck, ATV, tractor, ambulance, police car and vehicle of every kind from Canadian roads or closing down the entire farming and agriculture sector and cutting heat to every home, office, hospital, factory and building in Canada,\" Kent said.Mike Hudema of Greenpeace Canada said in a statement it was a further signal that the Harper government is more concerned about protecting polluters than people.Hannah McKinnon of Climate Action Network Canada said formally withdrawing was a slap in the face of the international community and \"a total abdication of our responsibilities\".An opposition New Democrat MP, Megan Leslie, disputed the figures involved and said there were no penalties under Kyoto. Pulling out saved the Conservatives having to report that Canada was falling short of its targets, she said.\"It's like we're the kid in school who knows they're going to fail the class, so we have to drop it before that actually happens,\" Leslie said.Canada's Conservative government is reluctant to hurt Canada's booming oil sands sector, the country's fastest growing source of greenhouse gases. Canada has the world's third-largest oil reserves, more than 170bn barrels. Daily production of 1.5m barrels from the oil sands is expected to increase to 3.7mn in 2025. Only Saudi Arabia and Venezuela have more reserves. But the enormous amount of energy and water needed in the extraction process increases greenhouse gas emissions.Kent said Canada produced \"barely 2%\" of global emissions. The previous Liberal government had signed on to Kyoto in 1997 without any intention of meeting its targets, he said. Kyoto originally covered countries generating less than 30% of global emissions and that had fallen to 13%. Canada wanted a fair agreement covering all nations.Scientists say that if levels of greenhouse gases continue to rise, eventually the world's climate will reach a tipping point, with irreversible melting of some ice sheets and sea levels rising by several metres.Climate negotiations have been focused on preventing global temperatures rising more than 1.2C (2F) above current levels by the end of this century.", "tags": ["Kyoto protocol", "Canada", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Environment", "Science", "World news"], "title": "Canada pulls out of Kyoto protocol"},{"date": "2011-12-20T07:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It's time to pitch back into the controversy over Canada's lobbying offensive against proposed European penalties on fuels from tar sands. But this time we're going through the looking glass, with Canada secretly admitting it has no \"credible scientific information on [the tar sands industry's] environmental performance\" and the British government, which has bent over backwards to help Canada protect its highly polluting fuels, giving funding to anti-tar sands campaigners. In addition, we have further confirmation that statements made by Canadian diplomats to UK counterparts are contradicted by reality, and that in promoting tar sands, the Canadians are keeping some pretty unpleasant company.In the midst of all this, the Canadian lobbying effort to block European Union rules that would discriminate against fuels derived from tar sands continues unabated. A key vote in Europe was postponed until early next year, but the issue remains very much on the agenda, and was discussed on Monday by the European Commission's environment committee.To recap, the EU argues that fuels from tar sands - also known as oil sands - should be designated as producing 22% more greenhouse gas emissions than regular crude oil. Canada, whose vast tars sands are the second largest reserve of carbon in the world after Saudi Arabia, don't like this for two reasons. Firstly, it will make the fuels less attractive for European importers and secondly, it will be an official labelling of tar sands fuels as dirty in terms of driving global warming, as well as destroying forests and causing air and water pollution.Canada's environment minister Peter Kent said at the UN climate change summit in Durban, where Canada won the \"colossal fossil\" accolade from outraged campaigners, that: \"There is a disproportionate amount of criticism of the oil sands which is a responsibly and sustainably developed resource, of which we are proud.\" In that light, the recent revelation by Canada's Postmedia News of briefing notes prepared in June for Kent and his team is particularly embarrassing. They stated:Implementing this new monitoring system [of the impact of tar sand exploitation on land, air and water] is an urgent priority to head off threats to the industry, which needs credible scientific information on its environmental performance as soon as possible.Environment Canada also advised that the absence of scientific evidence supporting their claims was affecting the industry's ability to raise capital from and sell into (the) foreign market.So, in private, it seems even the Canadians don't believe their own spin. The UK government, however, seems to have swallowed it whole, which makes another revelation even stranger. Despite the UK having given secret help to Canada to block the European proposals, it has also given almost $60,000 to the anti-tar sands Pembina Institute. That looks very much like a double standard to me.British ministers and officials have been, in the words of Chris Davies, the Liberal Democrat environment spokesman in the European parliament, \"extraordinarily naive ... to take the special pleading by Canada as though it were gospel truth, rather than what it is - an attempt to protect narrow financial interests.\" That was over a claim made by a London-based Canadian diplomat called Sushma Gera to her UK counterparts on 21 October, that \"the US consideration of similar [tar sands] measures had just failed, as it was 'unimplementable'.\"On Friday, the US body Gera was referring to, California's Air Resources Board, showed again just how implementable such measures are in fact by voting unanimously to move forward with its low carbon fuel standard.Finally, for now, let's see if the old adage that \"a man can be known by the company he keeps\" rings true for Canada and its tar sands.Here's Mark Milke, at Canada's Fraser Institute, writing in the European Voice newspaper, in November: The European Commission was wrongheaded when, in October, it singled out oil extracted from Canada's 'tar sands' by proposing a higher carbon-emissions value for it than for other sources of fossil fuel.Milke is the former research director for the Frontier Centre for Public Policy. Here's the FCPP on climate change:As Frederick W. Robertson said: \"There are three things in the world that deserve no mercy, hypocrisy, fraud, and tyranny.\" We have all three in abundance in climate science.In the US, another right-wing think tank, the Heritage Foundation, is keen on tar sands: President Obama was elected by appealing to global warming alarmists, among other groups on the left. Will he cave in to their demands to leave untouched the vast oil sand deposits in Alberta that could provide millions of barrels of oil to fuel economic growth in both countries for decades to come? Development of Alberta's energy sector would be led by US companies, too, thereby boosting growth on both sides of the border.But the Heritage Foundation is not so keen on tackling climate change, despite every nation and science academy on the planet accepting the need for action:The only consensus over the threat of climate change that seems to exist these days is that there is no consensus.There's plenty more of this from, for example the Cato Institute, the Heartland Institute and Italy's Instituto Brunon Leoni, but you get the picture: promoting tar sands fits very snugly with denying the need for action on global warming.Bearing all that in mind, will the British government persist in blocking those European nations who want to brand tar sands fuels as dirty? Will its condemnation of Canada for pulling out of the Kyoto treaty - \"deeply regrettable\" - inform its thinking on tar sands? I hear whispers that the UK position is shifting but, having asked the department for transport, nothing has changed officially.", "tags": ["Environment", "Oil", "Oil", "Tar sands", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "Even Canada doesn't believe its own spin on tar sands | Damian Carrington"},{"date": "2011-12-12T21:38:20Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Muslim women will no longer be able to cover their faces as they take Canadian citizenship after the country's immigration minister announced a ban on anyone wearing the niqab \u2013 the face veil \u2013 or burqa \u2013 full body and face covering \u2013 while taking the oath of citizenship.He said that he had received complaints from citizenship judges who had claimed that it was difficult to ensure that individuals whose faces were covered were actually reciting the oath.\"They told me last month that it's a fairly common problem. Every week, in every region of the country, we're dealing with situations where applicants arrive with a veil on,\" said Jason Kenney, the minister of citizenship and immigration.\"Frankly, I found it bizarre that the rules allowed people to take the oath with a veil on.\"He added that the move was also not simply a practical measure, saying: \"It is a matter of deep principle that goes to the heart of our identity and our values of openness and equality.\"Kenney said the oath of citizenship has to be done freely and openly and under equal conditions.The announcement was made in the French-speaking province of Quebec, where a law passed last year banned the wearing of any face cover while applying for government services in the province.Legislation that would force individuals to show their face in government-funded institutions is also currently being considered in Quebec.Canada's supreme court last week also heard arguments in a case where a Muslim woman wants to testify while wearing a niqab, pitting her right of religious freedom against her alleged rapist's right to face his accuser in the trial.Europe's first ban on face veils came was introduced in April in France, where anyone wearing the niqab or burqa in public faces a fine or lessons in French citizenship.In September, a judge in Meaux fined two French women for wearing the niqab \u2013 the first sanction since France banned Islamic full-face veils in April.", "tags": ["Canada", "Islam", "World news", "Americas", "Women", "Life and style", "Islamic veil"], "title": "Burqa wearing banned in Canada for those taking citizenship oath"},{"date": "2011-12-13T19:32:47Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine being Canada. Imagine doing the international walk of shame from the Durban conference and later announcing, hungover with chunks in your hair, wearing whatever you picked off a stranger's floor, and a shoe missing, that you don't care, you are walking out of the Kyoto protocol and the rest of the world can go fry itself.Imagine making this announcement when you're safely home in the nation's capital \u2013 a strange little place called Ottawa, the epicentre of grim, a Canadian Luton on a rainy weekend \u2013 because you were too chicken to do it in Durban since you knew you would be a laughing stock worldwide.Imagine being a Canadian waking up to this news.Imagine being me, being asked by the Guardian to explain why my nice country, famously full of people who spend their days hewing wood and drawing water amid a stream of apologies, has gone all, well, crap. \"Is Canada suddenly being run by the Daily Mail?\" the editor asked, impeccably courteous as always. Oh you Brits, so charming as you insert the knife.And the answer is an honest Canadian yes.Canada is melting. The great joke of Harper sending a weasely \"environment minister\" scuttling home from Durban is that climate change is eating our forests (literally: you can hear a million pine beetles clicking as they chew), turning the icy north to sponge and killing our wildlife. Oil extracted from the Alberta tar sands \u2013 that's \"tar\", not \"oil\" \u2013 is poisoning air and water.Shooting it south via the Keystone pipeline is economic and environmental idiocy. We know this, he knows this but the great joke of everything Harper does is the clueless ideology behind it. Canada was a kindly liberal loser. Harper, an illustrative man, is always making a point when he punishes us.To wit: Muslim women, with full ID, having passed our weird loyalty test (you will be boring and gracefully will you endure boredom), must remove their face veil as they take the citizenship oath in a crowded courtroom. This was decreed on Monday by immigration minister Jason Kenney, a human woodchuck who can't resist a bit of pointless nasty.The Toronto Zoo's gay penguins, Buddy and Pedro, are being split up. Allegedly, the zoo is cleaving to its core mission, which is to breed, and a female penguin is being introduced. I do not suspect Harper of engineering this \u2013 global warming will fix penguins just as it will our grizzlies. But there could not be a better map for Harperland.The gun registry, basically a national logbook of rifle ownership set up after the massacre of 14 young women in Montreal in 1989, is being killed. This will take place close to the anniversary of the slaughter. The data will be erased, despite protests from statisticians, archivists, women, men, the Mounties, local police forces, oh everyone.Why? I don't know, why does the Daily Mail mock fat women for being fat? Because it's fun to do! Quebec, the only province with courage, is enraged. Why deliberately anger the French, so dignified and civilised? Because it's fun to do!Harper does indeed have a Daily Mail plan. He has just signed a border agreement that will let the US department of homeland security know about every Canadian who travels, when, where and with whom. He is \"harmonising\" our food inspection with the Americans, and if you've seen Food Inc, you'll know that means E coli isn't just for meat any more. It's in walnuts, it's in flour, it's in you.He is building a vast prison system to be populated by an American-style mandatory-sentencing plan that even the Americans are abandoning after decades of failure. Harper's social agenda is up next. Gay marriage? Check. Abortion rights? Check. Former prime minister Jean Chr\u00e9tien is even predicting a return to the death penalty.Yes, my country has gone tabloid, full of resentments we didn't even know existed until they were stirred up by this peculiar man. He can't even get his Christmas card right. He sent out his family photo this year, with his wife (looking deeply unhappy as she always does) and children in almost the same clothes as last year but different poses. He won't say why.I suspect he made them pose twice in 2010 \u2013 c'mon, take one for the team, Laureen \u2013 fearing they might not be as obedient in 2011. I'm hoping Canada looks as sullen as a Harper family portrait when they show up to vote in the next election.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Kyoto protocol", "Climate change", "Global climate talks", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Green politics"], "title": "Canada goes tabloid | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2011-12-02T22:44:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Out here there is no sound. Since the chopper dropped us at the cabin and turned back towards civilisation, its rotor noise receding to a faint echo, we've been on our own. Mountains can often seem ominously silent, like sleeping giants, but this is a whole new level. There are no foreign-tongued murmurs from the piste, no steel edges chattering on the hardpack, not even a low hum from the chairlift. Thick snow coats the vast natural bowl around us, muffling all but the most immediate sounds: my tramping feet; my steady breathing.I'm in the Kootenay mountains of western Canada to sample an intensive six-week course offered by Nonstop, a British company based in nearby Fernie. It's called Master the Mountain and focuses squarely on improving your off-piste skills in skiing or snowboarding. The climax of the course is four days splitboarding (or ski touring) in the Canadian backcountry.Splitboarding is a new movement in winter sports. Take an ordinary snowboard, split it vertically in half, and you have something resembling two fat skis. The idea is to leave the busy lifts behind, hiking up pristine faces of untouched snow using manpower alone. At the top the \"skis\" slot back together to form a normal board for the run down. And as any snowboarder can tell you, nothing beats the feeling of floating sideways through deep powder.Accessing peaks on foot gives you greater freedom to roam than even heli-skiing and, according to professional snowboarder Jeremy Jones, a greater sense of reward. \"You\u00a0get this endorphin buzz on the way up \u2013 the runner's high \u2013 and then you get the adrenaline on the way down,\" he explains.We arrive via a thrilling helicopter ride at Boulder Hut, our modest accommodation for the next three nights. Unlike your typical modern chalet, there's no internet, no TV, not even a telephone; a two-way radio is its only connection to the outside world. Batteries provide the cabin with limited power but most of the energy \u2013 at least in heating and cooking terms \u2013 comes courtesy of the wood burner, where a pot of herbal tea sits permanently stewing. A second stove warms the Casa de los Sue\u00f1os (House of Dreams), a rustic dorm next door in which we'll be sleeping side by side.The hut is run by Mark Yancey, an experienced off-piste guide, and his wife, Sarah. They move into this isolated dwelling each autumn and remain until the spring, when they swap Canada for Alaska. Their two kids, six-year-old Grace and three-year-old Alden, are home-schooled but seem happy enough making new friends among the guests each week and playing in their own private winter wonderland with Rosie, the family's enormous Pyrenean mountain dog.Over a welcome meal of soup and freshly baked bread, our hosts explain the rules of the house and issue each of us with a mug and plastic lunchbox. It's up to us how often they get washed up, and indeed we're expected to pitch in with the rest of the dishes each evening. Out here in the unspoilt depths of British Columbia, all waste needs to be carefully composted or recycled, while calls of nature must be answered at the \"pee tree\", marked with a ribbon, or a simple A-frame outhouse buried beneath several feet of snow, where a chilly toilet seat covers a humble hole in the ground.The following morning we fuel up on huevos rancheros (Mexican-style eggs and tortillas) and fill the lunchboxes with more carbs, including homemade \"energy balls\", an indulgent mix of peanut butter, chocolate and coconut. Not that we need to watch our weight \u2013 we'll be burning up to 5,000 calories during the course of a day's splitboarding.Back in Fernie, the students practised turning their snowboards into skis and attaching the all-important \"skins\" to the base. Once made of seal fur, these days they are essentially strips of sticky carpet, but the effect is the same, allowing your skis to grip the snow when walking uphill.Then we are on our way, hiking in single file up through the trees and on to the stunning upper plateau. Our group, which includes an IT manager from Warrington, a Dutch student, a London-based yoga teacher and an Australian mining expert, boasts varying levels of fitness, but no matter: Mark sets a slow and steady pace and we fall into an easy rhythm behind. I use the time to talk to the others about their experience on the course.\"I was fed up with the usual holidays where you spend half your time feeling rusty,\" says Shane Adams,\u00a0who took a career break to make the journey from Telford to Canada. \"We've had five hours' coaching a day and my snowboarding has really progressed.\"Tuition on tree riding, maintenance, avalanche skills, video analysis are also included, as is a season lift-pass for Fernie are so guests can stay for the rest of the winter if you wish.We plod on, lost in our own thoughts. What makes splitboarding special is the sense of immersion within the landscape, and, as you slowly gain altitude with each upward stride, the run back down the powder face is already being inwardly savoured. They call it \"earning your turns\".Up ahead, Mark has already reached the summit, accompanied by Rosie the dog \u2013 a trotting polar bear in her thick white coat. \"I bought her because they're guardian dogs, and we've got a lot of wolves and bears here in the summer,\" he explains. \"Even when it's minus 25 at night she doesn't want to come inside. But she's turned out to be a really good mountain dog.\"After stripping skins from the skis and fixing our boards back together, we're off. With Rosie bounding excitedly alongside, we drop into the shadow of a north-facing powder face and rapidly gain speed, throwing up rooster tails of light crystals before emerging into the sun-drenched plateau below. The splitboard's flex feels a little different to my regular board but I'm soon used to it, and in conditions of this quality you could surf a canoe.We make several more climbs, each a little less demanding as our limbs begin to tire, before returning exhausted but exhilarated to the hut. Mark, Sarah and the kids claim first dibs in the outdoor hot tub, a Heath Robinson contraption heated via its own wood furnace, and we follow, darting barefoot over the snow as more flakes begin to fall. Squeezing six blokes into a small tin bath and keeping the furnace topped up with logs is a sure-fire way to raise laughter, and the group bonding continues over a fabulous dinner of wild salmon, caught and frozen by Mark's brother in Alaska.Five weeks ago, many of the people around this table had never set foot beyond a manicured piste; now they are confident powder hunters, and talk moves to the next day's challenges.\"Tomorrow we're going to explore a different zone,\" says Mark. \"And, just to warn you, if the snow keeps up then the heli won't be able to fly in to pick you up on Wednesday.\"A collective glance flashes across the warm room. Bring on the snow!\u2022 Nonstop's next Master the Mountain Off-Piste Camp, including splitboarding at Boulder Hut, runs for six weeks from 17 January 2012 (020-7720 6500, nonstopsnow.com). Prices start at \u00a35,495 and include accommodation, food, transfers, a full season lift pass and 20 hours' coaching a week. Two week courses are also available from \u00a31,750pp but don't include splitboarding. Nonstop can arrange return flights from Heathrow to Calgary with Air Canada (aircanada.com) from \u00a3600Ed Blomfield is the editor of Whitelines magazine (whitelines.mpora.com)", "tags": ["Snowboarding", "Canada holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Travel", "Learning holidays", "Extreme sports holidays"], "title": "Splitboarding in Canada"},{"date": "2011-12-13T02:04:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has pulled out of the Kyoto protocol on climate change, one day after an update was agreed on, saying the accord won't work.The Canadian environment minister, Peter Kent, said Canada was invoking its legal right to withdraw. Kyoto did not represent the way forward for Canada or the world, he said.Canada, Japan and Russia said last year they would not accept new Kyoto commitments, but Canada is the only country to repudiate it altogether.The protocol, initially adopted in Kyoto, Japan, in 1997, is aimed at fighting global warming. Canada's previous Liberal government signed the accord but did little to implement it and current prime minister Stephen Harper's Conservative government never embraced it.\"The Kyoto protocol does not cover the world's largest two emitters, the United States and China, and therefore cannot work,\" Kent said. \"It's now clear that Kyoto is not the path forward to a global solution to climate change. If anything it's an impediment.\"Kent's announcement came a day after marathon climate talks wrapped up in the South African port city of Durban.Negotiators from nearly 200 countries agreed on a deal that sets the world on a path to sign a new climate treaty by 2015 to replace the first Kyoto protocol, whose current provisions expire next year.Durban's accord envisions a new treaty with binding targets for all countries to take effect in 2020.\"[Withdrawing] allows us to continue to create jobs and growth in Canada,\" Kent said.Canada had been expected to pull out and as a result faced international criticism at the Durban talks. Kent had said previously that signing Kyoto was one of the previous government's biggest blunders.Kent said it would save Canada $14bn in penalties for not achieving its Kyoto targets. \"To meet the targets under Kyoto for 2012 would be the equivalent of either removing every car, truck, ATV, tractor, ambulance, police car and vehicle of every kind from Canadian roads or closing down the entire farming and agriculture sector and cutting heat to every home, office, hospital, factory and building in Canada,\" Kent said.Mike Hudema of Greenpeace Canada said in a statement it was a further signal that the Harper government is more concerned about protecting polluters than people.Hannah McKinnon of Climate Action Network Canada said formally withdrawing was a slap in the face of the international community and \"a total abdication of our responsibilities\".An opposition New Democrat MP, Megan Leslie, disputed the figures involved and said there were no penalties under Kyoto. Pulling out saved the Conservatives having to report that Canada was falling short of its targets, she said.\"It's like we're the kid in school who knows they're going to fail the class, so we have to drop it before that actually happens,\" Leslie said.Canada's Conservative government is reluctant to hurt Canada's booming oil sands sector, the country's fastest growing source of greenhouse gases. Canada has the world's third-largest oil reserves, more than 170bn barrels. Daily production of 1.5m barrels from the oil sands is expected to increase to 3.7mn in 2025. Only Saudi Arabia and Venezuela have more reserves. But the enormous amount of energy and water needed in the extraction process increases greenhouse gas emissions.Kent said Canada produced \"barely 2%\" of global emissions. The previous Liberal government had signed on to Kyoto in 1997 without any intention of meeting its targets, he said. Kyoto originally covered countries generating less than 30% of global emissions and that had fallen to 13%. Canada wanted a fair agreement covering all nations.Scientists say that if levels of greenhouse gases continue to rise, eventually the world's climate will reach a tipping point, with irreversible melting of some ice sheets and sea levels rising by several metres.Climate negotiations have been focused on preventing global temperatures rising more than 1.2C (2F) above current levels by the end of this century.", "tags": ["Kyoto protocol", "Canada", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Environment", "Science", "World news"], "title": "Canada pulls out of Kyoto protocol"},{"date": "2011-12-20T07:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It's time to pitch back into the controversy over Canada's lobbying offensive against proposed European penalties on fuels from tar sands. But this time we're going through the looking glass, with Canada secretly admitting it has no \"credible scientific information on [the tar sands industry's] environmental performance\" and the British government, which has bent over backwards to help Canada protect its highly polluting fuels, giving funding to anti-tar sands campaigners. In addition, we have further confirmation that statements made by Canadian diplomats to UK counterparts are contradicted by reality, and that in promoting tar sands, the Canadians are keeping some pretty unpleasant company.In the midst of all this, the Canadian lobbying effort to block European Union rules that would discriminate against fuels derived from tar sands continues unabated. A key vote in Europe was postponed until early next year, but the issue remains very much on the agenda, and was discussed on Monday by the European Commission's environment committee.To recap, the EU argues that fuels from tar sands - also known as oil sands - should be designated as producing 22% more greenhouse gas emissions than regular crude oil. Canada, whose vast tars sands are the second largest reserve of carbon in the world after Saudi Arabia, don't like this for two reasons. Firstly, it will make the fuels less attractive for European importers and secondly, it will be an official labelling of tar sands fuels as dirty in terms of driving global warming, as well as destroying forests and causing air and water pollution.Canada's environment minister Peter Kent said at the UN climate change summit in Durban, where Canada won the \"colossal fossil\" accolade from outraged campaigners, that: \"There is a disproportionate amount of criticism of the oil sands which is a responsibly and sustainably developed resource, of which we are proud.\" In that light, the recent revelation by Canada's Postmedia News of briefing notes prepared in June for Kent and his team is particularly embarrassing. They stated:Implementing this new monitoring system [of the impact of tar sand exploitation on land, air and water] is an urgent priority to head off threats to the industry, which needs credible scientific information on its environmental performance as soon as possible.Environment Canada also advised that the absence of scientific evidence supporting their claims was affecting the industry's ability to raise capital from and sell into (the) foreign market.So, in private, it seems even the Canadians don't believe their own spin. The UK government, however, seems to have swallowed it whole, which makes another revelation even stranger. Despite the UK having given secret help to Canada to block the European proposals, it has also given almost $60,000 to the anti-tar sands Pembina Institute. That looks very much like a double standard to me.British ministers and officials have been, in the words of Chris Davies, the Liberal Democrat environment spokesman in the European parliament, \"extraordinarily naive ... to take the special pleading by Canada as though it were gospel truth, rather than what it is - an attempt to protect narrow financial interests.\" That was over a claim made by a London-based Canadian diplomat called Sushma Gera to her UK counterparts on 21 October, that \"the US consideration of similar [tar sands] measures had just failed, as it was 'unimplementable'.\"On Friday, the US body Gera was referring to, California's Air Resources Board, showed again just how implementable such measures are in fact by voting unanimously to move forward with its low carbon fuel standard.Finally, for now, let's see if the old adage that \"a man can be known by the company he keeps\" rings true for Canada and its tar sands.Here's Mark Milke, at Canada's Fraser Institute, writing in the European Voice newspaper, in November: The European Commission was wrongheaded when, in October, it singled out oil extracted from Canada's 'tar sands' by proposing a higher carbon-emissions value for it than for other sources of fossil fuel.Milke is the former research director for the Frontier Centre for Public Policy. Here's the FCPP on climate change:As Frederick W. Robertson said: \"There are three things in the world that deserve no mercy, hypocrisy, fraud, and tyranny.\" We have all three in abundance in climate science.In the US, another right-wing think tank, the Heritage Foundation, is keen on tar sands: President Obama was elected by appealing to global warming alarmists, among other groups on the left. Will he cave in to their demands to leave untouched the vast oil sand deposits in Alberta that could provide millions of barrels of oil to fuel economic growth in both countries for decades to come? Development of Alberta's energy sector would be led by US companies, too, thereby boosting growth on both sides of the border.But the Heritage Foundation is not so keen on tackling climate change, despite every nation and science academy on the planet accepting the need for action:The only consensus over the threat of climate change that seems to exist these days is that there is no consensus.There's plenty more of this from, for example the Cato Institute, the Heartland Institute and Italy's Instituto Brunon Leoni, but you get the picture: promoting tar sands fits very snugly with denying the need for action on global warming.Bearing all that in mind, will the British government persist in blocking those European nations who want to brand tar sands fuels as dirty? Will its condemnation of Canada for pulling out of the Kyoto treaty - \"deeply regrettable\" - inform its thinking on tar sands? I hear whispers that the UK position is shifting but, having asked the department for transport, nothing has changed officially.", "tags": ["Environment", "Oil", "Oil", "Tar sands", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "Even Canada doesn't believe its own spin on tar sands | Damian Carrington"},{"date": "2011-12-12T21:38:20Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Muslim women will no longer be able to cover their faces as they take Canadian citizenship after the country's immigration minister announced a ban on anyone wearing the niqab \u2013 the face veil \u2013 or burqa \u2013 full body and face covering \u2013 while taking the oath of citizenship.He said that he had received complaints from citizenship judges who had claimed that it was difficult to ensure that individuals whose faces were covered were actually reciting the oath.\"They told me last month that it's a fairly common problem. Every week, in every region of the country, we're dealing with situations where applicants arrive with a veil on,\" said Jason Kenney, the minister of citizenship and immigration.\"Frankly, I found it bizarre that the rules allowed people to take the oath with a veil on.\"He added that the move was also not simply a practical measure, saying: \"It is a matter of deep principle that goes to the heart of our identity and our values of openness and equality.\"Kenney said the oath of citizenship has to be done freely and openly and under equal conditions.The announcement was made in the French-speaking province of Quebec, where a law passed last year banned the wearing of any face cover while applying for government services in the province.Legislation that would force individuals to show their face in government-funded institutions is also currently being considered in Quebec.Canada's supreme court last week also heard arguments in a case where a Muslim woman wants to testify while wearing a niqab, pitting her right of religious freedom against her alleged rapist's right to face his accuser in the trial.Europe's first ban on face veils came was introduced in April in France, where anyone wearing the niqab or burqa in public faces a fine or lessons in French citizenship.In September, a judge in Meaux fined two French women for wearing the niqab \u2013 the first sanction since France banned Islamic full-face veils in April.", "tags": ["Canada", "Islam", "World news", "Americas", "Women", "Life and style", "Islamic veil"], "title": "Burqa wearing banned in Canada for those taking citizenship oath"},{"date": "2011-11-30T14:25:41Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Judges in Canada do not normally find their judgments reported around the world, but chief justice Bauman of the British Columbia supreme court has managed it with section 293 of the Criminal Code of Canada, which deals with the legality of a Canadian law making polygamy a criminal offence.The issue here is this: how does a self-consciously modern, liberal society continue to criminalise a form of marriage that has existed throughout the world for millennia, when it has at the same time legalised a completely new form of marriage between same-sex couples?Prior to large-scale postwar Muslim immigration the only real experience of polygamy in Europe and North America was with Mormons, who practiced polygamy (aka plural marriage), until it was banned by the mainstream Mormon church in 1890.Since 1890, groups of fundamentalist Mormons have continued the practice in isolated towns, one of which is Bountiful in southern British Columbia. When the Canadian police eventually decided to prosecute two self-appointed Mormon bishops for polygamy, the question was raised whether the law against polygamy was legal under the Canadian charter of rights and fundamental freedoms \u2013 a part of the Canadian constitution which in large parts follows the wording of the European convention on human rights.Supporting the Mormon polygamists was the secular Canadian Polyamory Advocacy Association, which advocates legal recognition not just for traditional polygamous relationships, but also polyandry (more than one husband) and more complex multi-individual and multi-sex relationships.A central argument was based on a 2003 case Halpern v Canada, which legalised same-sex marriage in Canada. Prior to 2003, Canadian law had followed the traditional definition of marriage laid down in the English 1866 case Hyde v Hyde: \"The voluntary union for life of one man and one woman, to the exclusion of all others.\" This definition was followed by the US supreme court in the 1878 case Reynolds v USA, which was also a case involving Mormon polygamists.In Halpern v Canada, the Canadian courts had decided that this definition was in breach of the charter because it prevented marriage between people of the same sex, and so the Canadian parliament was obliged to change the definition of marriage to \"the lawful union of two persons to the exclusion of all others\".What the polygamists argued is that this new definition discriminates against them because it continues to insist on monogamy in the same way that the previous definition insisted on both monogamy and heterosexuality. It was a logical argument that was rejected by Bauman who in his judgment gave a spirited defence of the virtues of monogamy as being a fundamental principle of western civilisation.Bauman said that the preservation of monogamous marriage \"represents a pressing and substantial objective for all of the reasons that have seen the ascendance of monogamous marriage as a norm in the west,\" and that \"the law seeks to advance the institution of monogamous marriage, a fundamental value in western society from the earliest of times.\" He also launched an all-out attack on the concept of polygamy, which he said \"has been condemned throughout history because of the harms consistently associated with its practice\". \"There is no such thing as so-called 'good polygamy',\" he added.Now, I agree with Bauman in his defence of the importance of monogamous marriage to society. But I find it difficult to see the logic of defending monogamous marriage as the historic norm in the west when the laws of Canada have already departed from the principle that it is heterosexual, monogamous marriage that is essential to social stability. Put bluntly, if heterosexuality is no longer legally, morally or socially relevant to marriage, why should monogamy continue to be so important?", "tags": ["Marriage", "Family", "Life and style", "Family law", "Law", "Canada", "Americas", "World news", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Gay marriage"], "title": "Polygamy in Canada: a case of double standards | Neil Addison"},{"date": "2011-12-13T19:32:47Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Imagine being Canada. Imagine doing the international walk of shame from the Durban conference and later announcing, hungover with chunks in your hair, wearing whatever you picked off a stranger's floor, and a shoe missing, that you don't care, you are walking out of the Kyoto protocol and the rest of the world can go fry itself.Imagine making this announcement when you're safely home in the nation's capital \u2013 a strange little place called Ottawa, the epicentre of grim, a Canadian Luton on a rainy weekend \u2013 because you were too chicken to do it in Durban since you knew you would be a laughing stock worldwide.Imagine being a Canadian waking up to this news.Imagine being me, being asked by the Guardian to explain why my nice country, famously full of people who spend their days hewing wood and drawing water amid a stream of apologies, has gone all, well, crap. \"Is Canada suddenly being run by the Daily Mail?\" the editor asked, impeccably courteous as always. Oh you Brits, so charming as you insert the knife.And the answer is an honest Canadian yes.Canada is melting. The great joke of Harper sending a weasely \"environment minister\" scuttling home from Durban is that climate change is eating our forests (literally: you can hear a million pine beetles clicking as they chew), turning the icy north to sponge and killing our wildlife. Oil extracted from the Alberta tar sands \u2013 that's \"tar\", not \"oil\" \u2013 is poisoning air and water.Shooting it south via the Keystone pipeline is economic and environmental idiocy. We know this, he knows this but the great joke of everything Harper does is the clueless ideology behind it. Canada was a kindly liberal loser. Harper, an illustrative man, is always making a point when he punishes us.To wit: Muslim women, with full ID, having passed our weird loyalty test (you will be boring and gracefully will you endure boredom), must remove their face veil as they take the citizenship oath in a crowded courtroom. This was decreed on Monday by immigration minister Jason Kenney, a human woodchuck who can't resist a bit of pointless nasty.The Toronto Zoo's gay penguins, Buddy and Pedro, are being split up. Allegedly, the zoo is cleaving to its core mission, which is to breed, and a female penguin is being introduced. I do not suspect Harper of engineering this \u2013 global warming will fix penguins just as it will our grizzlies. But there could not be a better map for Harperland.The gun registry, basically a national logbook of rifle ownership set up after the massacre of 14 young women in Montreal in 1989, is being killed. This will take place close to the anniversary of the slaughter. The data will be erased, despite protests from statisticians, archivists, women, men, the Mounties, local police forces, oh everyone.Why? I don't know, why does the Daily Mail mock fat women for being fat? Because it's fun to do! Quebec, the only province with courage, is enraged. Why deliberately anger the French, so dignified and civilised? Because it's fun to do!Harper does indeed have a Daily Mail plan. He has just signed a border agreement that will let the US department of homeland security know about every Canadian who travels, when, where and with whom. He is \"harmonising\" our food inspection with the Americans, and if you've seen Food Inc, you'll know that means E coli isn't just for meat any more. It's in walnuts, it's in flour, it's in you.He is building a vast prison system to be populated by an American-style mandatory-sentencing plan that even the Americans are abandoning after decades of failure. Harper's social agenda is up next. Gay marriage? Check. Abortion rights? Check. Former prime minister Jean Chr\u00e9tien is even predicting a return to the death penalty.Yes, my country has gone tabloid, full of resentments we didn't even know existed until they were stirred up by this peculiar man. He can't even get his Christmas card right. He sent out his family photo this year, with his wife (looking deeply unhappy as she always does) and children in almost the same clothes as last year but different poses. He won't say why.I suspect he made them pose twice in 2010 \u2013 c'mon, take one for the team, Laureen \u2013 fearing they might not be as obedient in 2011. I'm hoping Canada looks as sullen as a Harper family portrait when they show up to vote in the next election.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Kyoto protocol", "Climate change", "Global climate talks", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Green politics"], "title": "Canada goes tabloid | Heather Mallick"},{"date": "2011-12-02T22:44:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Out here there is no sound. Since the chopper dropped us at the cabin and turned back towards civilisation, its rotor noise receding to a faint echo, we've been on our own. Mountains can often seem ominously silent, like sleeping giants, but this is a whole new level. There are no foreign-tongued murmurs from the piste, no steel edges chattering on the hardpack, not even a low hum from the chairlift. Thick snow coats the vast natural bowl around us, muffling all but the most immediate sounds: my tramping feet; my steady breathing.I'm in the Kootenay mountains of western Canada to sample an intensive six-week course offered by Nonstop, a British company based in nearby Fernie. It's called Master the Mountain and focuses squarely on improving your off-piste skills in skiing or snowboarding. The climax of the course is four days splitboarding (or ski touring) in the Canadian backcountry.Splitboarding is a new movement in winter sports. Take an ordinary snowboard, split it vertically in half, and you have something resembling two fat skis. The idea is to leave the busy lifts behind, hiking up pristine faces of untouched snow using manpower alone. At the top the \"skis\" slot back together to form a normal board for the run down. And as any snowboarder can tell you, nothing beats the feeling of floating sideways through deep powder.Accessing peaks on foot gives you greater freedom to roam than even heli-skiing and, according to professional snowboarder Jeremy Jones, a greater sense of reward. \"You\u00a0get this endorphin buzz on the way up \u2013 the runner's high \u2013 and then you get the adrenaline on the way down,\" he explains.We arrive via a thrilling helicopter ride at Boulder Hut, our modest accommodation for the next three nights. Unlike your typical modern chalet, there's no internet, no TV, not even a telephone; a two-way radio is its only connection to the outside world. Batteries provide the cabin with limited power but most of the energy \u2013 at least in heating and cooking terms \u2013 comes courtesy of the wood burner, where a pot of herbal tea sits permanently stewing. A second stove warms the Casa de los Sue\u00f1os (House of Dreams), a rustic dorm next door in which we'll be sleeping side by side.The hut is run by Mark Yancey, an experienced off-piste guide, and his wife, Sarah. They move into this isolated dwelling each autumn and remain until the spring, when they swap Canada for Alaska. Their two kids, six-year-old Grace and three-year-old Alden, are home-schooled but seem happy enough making new friends among the guests each week and playing in their own private winter wonderland with Rosie, the family's enormous Pyrenean mountain dog.Over a welcome meal of soup and freshly baked bread, our hosts explain the rules of the house and issue each of us with a mug and plastic lunchbox. It's up to us how often they get washed up, and indeed we're expected to pitch in with the rest of the dishes each evening. Out here in the unspoilt depths of British Columbia, all waste needs to be carefully composted or recycled, while calls of nature must be answered at the \"pee tree\", marked with a ribbon, or a simple A-frame outhouse buried beneath several feet of snow, where a chilly toilet seat covers a humble hole in the ground.The following morning we fuel up on huevos rancheros (Mexican-style eggs and tortillas) and fill the lunchboxes with more carbs, including homemade \"energy balls\", an indulgent mix of peanut butter, chocolate and coconut. Not that we need to watch our weight \u2013 we'll be burning up to 5,000 calories during the course of a day's splitboarding.Back in Fernie, the students practised turning their snowboards into skis and attaching the all-important \"skins\" to the base. Once made of seal fur, these days they are essentially strips of sticky carpet, but the effect is the same, allowing your skis to grip the snow when walking uphill.Then we are on our way, hiking in single file up through the trees and on to the stunning upper plateau. Our group, which includes an IT manager from Warrington, a Dutch student, a London-based yoga teacher and an Australian mining expert, boasts varying levels of fitness, but no matter: Mark sets a slow and steady pace and we fall into an easy rhythm behind. I use the time to talk to the others about their experience on the course.\"I was fed up with the usual holidays where you spend half your time feeling rusty,\" says Shane Adams,\u00a0who took a career break to make the journey from Telford to Canada. \"We've had five hours' coaching a day and my snowboarding has really progressed.\"Tuition on tree riding, maintenance, avalanche skills, video analysis are also included, as is a season lift-pass for Fernie are so guests can stay for the rest of the winter if you wish.We plod on, lost in our own thoughts. What makes splitboarding special is the sense of immersion within the landscape, and, as you slowly gain altitude with each upward stride, the run back down the powder face is already being inwardly savoured. They call it \"earning your turns\".Up ahead, Mark has already reached the summit, accompanied by Rosie the dog \u2013 a trotting polar bear in her thick white coat. \"I bought her because they're guardian dogs, and we've got a lot of wolves and bears here in the summer,\" he explains. \"Even when it's minus 25 at night she doesn't want to come inside. But she's turned out to be a really good mountain dog.\"After stripping skins from the skis and fixing our boards back together, we're off. With Rosie bounding excitedly alongside, we drop into the shadow of a north-facing powder face and rapidly gain speed, throwing up rooster tails of light crystals before emerging into the sun-drenched plateau below. The splitboard's flex feels a little different to my regular board but I'm soon used to it, and in conditions of this quality you could surf a canoe.We make several more climbs, each a little less demanding as our limbs begin to tire, before returning exhausted but exhilarated to the hut. Mark, Sarah and the kids claim first dibs in the outdoor hot tub, a Heath Robinson contraption heated via its own wood furnace, and we follow, darting barefoot over the snow as more flakes begin to fall. Squeezing six blokes into a small tin bath and keeping the furnace topped up with logs is a sure-fire way to raise laughter, and the group bonding continues over a fabulous dinner of wild salmon, caught and frozen by Mark's brother in Alaska.Five weeks ago, many of the people around this table had never set foot beyond a manicured piste; now they are confident powder hunters, and talk moves to the next day's challenges.\"Tomorrow we're going to explore a different zone,\" says Mark. \"And, just to warn you, if the snow keeps up then the heli won't be able to fly in to pick you up on Wednesday.\"A collective glance flashes across the warm room. Bring on the snow!\u2022 Nonstop's next Master the Mountain Off-Piste Camp, including splitboarding at Boulder Hut, runs for six weeks from 17 January 2012 (020-7720 6500, nonstopsnow.com). Prices start at \u00a35,495 and include accommodation, food, transfers, a full season lift pass and 20 hours' coaching a week. Two week courses are also available from \u00a31,750pp but don't include splitboarding. Nonstop can arrange return flights from Heathrow to Calgary with Air Canada (aircanada.com) from \u00a3600Ed Blomfield is the editor of Whitelines magazine (whitelines.mpora.com)", "tags": ["Snowboarding", "Canada holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Skiing holidays", "Travel", "Learning holidays", "Extreme sports holidays"], "title": "Splitboarding in Canada"},{"date": "2011-12-13T02:04:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has pulled out of the Kyoto protocol on climate change, one day after an update was agreed on, saying the accord won't work.The Canadian environment minister, Peter Kent, said Canada was invoking its legal right to withdraw. Kyoto did not represent the way forward for Canada or the world, he said.Canada, Japan and Russia said last year they would not accept new Kyoto commitments, but Canada is the only country to repudiate it altogether.The protocol, initially adopted in Kyoto, Japan, in 1997, is aimed at fighting global warming. Canada's previous Liberal government signed the accord but did little to implement it and current prime minister Stephen Harper's Conservative government never embraced it.\"The Kyoto protocol does not cover the world's largest two emitters, the United States and China, and therefore cannot work,\" Kent said. \"It's now clear that Kyoto is not the path forward to a global solution to climate change. If anything it's an impediment.\"Kent's announcement came a day after marathon climate talks wrapped up in the South African port city of Durban.Negotiators from nearly 200 countries agreed on a deal that sets the world on a path to sign a new climate treaty by 2015 to replace the first Kyoto protocol, whose current provisions expire next year.Durban's accord envisions a new treaty with binding targets for all countries to take effect in 2020.\"[Withdrawing] allows us to continue to create jobs and growth in Canada,\" Kent said.Canada had been expected to pull out and as a result faced international criticism at the Durban talks. Kent had said previously that signing Kyoto was one of the previous government's biggest blunders.Kent said it would save Canada $14bn in penalties for not achieving its Kyoto targets. \"To meet the targets under Kyoto for 2012 would be the equivalent of either removing every car, truck, ATV, tractor, ambulance, police car and vehicle of every kind from Canadian roads or closing down the entire farming and agriculture sector and cutting heat to every home, office, hospital, factory and building in Canada,\" Kent said.Mike Hudema of Greenpeace Canada said in a statement it was a further signal that the Harper government is more concerned about protecting polluters than people.Hannah McKinnon of Climate Action Network Canada said formally withdrawing was a slap in the face of the international community and \"a total abdication of our responsibilities\".An opposition New Democrat MP, Megan Leslie, disputed the figures involved and said there were no penalties under Kyoto. Pulling out saved the Conservatives having to report that Canada was falling short of its targets, she said.\"It's like we're the kid in school who knows they're going to fail the class, so we have to drop it before that actually happens,\" Leslie said.Canada's Conservative government is reluctant to hurt Canada's booming oil sands sector, the country's fastest growing source of greenhouse gases. Canada has the world's third-largest oil reserves, more than 170bn barrels. Daily production of 1.5m barrels from the oil sands is expected to increase to 3.7mn in 2025. Only Saudi Arabia and Venezuela have more reserves. But the enormous amount of energy and water needed in the extraction process increases greenhouse gas emissions.Kent said Canada produced \"barely 2%\" of global emissions. The previous Liberal government had signed on to Kyoto in 1997 without any intention of meeting its targets, he said. Kyoto originally covered countries generating less than 30% of global emissions and that had fallen to 13%. Canada wanted a fair agreement covering all nations.Scientists say that if levels of greenhouse gases continue to rise, eventually the world's climate will reach a tipping point, with irreversible melting of some ice sheets and sea levels rising by several metres.Climate negotiations have been focused on preventing global temperatures rising more than 1.2C (2F) above current levels by the end of this century.", "tags": ["Kyoto protocol", "Canada", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Environment", "Science", "World news"], "title": "Canada pulls out of Kyoto protocol"},{"date": "2011-12-20T07:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It's time to pitch back into the controversy over Canada's lobbying offensive against proposed European penalties on fuels from tar sands. But this time we're going through the looking glass, with Canada secretly admitting it has no \"credible scientific information on [the tar sands industry's] environmental performance\" and the British government, which has bent over backwards to help Canada protect its highly polluting fuels, giving funding to anti-tar sands campaigners. In addition, we have further confirmation that statements made by Canadian diplomats to UK counterparts are contradicted by reality, and that in promoting tar sands, the Canadians are keeping some pretty unpleasant company.In the midst of all this, the Canadian lobbying effort to block European Union rules that would discriminate against fuels derived from tar sands continues unabated. A key vote in Europe was postponed until early next year, but the issue remains very much on the agenda, and was discussed on Monday by the European Commission's environment committee.To recap, the EU argues that fuels from tar sands - also known as oil sands - should be designated as producing 22% more greenhouse gas emissions than regular crude oil. Canada, whose vast tars sands are the second largest reserve of carbon in the world after Saudi Arabia, don't like this for two reasons. Firstly, it will make the fuels less attractive for European importers and secondly, it will be an official labelling of tar sands fuels as dirty in terms of driving global warming, as well as destroying forests and causing air and water pollution.Canada's environment minister Peter Kent said at the UN climate change summit in Durban, where Canada won the \"colossal fossil\" accolade from outraged campaigners, that: \"There is a disproportionate amount of criticism of the oil sands which is a responsibly and sustainably developed resource, of which we are proud.\" In that light, the recent revelation by Canada's Postmedia News of briefing notes prepared in June for Kent and his team is particularly embarrassing. They stated:Implementing this new monitoring system [of the impact of tar sand exploitation on land, air and water] is an urgent priority to head off threats to the industry, which needs credible scientific information on its environmental performance as soon as possible.Environment Canada also advised that the absence of scientific evidence supporting their claims was affecting the industry's ability to raise capital from and sell into (the) foreign market.So, in private, it seems even the Canadians don't believe their own spin. The UK government, however, seems to have swallowed it whole, which makes another revelation even stranger. Despite the UK having given secret help to Canada to block the European proposals, it has also given almost $60,000 to the anti-tar sands Pembina Institute. That looks very much like a double standard to me.British ministers and officials have been, in the words of Chris Davies, the Liberal Democrat environment spokesman in the European parliament, \"extraordinarily naive ... to take the special pleading by Canada as though it were gospel truth, rather than what it is - an attempt to protect narrow financial interests.\" That was over a claim made by a London-based Canadian diplomat called Sushma Gera to her UK counterparts on 21 October, that \"the US consideration of similar [tar sands] measures had just failed, as it was 'unimplementable'.\"On Friday, the US body Gera was referring to, California's Air Resources Board, showed again just how implementable such measures are in fact by voting unanimously to move forward with its low carbon fuel standard.Finally, for now, let's see if the old adage that \"a man can be known by the company he keeps\" rings true for Canada and its tar sands.Here's Mark Milke, at Canada's Fraser Institute, writing in the European Voice newspaper, in November: The European Commission was wrongheaded when, in October, it singled out oil extracted from Canada's 'tar sands' by proposing a higher carbon-emissions value for it than for other sources of fossil fuel.Milke is the former research director for the Frontier Centre for Public Policy. Here's the FCPP on climate change:As Frederick W. Robertson said: \"There are three things in the world that deserve no mercy, hypocrisy, fraud, and tyranny.\" We have all three in abundance in climate science.In the US, another right-wing think tank, the Heritage Foundation, is keen on tar sands: President Obama was elected by appealing to global warming alarmists, among other groups on the left. Will he cave in to their demands to leave untouched the vast oil sand deposits in Alberta that could provide millions of barrels of oil to fuel economic growth in both countries for decades to come? Development of Alberta's energy sector would be led by US companies, too, thereby boosting growth on both sides of the border.But the Heritage Foundation is not so keen on tackling climate change, despite every nation and science academy on the planet accepting the need for action:The only consensus over the threat of climate change that seems to exist these days is that there is no consensus.There's plenty more of this from, for example the Cato Institute, the Heartland Institute and Italy's Instituto Brunon Leoni, but you get the picture: promoting tar sands fits very snugly with denying the need for action on global warming.Bearing all that in mind, will the British government persist in blocking those European nations who want to brand tar sands fuels as dirty? Will its condemnation of Canada for pulling out of the Kyoto treaty - \"deeply regrettable\" - inform its thinking on tar sands? I hear whispers that the UK position is shifting but, having asked the department for transport, nothing has changed officially.", "tags": ["Environment", "Oil", "Oil", "Tar sands", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "Even Canada doesn't believe its own spin on tar sands | Damian Carrington"},{"date": "2011-12-12T21:38:20Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Muslim women will no longer be able to cover their faces as they take Canadian citizenship after the country's immigration minister announced a ban on anyone wearing the niqab \u2013 the face veil \u2013 or burqa \u2013 full body and face covering \u2013 while taking the oath of citizenship.He said that he had received complaints from citizenship judges who had claimed that it was difficult to ensure that individuals whose faces were covered were actually reciting the oath.\"They told me last month that it's a fairly common problem. Every week, in every region of the country, we're dealing with situations where applicants arrive with a veil on,\" said Jason Kenney, the minister of citizenship and immigration.\"Frankly, I found it bizarre that the rules allowed people to take the oath with a veil on.\"He added that the move was also not simply a practical measure, saying: \"It is a matter of deep principle that goes to the heart of our identity and our values of openness and equality.\"Kenney said the oath of citizenship has to be done freely and openly and under equal conditions.The announcement was made in the French-speaking province of Quebec, where a law passed last year banned the wearing of any face cover while applying for government services in the province.Legislation that would force individuals to show their face in government-funded institutions is also currently being considered in Quebec.Canada's supreme court last week also heard arguments in a case where a Muslim woman wants to testify while wearing a niqab, pitting her right of religious freedom against her alleged rapist's right to face his accuser in the trial.Europe's first ban on face veils came was introduced in April in France, where anyone wearing the niqab or burqa in public faces a fine or lessons in French citizenship.In September, a judge in Meaux fined two French women for wearing the niqab \u2013 the first sanction since France banned Islamic full-face veils in April.", "tags": ["Canada", "Islam", "World news", "Americas", "Women", "Life and style", "Islamic veil"], "title": "Burqa wearing banned in Canada for those taking citizenship oath"},{"date": "2011-11-30T14:25:41Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Judges in Canada do not normally find their judgments reported around the world, but chief justice Bauman of the British Columbia supreme court has managed it with section 293 of the Criminal Code of Canada, which deals with the legality of a Canadian law making polygamy a criminal offence.The issue here is this: how does a self-consciously modern, liberal society continue to criminalise a form of marriage that has existed throughout the world for millennia, when it has at the same time legalised a completely new form of marriage between same-sex couples?Prior to large-scale postwar Muslim immigration the only real experience of polygamy in Europe and North America was with Mormons, who practiced polygamy (aka plural marriage), until it was banned by the mainstream Mormon church in 1890.Since 1890, groups of fundamentalist Mormons have continued the practice in isolated towns, one of which is Bountiful in southern British Columbia. When the Canadian police eventually decided to prosecute two self-appointed Mormon bishops for polygamy, the question was raised whether the law against polygamy was legal under the Canadian charter of rights and fundamental freedoms \u2013 a part of the Canadian constitution which in large parts follows the wording of the European convention on human rights.Supporting the Mormon polygamists was the secular Canadian Polyamory Advocacy Association, which advocates legal recognition not just for traditional polygamous relationships, but also polyandry (more than one husband) and more complex multi-individual and multi-sex relationships.A central argument was based on a 2003 case Halpern v Canada, which legalised same-sex marriage in Canada. Prior to 2003, Canadian law had followed the traditional definition of marriage laid down in the English 1866 case Hyde v Hyde: \"The voluntary union for life of one man and one woman, to the exclusion of all others.\" This definition was followed by the US supreme court in the 1878 case Reynolds v USA, which was also a case involving Mormon polygamists.In Halpern v Canada, the Canadian courts had decided that this definition was in breach of the charter because it prevented marriage between people of the same sex, and so the Canadian parliament was obliged to change the definition of marriage to \"the lawful union of two persons to the exclusion of all others\".What the polygamists argued is that this new definition discriminates against them because it continues to insist on monogamy in the same way that the previous definition insisted on both monogamy and heterosexuality. It was a logical argument that was rejected by Bauman who in his judgment gave a spirited defence of the virtues of monogamy as being a fundamental principle of western civilisation.Bauman said that the preservation of monogamous marriage \"represents a pressing and substantial objective for all of the reasons that have seen the ascendance of monogamous marriage as a norm in the west,\" and that \"the law seeks to advance the institution of monogamous marriage, a fundamental value in western society from the earliest of times.\" He also launched an all-out attack on the concept of polygamy, which he said \"has been condemned throughout history because of the harms consistently associated with its practice\". \"There is no such thing as so-called 'good polygamy',\" he added.Now, I agree with Bauman in his defence of the importance of monogamous marriage to society. But I find it difficult to see the logic of defending monogamous marriage as the historic norm in the west when the laws of Canada have already departed from the principle that it is heterosexual, monogamous marriage that is essential to social stability. Put bluntly, if heterosexuality is no longer legally, morally or socially relevant to marriage, why should monogamy continue to be so important?", "tags": ["Marriage", "Family", "Life and style", "Family law", "Law", "Canada", "Americas", "World news", "LGBT rights", "Sexuality", "Gay marriage"], "title": "Polygamy in Canada: a case of double standards | Neil Addison"},{"date": "2011-11-27T19:14:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The UK government has been giving secret support at the very highest levels to Canada's campaign against European penalties on its highly polluting tar sands fuel, the Guardian can reveal.At the same time, the UK government was being lobbied by Shell and BP, which both have major tar sands projects in Alberta, and opened a new consulate in the province to \"support British commercial interests\".At least 15 high-level meetings and frequent communications have taken place since September, with David Cameron discussing the issue with his counterpart Stephen Harper during his visit to Canada, and stating privately that the UK wanted \"to work with Canada on finding a way forward\", according to documents released under freedom of information laws.Charles Hendry, the energy minister, later told the Canadian high commissioner: \"We would value continued discussion with you on how we can progress discussions in Brussels,\" with Hendry's official asking the Canadians if they had \"any suggestions as to what we might do, given the politics in Brussels\".Canada's vast tar sands \u2013 also known as oil sands \u2013 are the second largest reserve of carbon in the world after Saudi Arabia, although the energy needed to extract oil from the ground means the process results in far more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional oil drilling, as well as causing the destruction of forests and air and water pollution.Nasa scientist James Hansen says if the oil sands were exploited as projected it would be \"game over for the climate\".The European proposal is to designate transport fuel from tar sands as resulting in 22% more greenhouse gas emissions than that from conventional fuels. This would make suppliers, who have to reduce the emissions from their fuels by 10% by 2020, very reluctant to include it in their fuel mix. It would also set an unwelcome precedent for Canada by officially labelling fuel from tar sands as dirtier.The UK and Canada's shared opposition to the European plan puts the UK in a minority among EU countries and will be deeply embarrassing as a new round of global negotiations on tackling climate change begins in Durban, South Africa on Monday. Chris Huhne, the energy and climate change secretary, claimed on Thursday that the UK was showing \"leadership\" in the UN negotiations, while Canada's prime minister has blocked climate laws. The revelations are also the latest blow to Cameron's claim to be the \"greenest government ever\".The vote to approve the European fuel quality regulations takes place on Friday. In advance of that, William Hague, the foreign secretary, has also given support to Canada, sending an \"immediate action\" cable in September to the UK's embassies there asking \"to communicate our position and seek Canadian views on what might be acceptable\".However, the Department for Transport, in which the Liberal Democrat minister Norman Baker has responsibility for tar sands issues, has released only two presentations made to it by Shell, both heavily redacted. The DfT rejected requests to release at least six other relevant documents on the grounds of commercial confidentiality and adverse effect on international relations, as did the Department for Business, Innovation and Skills (BIS), where Shell also met ministers.BP has lobbied ministers, too. Its vice president in Europe, Peter Mather, has been, in his own words, \"bending the ear\" of Baker. Mather also sent a letter in which he wrote: \"The regulatory burden would be considerable at a time when the industry is already creaking under the weight of a heavy regulatory regime.\"John Sauven, executive director of Greenpeace UK, said: \"The scale of oil industry lobbying exposed in these documents is quite extraordinary. It's especially worrying that Baker held a secret meeting with Shell about this key European vote on tar sands. But worse still, he's now covering up what was discussed.\"Colin Baines, toxic fuels campaign manager at the Co-operative, the UK mutual business group which targets tar sands as part of its climate change campaigning, said: \"It is very disappointing that the UK government is supporting Canada's efforts and we hope it has a rethink and puts tackling climate change ahead of Canada's trade interests when it comes to vote on the European commission's commonsense proposal.\"The documents were obtained by the Co-operative under environmental information regulations, a type of freedom of information law. They include letters to and from ministers, diplomatic correspondence and notes of meetings.Baker said: \"The government is staying true to its aspiration to be the greenest ever by seeking to secure the best deal it can for the environment from the discussions ongoing in the EU about the fuel quality directive.\"We believe that means tackling all highly polluting crudes equally, not simply oil sands from one particular country. These certainly represent a problem, but so do other crudes, and it makes no environmental sense to ignore these.\"This is not about protecting one particular country \u2013 we want to deal with all crudes, not just one type, and in a way that is based on robust and objective data, related to their carbon emissions.\"Like Baker, Canada also argues in the newly revealed documents that it is unfair to single out one nation and that other types of oil can be as dirty as tar sands.But Baines says these arguments are \"myths\", as the European proposal does not name any nation and on average fuel from tar sands is a greater source of carbon by a clear margin, according to a Stanford University study for the European commission.Furthermore, the European commission proposal allows for changes in the emissions designated for fuel types.Canadian ministers and diplomats state they support an \"overarching ambition\" to reduce carbon emissions. But Canada has admitted it will fail to meet its Kyoto protocol target of a 6% cut compared with 1990 levels: in 2009 its emissions were 34% higher.In September, Lord Sassoon, the UK Treasury minister for commerce, spent two days in Calgary, a few hundred miles from the vast oil sand pits excavated by 1,500-tonne diggers. The International Energy Agency expects production to treble in the next 20 years. Sassoon met politicians and oil executives to discuss boosting trade with the UK and told reporters that Alberta is \"one of the main focuses of British business\". Alberta's energy minister, Ron Liepert, told Sassoon privately he \"was grateful for UK efforts\" on the tar sands issue in Europe.The new British consulate-general in Calgary was announced by Hague on 18 October, the same day as Canadian energy minister Joe Oliver said: \"[The British] have been very, very helpful and we're pleased about that. Many European companies are heavily invested in the oil sands and they also would be concerned.\" The new documents and diplomatic sources suggest the Netherlands, Spain and Poland are among those backing the British-Canadian position.In London, a senior Canadian diplomat, Sushma Gera, told BIS: \"Canada will not hesitate to defend her interests,\" perhaps via a World Trade Organisation dispute, a possibility also raised by Shell in its presentation to DfT.Bill McKibben, a leading US environmentalist, who was arrested in August protesting against a major oil sands pipeline called Keystone XL said: \"The UK seems to have emerged as Canada's partner in crime, leaning on Brussels to let this crud across the borders. This will be among the biggest single environmental decisions the Cameron government makes.\"Greenpeace's Sauven, along with the head of Friends of the Earth, Andy Atkins, and David Nussbaum, leader of WWF-UK, have written to Nick Clegg, deputy prime minister and Lib Dem leader.The letter says: \"We ask you to intervene personally on this, to ensure that your party's green ambitions are more effectively upheld across Whitehall.\"\u2022 This article was amended on 28 November 2011. The original incorrectly referred to Calgary as the capital of Alberta.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Durban climate change conference 2011", "Climate change", "Oil", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Greenpeace", "Activism", "Environment", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Business", "Oil", "Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Europe"], "title": "UK secretly helping Canada push its oil sands project"},{"date": "2012-03-20T14:05:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hungarians head to CanadaThe writer Akos Kertesz, 80, has just left his home in Hungary to seek asylum in Canada. In 2011, Ottawa registered almost twice as many applications from Hungarian nationals compared with the previous year, with 4,450 cases, up from 2,350 in 2010, according to Citizenship and Immigration Canada figures.The CIC does not record ethnic data on applicants, but this trend is thought mainly to concern Roma. Immigration minister Jason Kenney wants to tighten up existing legislation. He has also highlighted the paradox that Canada should be seeing more refugees from democratic Europe than from Asia or Africa. As a member of the European Union Hungary counts as a safe country and its nationals do not need a visa to visit Canada. Ottawa is, however about to change this policyvictimised by far-right groups a Roma militant, who has also taken refuge in Canada.A Liberal member of the European Parliament from 2004 to 2009 Ms Mohacsi alerted the media and authorities about the systematic attacks on Hungarian Roma in 2008-9, which claimed six lives and injured 55 others. The trial of four suspects opened almost a year ago in Budapest, but has dragged on, largely ignored by the general public. Mohacsi, jobless and deprived of funding for her human rights organisation, had no option but to leaveThis article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Canada", "Hungary", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "Race issues"], "title": "Twice as many Hungarian asylum seekers in Canada in 2011"},{"date": "2012-03-20T14:05:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hungarians head to CanadaThe writer Akos Kertesz, 80, has just left his home in Hungary to seek asylum in Canada. In 2011, Ottawa registered almost twice as many applications from Hungarian nationals compared with the previous year, with 4,450 cases, up from 2,350 in 2010, according to Citizenship and Immigration Canada figures.The CIC does not record ethnic data on applicants, but this trend is thought mainly to concern Roma. Immigration minister Jason Kenney wants to tighten up existing legislation. He has also highlighted the paradox that Canada should be seeing more refugees from democratic Europe than from Asia or Africa. As a member of the European Union Hungary counts as a safe country and its nationals do not need a visa to visit Canada. Ottawa is, however about to change this policyvictimised by far-right groups a Roma militant, who has also taken refuge in Canada.A Liberal member of the European Parliament from 2004 to 2009 Ms Mohacsi alerted the media and authorities about the systematic attacks on Hungarian Roma in 2008-9, which claimed six lives and injured 55 others. The trial of four suspects opened almost a year ago in Budapest, but has dragged on, largely ignored by the general public. Mohacsi, jobless and deprived of funding for her human rights organisation, had no option but to leaveThis article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Canada", "Hungary", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "Race issues"], "title": "Twice as many Hungarian asylum seekers in Canada in 2011"},{"date": "2012-03-09T23:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The UK jobs market is an unwelcoming prospect for students preparing to graduate this summer, which is one reason why many are planning to spend the coming year travelling and working in Canada. The Canadian High Commission has just released 5,350 places for this year's International Experience Canada (IEC) working holiday initiative and it has already received an unprecedented number of applications.The chief attraction is that, unlike in Britain, there are plenty of jobs available in Canada for those prepared to be flexible. \"There is a big call for skilled labour in hospitality and construction in the western provinces, Alberta and British Colombia and in Toronto and the ski resorts,\" says Gordon Campbell, Canada's High commissioner to the UK. \"We are one of the economies in the western world that is currently very strong.\"Fiona Brown spent a year in Toronto after graduating with an English and History degree from Edinburgh and says that the experience determined her career path.She says: \"I was unsure what career I wanted so decided to take a year out and hopefully get a sense of direction.\"After a few weeks of temping with an agency she found a permanent \u00a37-an-hour job in a bookshop and volunteered with a charity that supports isolated older people.\"I was matched with a woman who has cerebral palsy and enjoyed the regular visits so much that I applied to do an MA in social work at Warwick University,\" Brown adds.She organised her trip through the overseas work specialist BUNAC which, for a \u00a3254 fee, helps applicants obtain visas and assists with flights, accommodation, job hunting and general support throughout their year there. \"We have two resource centres in Toronto and Vancouver which help people search for jobs and we issue a handbook beforehand and an orientation course on arrival which give advice on living and working in Canada,\" says marketing manager Holly Brooks.\"People can choose to fly out with a group of other people on the Work Canada programme so they can get to know each other, they can be accommodated together in the hostels we use and we organise social events to help them make friends once they're there.\"Those hoping to launch themselves as high fliers in the Canadian financial sector may be disappointed. The IEC visas are for a year only and geared towards more casual work combined with travel. \"Jobs in retail are the easiest to get, although there is demand for more high skilled people,\" says Brooks. \"So long as you're flexible about what kind of work you'll accept, it's unlikely that you won't find a job within the first three weeks.\"This year's increased demand means that visa applications to the Canadian High Commission may take longer than the usual eight weeks to process.When Fiona Brown completes her MA this summer she intends to apply for a work visa and return to Canada for good.She says: \"I love the whole lifestyle there. Everyone is so friendly and they're fascinated by the British accent which made me stand out in the group interview for the bookshop job.\"I went out there because I thought it would be an adventure, but that year gave me a sense of my future.\"", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Job hunting", "Work & careers", "Money", "Canada", "World news"], "title": "Can't find a graduate job? Look to Canada"},{"date": "2012-03-20T14:05:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hungarians head to CanadaThe writer Akos Kertesz, 80, has just left his home in Hungary to seek asylum in Canada. In 2011, Ottawa registered almost twice as many applications from Hungarian nationals compared with the previous year, with 4,450 cases, up from 2,350 in 2010, according to Citizenship and Immigration Canada figures.The CIC does not record ethnic data on applicants, but this trend is thought mainly to concern Roma. Immigration minister Jason Kenney wants to tighten up existing legislation. He has also highlighted the paradox that Canada should be seeing more refugees from democratic Europe than from Asia or Africa. As a member of the European Union Hungary counts as a safe country and its nationals do not need a visa to visit Canada. Ottawa is, however about to change this policyvictimised by far-right groups a Roma militant, who has also taken refuge in Canada.A Liberal member of the European Parliament from 2004 to 2009 Ms Mohacsi alerted the media and authorities about the systematic attacks on Hungarian Roma in 2008-9, which claimed six lives and injured 55 others. The trial of four suspects opened almost a year ago in Budapest, but has dragged on, largely ignored by the general public. Mohacsi, jobless and deprived of funding for her human rights organisation, had no option but to leaveThis article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Canada", "Hungary", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "Race issues"], "title": "Twice as many Hungarian asylum seekers in Canada in 2011"},{"date": "2012-03-09T23:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The UK jobs market is an unwelcoming prospect for students preparing to graduate this summer, which is one reason why many are planning to spend the coming year travelling and working in Canada. The Canadian High Commission has just released 5,350 places for this year's International Experience Canada (IEC) working holiday initiative and it has already received an unprecedented number of applications.The chief attraction is that, unlike in Britain, there are plenty of jobs available in Canada for those prepared to be flexible. \"There is a big call for skilled labour in hospitality and construction in the western provinces, Alberta and British Colombia and in Toronto and the ski resorts,\" says Gordon Campbell, Canada's High commissioner to the UK. \"We are one of the economies in the western world that is currently very strong.\"Fiona Brown spent a year in Toronto after graduating with an English and History degree from Edinburgh and says that the experience determined her career path.She says: \"I was unsure what career I wanted so decided to take a year out and hopefully get a sense of direction.\"After a few weeks of temping with an agency she found a permanent \u00a37-an-hour job in a bookshop and volunteered with a charity that supports isolated older people.\"I was matched with a woman who has cerebral palsy and enjoyed the regular visits so much that I applied to do an MA in social work at Warwick University,\" Brown adds.She organised her trip through the overseas work specialist BUNAC which, for a \u00a3254 fee, helps applicants obtain visas and assists with flights, accommodation, job hunting and general support throughout their year there. \"We have two resource centres in Toronto and Vancouver which help people search for jobs and we issue a handbook beforehand and an orientation course on arrival which give advice on living and working in Canada,\" says marketing manager Holly Brooks.\"People can choose to fly out with a group of other people on the Work Canada programme so they can get to know each other, they can be accommodated together in the hostels we use and we organise social events to help them make friends once they're there.\"Those hoping to launch themselves as high fliers in the Canadian financial sector may be disappointed. The IEC visas are for a year only and geared towards more casual work combined with travel. \"Jobs in retail are the easiest to get, although there is demand for more high skilled people,\" says Brooks. \"So long as you're flexible about what kind of work you'll accept, it's unlikely that you won't find a job within the first three weeks.\"This year's increased demand means that visa applications to the Canadian High Commission may take longer than the usual eight weeks to process.When Fiona Brown completes her MA this summer she intends to apply for a work visa and return to Canada for good.She says: \"I love the whole lifestyle there. Everyone is so friendly and they're fascinated by the British accent which made me stand out in the group interview for the bookshop job.\"I went out there because I thought it would be an adventure, but that year gave me a sense of my future.\"", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Job hunting", "Work & careers", "Money", "Canada", "World news"], "title": "Can't find a graduate job? Look to Canada"},{"date": "2012-03-01T08:35:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "If you are fascinated by the benthos, by marine biodiversity or by the latest applications of modern technology, then you will enjoy this lovely video by the Ocean Networks Canada Observatory. This video captures scenes from their summer and autumn 2011 installation cruises throughout the northeastern Pacific Ocean, just off the coast of southwestern Canada and northwestern United States. In this video, you'll see a variety of beautiful and mysterious deep-sea and benthic creatures, such as gently pulsating jellies and angelic gliding rays, elegant brittle stars and delicate sea fans, and forests of tube worms, affixed to giant black smokers on the sea floor, thriving in sulfur-rich waters with temperatures exceeding a hundred degrees celsius:  Visit Ocean Networks Canada's Vimeo channel [video link]. The Ocean Networks Canada Observatory uses both VENUS and NEPTUNE Canada cabled networks to support research into marine environments ranging from the coast to the deep ocean. It allows for real-time interactive experiments designed to increase our understanding of ocean health, ecosystems, resources, natural hazards, and marine conservation. The Observatory is a national facility led by the University of Victoria on behalf of a pan-Canadian consortium of universities and partners. The Ocean Networks Canada Observatory is on facebook and twitter @ONCCEE The University of Victoria is on facebook and twitter @UVicNews.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. twitter: @GrrlScientist facebook: grrlscientist evil google+: grrlscientist email: grrlscientist@gmail.com", "tags": ["Zoology", "Science", "Marine life", "Biodiversity", "Environment"], "title": "Cruise the NE Pacific with the Ocean Networks Canada Observatory [video] | GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2012-03-20T14:05:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hungarians head to CanadaThe writer Akos Kertesz, 80, has just left his home in Hungary to seek asylum in Canada. In 2011, Ottawa registered almost twice as many applications from Hungarian nationals compared with the previous year, with 4,450 cases, up from 2,350 in 2010, according to Citizenship and Immigration Canada figures.The CIC does not record ethnic data on applicants, but this trend is thought mainly to concern Roma. Immigration minister Jason Kenney wants to tighten up existing legislation. He has also highlighted the paradox that Canada should be seeing more refugees from democratic Europe than from Asia or Africa. As a member of the European Union Hungary counts as a safe country and its nationals do not need a visa to visit Canada. Ottawa is, however about to change this policyvictimised by far-right groups a Roma militant, who has also taken refuge in Canada.A Liberal member of the European Parliament from 2004 to 2009 Ms Mohacsi alerted the media and authorities about the systematic attacks on Hungarian Roma in 2008-9, which claimed six lives and injured 55 others. The trial of four suspects opened almost a year ago in Budapest, but has dragged on, largely ignored by the general public. Mohacsi, jobless and deprived of funding for her human rights organisation, had no option but to leaveThis article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Canada", "Hungary", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "Race issues"], "title": "Twice as many Hungarian asylum seekers in Canada in 2011"},{"date": "2012-03-09T23:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The UK jobs market is an unwelcoming prospect for students preparing to graduate this summer, which is one reason why many are planning to spend the coming year travelling and working in Canada. The Canadian High Commission has just released 5,350 places for this year's International Experience Canada (IEC) working holiday initiative and it has already received an unprecedented number of applications.The chief attraction is that, unlike in Britain, there are plenty of jobs available in Canada for those prepared to be flexible. \"There is a big call for skilled labour in hospitality and construction in the western provinces, Alberta and British Colombia and in Toronto and the ski resorts,\" says Gordon Campbell, Canada's High commissioner to the UK. \"We are one of the economies in the western world that is currently very strong.\"Fiona Brown spent a year in Toronto after graduating with an English and History degree from Edinburgh and says that the experience determined her career path.She says: \"I was unsure what career I wanted so decided to take a year out and hopefully get a sense of direction.\"After a few weeks of temping with an agency she found a permanent \u00a37-an-hour job in a bookshop and volunteered with a charity that supports isolated older people.\"I was matched with a woman who has cerebral palsy and enjoyed the regular visits so much that I applied to do an MA in social work at Warwick University,\" Brown adds.She organised her trip through the overseas work specialist BUNAC which, for a \u00a3254 fee, helps applicants obtain visas and assists with flights, accommodation, job hunting and general support throughout their year there. \"We have two resource centres in Toronto and Vancouver which help people search for jobs and we issue a handbook beforehand and an orientation course on arrival which give advice on living and working in Canada,\" says marketing manager Holly Brooks.\"People can choose to fly out with a group of other people on the Work Canada programme so they can get to know each other, they can be accommodated together in the hostels we use and we organise social events to help them make friends once they're there.\"Those hoping to launch themselves as high fliers in the Canadian financial sector may be disappointed. The IEC visas are for a year only and geared towards more casual work combined with travel. \"Jobs in retail are the easiest to get, although there is demand for more high skilled people,\" says Brooks. \"So long as you're flexible about what kind of work you'll accept, it's unlikely that you won't find a job within the first three weeks.\"This year's increased demand means that visa applications to the Canadian High Commission may take longer than the usual eight weeks to process.When Fiona Brown completes her MA this summer she intends to apply for a work visa and return to Canada for good.She says: \"I love the whole lifestyle there. Everyone is so friendly and they're fascinated by the British accent which made me stand out in the group interview for the bookshop job.\"I went out there because I thought it would be an adventure, but that year gave me a sense of my future.\"", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Job hunting", "Work & careers", "Money", "Canada", "World news"], "title": "Can't find a graduate job? Look to Canada"},{"date": "2012-03-01T08:35:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "If you are fascinated by the benthos, by marine biodiversity or by the latest applications of modern technology, then you will enjoy this lovely video by the Ocean Networks Canada Observatory. This video captures scenes from their summer and autumn 2011 installation cruises throughout the northeastern Pacific Ocean, just off the coast of southwestern Canada and northwestern United States. In this video, you'll see a variety of beautiful and mysterious deep-sea and benthic creatures, such as gently pulsating jellies and angelic gliding rays, elegant brittle stars and delicate sea fans, and forests of tube worms, affixed to giant black smokers on the sea floor, thriving in sulfur-rich waters with temperatures exceeding a hundred degrees celsius:  Visit Ocean Networks Canada's Vimeo channel [video link]. The Ocean Networks Canada Observatory uses both VENUS and NEPTUNE Canada cabled networks to support research into marine environments ranging from the coast to the deep ocean. It allows for real-time interactive experiments designed to increase our understanding of ocean health, ecosystems, resources, natural hazards, and marine conservation. The Observatory is a national facility led by the University of Victoria on behalf of a pan-Canadian consortium of universities and partners. The Ocean Networks Canada Observatory is on facebook and twitter @ONCCEE The University of Victoria is on facebook and twitter @UVicNews.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. twitter: @GrrlScientist facebook: grrlscientist evil google+: grrlscientist email: grrlscientist@gmail.com", "tags": ["Zoology", "Science", "Marine life", "Biodiversity", "Environment"], "title": "Cruise the NE Pacific with the Ocean Networks Canada Observatory [video] | GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2012-02-20T10:45:42Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has threatened a trade war with European Union over the bloc's plan to label oil from Alberta's vast tar sands as highly polluting, the Guardian can reveal, before a key vote in Brussels on 23 February.\"Canada will not hesitate to defend its interests, including at the World Trade Organisation,\" state letters sent to European commissioners by Canada's ambassador to the EU and its oil minister, released under freedom of information laws.The move is a significant escalation of the row over the EU's plans, which Canada fears would set a global precedent and derail its ability to exploit its tar sands, which are the biggest fossil fuel reserve in the world after Saudi Arabia. Environmental groups argue that exploitation of the tar sands, also called oil sands, is catastrophic for the global climate, as well as causing serious air and water pollution in Alberta.Darek Urbaniak, at Friends of the Earth Europe, which obtained the new documents, said: \"These letters are further evidence of Canadian government and industry lobbying, which continuously undermines efforts to combat climate change. We find it unacceptable that the Canadian government now openly uses direct threats at the highest political levels to derail crucial EU climate legislation.\"The unveiling of Canada's threats is the latest in a series of recent embarrassing revelations. On 12 February, the occurrence of a secret strategy \"retreat\" in London in 2011 was discovered. High-level officials discussed the \"critical\" issue of winning the tar sands argument in the EU, to \"mitigate the impact on the Canadian brand\" and to protect the \"huge investments from the likes of Shell, BP, Total and Statoil\". Representatives of Shell, Total and Statoil attended the meeting alongside the UK's state-owned Royal Bank of Scotland and the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.In December, the Guardian revealed the secret high-level help given to the Canada by the UK government, which included David Cameron discussing the issue with his counterpart Stephen Harper during a visit to Canada, and stating privately that the UK wanted \"to work with Canada on finding a way forward\". Canada's minister for natural resources, Joe Oliver, stated: \"[The British] have been very, very helpful.\"The UK proposed an alternative \"banded\" approach to ascribing carbon emissions to different fuel types, which does not single out tar sands. But environmentalists dismiss it as a delaying tactic and the Guardian understands that the UK has failed to present its proposal formally or provide supporting evidence.In the newly released documents, Canada's ambassador to the EU, David Plunkett, wrote in December to Connie Hedegaard, European commissioner for climate action, about the EU plans under the fuel quality directive (FQD). \"If the final measures single out oil sands crude in a discriminatory, arbitrary or unscientific way, or are otherwise inconsistent with the EU's international trade obligations, I want to state that Canada will explore every avenue at its disposal to defend its interests, including at the World Trade Organisation.\" In October, Oliver wrote to the European commissioner for energy, G\u00fcnther Oettinger and Baroness Catherine Ashton, vice-president of the commission, stating: \"If unjustified, discriminatory measures to implement the fuel quality directive are put in place, Canada will not hesitate to defend its interests.\"A Canadian government spokeswoman told the Guardian: \"We oppose an FQD that discriminates against oil sands crude without strong scientific basis. The oil sands are a proven strategic resource for Canada; we will continue to promote Canada's oil sands as they are key to Canada's economic prosperity and energy security.\"The European Commission disputes the charge that its plans are not based on science. Hedegaard told the Guardian: \"The Commission identified the most carbon-intensive sources in its science-based proposal. This way high-emission fossil fuels will be labelled and given the proper value. It is only reasonable to give high values to more polluting products than to less polluting products. I of course hope the member states will follow the Commission [and vote for] this environmentally sound initiative.\"Colin Baines, toxic fuels campaign manager at the Co-operative, said: \"There is a wealth of independent science stating that tar sands fuels emit significantly more carbon than conventional oil, no matter how many briefings Canada gives claiming otherwise.\" The EU proposal is to label tar sands oil as causing 22% more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional oil on average. The increase results from the energy needed to blast the bitumen from the bedrock and refine it.Baines added: \"The Canadian government's aggressive lobbying and attempted intimidation of the EU is making it look increasingly desperate. But its threat of a WTO challenge faces one massive problem: tar sands oil is not a 'like product' with crude oil so no unlawful discrimination exists under WTO. The EU must adhere to the science and penalise the higher emissions.\"Many European oil companies have major interests in the Canadian tar sands. In January, the Guardian revealed a secret compromise plan that would weaken the impact on tar sands oil, this time from the Netherlands, home of Shell. BP, headquartered in the UK, had already in their own words \"bent the ear\" of the UK's energy minister. Total in France and ENI in Italy also have tar sands interests and those nations are believed to be opposed to the EU plan.If the FQD proposal fails to win the required majority in the vote on Thursday it faces an arduous fight for survival through the European council and parliament. The UK's votes are seen as crucial, but a government spokeswoman declined to say which way the UK would vote. The issue has become a difficult one for the responsible minister, Liberal Democrat Norman Baker, who frequently supports environmental policies. On 10 February, he said: \"For climate change reasons, I do not think it would be helpful to extend our reliance on fossil fuels any more than necessary,\" before a meeting about proposals to extract shale gas using fracking near his constituency in Lewes.His party colleague, Chris Davies MEP, who is the Lib Dem environment spokesman in the European parliament, said: \"It is extraordinarily naive for ministers and officials to take the special pleading by Canada as though it were gospel truth, rather than what it is \u2013 an attempt to protect narrow financial interests.\" In 2009, Simon Hughes MP, and now deputy leader of the Lib Dems said: \"World leaders must work towards a treaty that will outlaw tar sands extraction, in the same way they came together to ban land mines, blood diamonds and cluster bombs.\"In December, Canada unilaterally pulled out of the world's only binding climate change treaty, the Kyoto protocol, having increased its emissions of greenhouse gases by a third instead of reducing them by 6%. In public, the Canadian government claimed that tar sands are \"sustainable\" but in private it has admitted there is no \"credible scientific information\" to support this. Canada suffered a setback in January, when Barack Obama rejected a proposal for a controversial pipeline called Keystone XL to import bring tar sands oil from Alberta, though Republicans in congress are working to reinstate the pipeline.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Environment", "Oil", "Oil", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Canada", "Americas", "World news", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Canada threatens trade war with EU over tar sands"},{"date": "2012-03-20T14:05:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hungarians head to CanadaThe writer Akos Kertesz, 80, has just left his home in Hungary to seek asylum in Canada. In 2011, Ottawa registered almost twice as many applications from Hungarian nationals compared with the previous year, with 4,450 cases, up from 2,350 in 2010, according to Citizenship and Immigration Canada figures.The CIC does not record ethnic data on applicants, but this trend is thought mainly to concern Roma. Immigration minister Jason Kenney wants to tighten up existing legislation. He has also highlighted the paradox that Canada should be seeing more refugees from democratic Europe than from Asia or Africa. As a member of the European Union Hungary counts as a safe country and its nationals do not need a visa to visit Canada. Ottawa is, however about to change this policyvictimised by far-right groups a Roma militant, who has also taken refuge in Canada.A Liberal member of the European Parliament from 2004 to 2009 Ms Mohacsi alerted the media and authorities about the systematic attacks on Hungarian Roma in 2008-9, which claimed six lives and injured 55 others. The trial of four suspects opened almost a year ago in Budapest, but has dragged on, largely ignored by the general public. Mohacsi, jobless and deprived of funding for her human rights organisation, had no option but to leaveThis article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Canada", "Hungary", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "Race issues"], "title": "Twice as many Hungarian asylum seekers in Canada in 2011"},{"date": "2012-03-09T23:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The UK jobs market is an unwelcoming prospect for students preparing to graduate this summer, which is one reason why many are planning to spend the coming year travelling and working in Canada. The Canadian High Commission has just released 5,350 places for this year's International Experience Canada (IEC) working holiday initiative and it has already received an unprecedented number of applications.The chief attraction is that, unlike in Britain, there are plenty of jobs available in Canada for those prepared to be flexible. \"There is a big call for skilled labour in hospitality and construction in the western provinces, Alberta and British Colombia and in Toronto and the ski resorts,\" says Gordon Campbell, Canada's High commissioner to the UK. \"We are one of the economies in the western world that is currently very strong.\"Fiona Brown spent a year in Toronto after graduating with an English and History degree from Edinburgh and says that the experience determined her career path.She says: \"I was unsure what career I wanted so decided to take a year out and hopefully get a sense of direction.\"After a few weeks of temping with an agency she found a permanent \u00a37-an-hour job in a bookshop and volunteered with a charity that supports isolated older people.\"I was matched with a woman who has cerebral palsy and enjoyed the regular visits so much that I applied to do an MA in social work at Warwick University,\" Brown adds.She organised her trip through the overseas work specialist BUNAC which, for a \u00a3254 fee, helps applicants obtain visas and assists with flights, accommodation, job hunting and general support throughout their year there. \"We have two resource centres in Toronto and Vancouver which help people search for jobs and we issue a handbook beforehand and an orientation course on arrival which give advice on living and working in Canada,\" says marketing manager Holly Brooks.\"People can choose to fly out with a group of other people on the Work Canada programme so they can get to know each other, they can be accommodated together in the hostels we use and we organise social events to help them make friends once they're there.\"Those hoping to launch themselves as high fliers in the Canadian financial sector may be disappointed. The IEC visas are for a year only and geared towards more casual work combined with travel. \"Jobs in retail are the easiest to get, although there is demand for more high skilled people,\" says Brooks. \"So long as you're flexible about what kind of work you'll accept, it's unlikely that you won't find a job within the first three weeks.\"This year's increased demand means that visa applications to the Canadian High Commission may take longer than the usual eight weeks to process.When Fiona Brown completes her MA this summer she intends to apply for a work visa and return to Canada for good.She says: \"I love the whole lifestyle there. Everyone is so friendly and they're fascinated by the British accent which made me stand out in the group interview for the bookshop job.\"I went out there because I thought it would be an adventure, but that year gave me a sense of my future.\"", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Job hunting", "Work & careers", "Money", "Canada", "World news"], "title": "Can't find a graduate job? Look to Canada"},{"date": "2012-03-01T08:35:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "If you are fascinated by the benthos, by marine biodiversity or by the latest applications of modern technology, then you will enjoy this lovely video by the Ocean Networks Canada Observatory. This video captures scenes from their summer and autumn 2011 installation cruises throughout the northeastern Pacific Ocean, just off the coast of southwestern Canada and northwestern United States. In this video, you'll see a variety of beautiful and mysterious deep-sea and benthic creatures, such as gently pulsating jellies and angelic gliding rays, elegant brittle stars and delicate sea fans, and forests of tube worms, affixed to giant black smokers on the sea floor, thriving in sulfur-rich waters with temperatures exceeding a hundred degrees celsius:  Visit Ocean Networks Canada's Vimeo channel [video link]. The Ocean Networks Canada Observatory uses both VENUS and NEPTUNE Canada cabled networks to support research into marine environments ranging from the coast to the deep ocean. It allows for real-time interactive experiments designed to increase our understanding of ocean health, ecosystems, resources, natural hazards, and marine conservation. The Observatory is a national facility led by the University of Victoria on behalf of a pan-Canadian consortium of universities and partners. The Ocean Networks Canada Observatory is on facebook and twitter @ONCCEE The University of Victoria is on facebook and twitter @UVicNews.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. twitter: @GrrlScientist facebook: grrlscientist evil google+: grrlscientist email: grrlscientist@gmail.com", "tags": ["Zoology", "Science", "Marine life", "Biodiversity", "Environment"], "title": "Cruise the NE Pacific with the Ocean Networks Canada Observatory [video] | GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2012-02-20T10:45:42Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has threatened a trade war with European Union over the bloc's plan to label oil from Alberta's vast tar sands as highly polluting, the Guardian can reveal, before a key vote in Brussels on 23 February.\"Canada will not hesitate to defend its interests, including at the World Trade Organisation,\" state letters sent to European commissioners by Canada's ambassador to the EU and its oil minister, released under freedom of information laws.The move is a significant escalation of the row over the EU's plans, which Canada fears would set a global precedent and derail its ability to exploit its tar sands, which are the biggest fossil fuel reserve in the world after Saudi Arabia. Environmental groups argue that exploitation of the tar sands, also called oil sands, is catastrophic for the global climate, as well as causing serious air and water pollution in Alberta.Darek Urbaniak, at Friends of the Earth Europe, which obtained the new documents, said: \"These letters are further evidence of Canadian government and industry lobbying, which continuously undermines efforts to combat climate change. We find it unacceptable that the Canadian government now openly uses direct threats at the highest political levels to derail crucial EU climate legislation.\"The unveiling of Canada's threats is the latest in a series of recent embarrassing revelations. On 12 February, the occurrence of a secret strategy \"retreat\" in London in 2011 was discovered. High-level officials discussed the \"critical\" issue of winning the tar sands argument in the EU, to \"mitigate the impact on the Canadian brand\" and to protect the \"huge investments from the likes of Shell, BP, Total and Statoil\". Representatives of Shell, Total and Statoil attended the meeting alongside the UK's state-owned Royal Bank of Scotland and the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.In December, the Guardian revealed the secret high-level help given to the Canada by the UK government, which included David Cameron discussing the issue with his counterpart Stephen Harper during a visit to Canada, and stating privately that the UK wanted \"to work with Canada on finding a way forward\". Canada's minister for natural resources, Joe Oliver, stated: \"[The British] have been very, very helpful.\"The UK proposed an alternative \"banded\" approach to ascribing carbon emissions to different fuel types, which does not single out tar sands. But environmentalists dismiss it as a delaying tactic and the Guardian understands that the UK has failed to present its proposal formally or provide supporting evidence.In the newly released documents, Canada's ambassador to the EU, David Plunkett, wrote in December to Connie Hedegaard, European commissioner for climate action, about the EU plans under the fuel quality directive (FQD). \"If the final measures single out oil sands crude in a discriminatory, arbitrary or unscientific way, or are otherwise inconsistent with the EU's international trade obligations, I want to state that Canada will explore every avenue at its disposal to defend its interests, including at the World Trade Organisation.\" In October, Oliver wrote to the European commissioner for energy, G\u00fcnther Oettinger and Baroness Catherine Ashton, vice-president of the commission, stating: \"If unjustified, discriminatory measures to implement the fuel quality directive are put in place, Canada will not hesitate to defend its interests.\"A Canadian government spokeswoman told the Guardian: \"We oppose an FQD that discriminates against oil sands crude without strong scientific basis. The oil sands are a proven strategic resource for Canada; we will continue to promote Canada's oil sands as they are key to Canada's economic prosperity and energy security.\"The European Commission disputes the charge that its plans are not based on science. Hedegaard told the Guardian: \"The Commission identified the most carbon-intensive sources in its science-based proposal. This way high-emission fossil fuels will be labelled and given the proper value. It is only reasonable to give high values to more polluting products than to less polluting products. I of course hope the member states will follow the Commission [and vote for] this environmentally sound initiative.\"Colin Baines, toxic fuels campaign manager at the Co-operative, said: \"There is a wealth of independent science stating that tar sands fuels emit significantly more carbon than conventional oil, no matter how many briefings Canada gives claiming otherwise.\" The EU proposal is to label tar sands oil as causing 22% more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional oil on average. The increase results from the energy needed to blast the bitumen from the bedrock and refine it.Baines added: \"The Canadian government's aggressive lobbying and attempted intimidation of the EU is making it look increasingly desperate. But its threat of a WTO challenge faces one massive problem: tar sands oil is not a 'like product' with crude oil so no unlawful discrimination exists under WTO. The EU must adhere to the science and penalise the higher emissions.\"Many European oil companies have major interests in the Canadian tar sands. In January, the Guardian revealed a secret compromise plan that would weaken the impact on tar sands oil, this time from the Netherlands, home of Shell. BP, headquartered in the UK, had already in their own words \"bent the ear\" of the UK's energy minister. Total in France and ENI in Italy also have tar sands interests and those nations are believed to be opposed to the EU plan.If the FQD proposal fails to win the required majority in the vote on Thursday it faces an arduous fight for survival through the European council and parliament. The UK's votes are seen as crucial, but a government spokeswoman declined to say which way the UK would vote. The issue has become a difficult one for the responsible minister, Liberal Democrat Norman Baker, who frequently supports environmental policies. On 10 February, he said: \"For climate change reasons, I do not think it would be helpful to extend our reliance on fossil fuels any more than necessary,\" before a meeting about proposals to extract shale gas using fracking near his constituency in Lewes.His party colleague, Chris Davies MEP, who is the Lib Dem environment spokesman in the European parliament, said: \"It is extraordinarily naive for ministers and officials to take the special pleading by Canada as though it were gospel truth, rather than what it is \u2013 an attempt to protect narrow financial interests.\" In 2009, Simon Hughes MP, and now deputy leader of the Lib Dems said: \"World leaders must work towards a treaty that will outlaw tar sands extraction, in the same way they came together to ban land mines, blood diamonds and cluster bombs.\"In December, Canada unilaterally pulled out of the world's only binding climate change treaty, the Kyoto protocol, having increased its emissions of greenhouse gases by a third instead of reducing them by 6%. In public, the Canadian government claimed that tar sands are \"sustainable\" but in private it has admitted there is no \"credible scientific information\" to support this. Canada suffered a setback in January, when Barack Obama rejected a proposal for a controversial pipeline called Keystone XL to import bring tar sands oil from Alberta, though Republicans in congress are working to reinstate the pipeline.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Environment", "Oil", "Oil", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Canada", "Americas", "World news", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Canada threatens trade war with EU over tar sands"},{"date": "2012-02-08T17:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": " Foreground: cackling goose, Branta hutchinsii (synonym, Branta canadensis hutchinsii; protonym, Anser Hutchinsii), Richardson, 1832, also known as the Baffin Canada goose, Hutchins's goose, Richardson Canada goose, lesser Canada goose or as the tundra goose. Background: Canada goose, Branta canadensis (protonym, Anas canadensis) Linnaeus, 1758, also known as the Atlantic Canada goose, eastern Canada goose, or as the greater Canada goose, photographed at Lake Washington, Seattle, Washington (USA). Image: Doug Schurman, 22 January 2012 (with permission) [velociraptorize].Canon 7D with the Canon 400mm f5.6 lens  Question: These common North American mystery birds are strikingly different in size despite having the same colours and patterns. Why? Are these parent birds with one of their chicks? Are they different subspecies or are they two different species? Can you identify the taxonomic family and species for these birds?Response: These similar-looking birds are actually adults of two different species, according to DNA work. The species are the cackling goose, Branta hutchinsii (foreground) and a pair of Canada geese, Branta canadensis (background). Individuals at the opposite size extremes for the two species (as in this image) are easy to identify, however, there is considerable size overlap for several subspecies, which then is interesting for those who love to spend hours studying flocks consisting of hundreds or thousands of individual birds. The cackling/Canada goose is an iconic species that is native to arctic and temperate regions of North America. They have a black head and neck, white patches on the face, and a brownish-gray body. They are herbivorous and monogamous, and the sexes look the same, although males may be slightly larger. Cackling geese breed farther north and west in the Canadian tundra than does the Canada goose, which of course, means that gene flow between these populations is severely minimized. In 2004, the cackling goose was elevated to a full species comprising four extant and one extinct subspecies, some of which overlap in size with their sister species, the Canada goose. This of course, means the largest subspecies of cackling goose, B. h. taverneri and some individuals of the highly size-variable subspecies, B. h. hutchinsii, may in fact be larger than the smallest subspecies of Canada goose, B. c. parvipes. Unless one is looking at a small cackling goose or a large Canada goose, identifying which species and subspecies that one is looking at can be very challenging (and may in fact be impossible) for some locations where many subspecies occur. That said, conscientious birders will carefully note features that may be useful for identifying subspecies since this information can help scientists better understand the habits of these populations. Important features to note include the tone (paleness or darkness) of the plumage (especially the breast and underparts), bill size, neck length, presence or absence of a \"collar\" at the base of the neck and the presence or absence of a dark chinstrap. Here is a useful online table comparing common cackling/Canada goose subspecies that can be seen in the Pacific Northwet (this was designed to test goose hunters before they get their hunting license) and this linked PDF is a helpful table of characters that can be used to distinguish the two species and to identify their currently recognised subspecies. Distinguishing between two species and a dozen or so subspecies seems like a lot, doesn't it? But at least a few authorities consider the \"white cheeked goose\" species complex to actually consist of six species with more than 200 subspecies! Unfortunately, I have been unable to get copies of those papers, so I cannot tell you more than to scare you with that rumour. Clearly, the Canada/cackling goose species complex is, well, complex, and likely will be the subject of more DNA work (and controversy) in the near future. You are invited to review all of the daily mystery birds by going to their dedicated graphic index page. If you have bird images, video or mp3 files that you'd like to share with a large and (mostly) appreciative international audience here at The Guardian, feel free to contact me to learn more. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. twitter: @GrrlScientist facebook: grrlscientistevil google+: grrlscientistemail: grrlscientist@gmail.com", "tags": ["Science"], "title": "Mystery bird: Canada goose, Branta canadensis & cackling goose, B. hutchinsii | @GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2012-03-20T14:05:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hungarians head to CanadaThe writer Akos Kertesz, 80, has just left his home in Hungary to seek asylum in Canada. In 2011, Ottawa registered almost twice as many applications from Hungarian nationals compared with the previous year, with 4,450 cases, up from 2,350 in 2010, according to Citizenship and Immigration Canada figures.The CIC does not record ethnic data on applicants, but this trend is thought mainly to concern Roma. Immigration minister Jason Kenney wants to tighten up existing legislation. He has also highlighted the paradox that Canada should be seeing more refugees from democratic Europe than from Asia or Africa. As a member of the European Union Hungary counts as a safe country and its nationals do not need a visa to visit Canada. Ottawa is, however about to change this policyvictimised by far-right groups a Roma militant, who has also taken refuge in Canada.A Liberal member of the European Parliament from 2004 to 2009 Ms Mohacsi alerted the media and authorities about the systematic attacks on Hungarian Roma in 2008-9, which claimed six lives and injured 55 others. The trial of four suspects opened almost a year ago in Budapest, but has dragged on, largely ignored by the general public. Mohacsi, jobless and deprived of funding for her human rights organisation, had no option but to leaveThis article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Canada", "Hungary", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "Race issues"], "title": "Twice as many Hungarian asylum seekers in Canada in 2011"},{"date": "2012-03-09T23:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The UK jobs market is an unwelcoming prospect for students preparing to graduate this summer, which is one reason why many are planning to spend the coming year travelling and working in Canada. The Canadian High Commission has just released 5,350 places for this year's International Experience Canada (IEC) working holiday initiative and it has already received an unprecedented number of applications.The chief attraction is that, unlike in Britain, there are plenty of jobs available in Canada for those prepared to be flexible. \"There is a big call for skilled labour in hospitality and construction in the western provinces, Alberta and British Colombia and in Toronto and the ski resorts,\" says Gordon Campbell, Canada's High commissioner to the UK. \"We are one of the economies in the western world that is currently very strong.\"Fiona Brown spent a year in Toronto after graduating with an English and History degree from Edinburgh and says that the experience determined her career path.She says: \"I was unsure what career I wanted so decided to take a year out and hopefully get a sense of direction.\"After a few weeks of temping with an agency she found a permanent \u00a37-an-hour job in a bookshop and volunteered with a charity that supports isolated older people.\"I was matched with a woman who has cerebral palsy and enjoyed the regular visits so much that I applied to do an MA in social work at Warwick University,\" Brown adds.She organised her trip through the overseas work specialist BUNAC which, for a \u00a3254 fee, helps applicants obtain visas and assists with flights, accommodation, job hunting and general support throughout their year there. \"We have two resource centres in Toronto and Vancouver which help people search for jobs and we issue a handbook beforehand and an orientation course on arrival which give advice on living and working in Canada,\" says marketing manager Holly Brooks.\"People can choose to fly out with a group of other people on the Work Canada programme so they can get to know each other, they can be accommodated together in the hostels we use and we organise social events to help them make friends once they're there.\"Those hoping to launch themselves as high fliers in the Canadian financial sector may be disappointed. The IEC visas are for a year only and geared towards more casual work combined with travel. \"Jobs in retail are the easiest to get, although there is demand for more high skilled people,\" says Brooks. \"So long as you're flexible about what kind of work you'll accept, it's unlikely that you won't find a job within the first three weeks.\"This year's increased demand means that visa applications to the Canadian High Commission may take longer than the usual eight weeks to process.When Fiona Brown completes her MA this summer she intends to apply for a work visa and return to Canada for good.She says: \"I love the whole lifestyle there. Everyone is so friendly and they're fascinated by the British accent which made me stand out in the group interview for the bookshop job.\"I went out there because I thought it would be an adventure, but that year gave me a sense of my future.\"", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Job hunting", "Work & careers", "Money", "Canada", "World news"], "title": "Can't find a graduate job? Look to Canada"},{"date": "2012-03-01T08:35:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "If you are fascinated by the benthos, by marine biodiversity or by the latest applications of modern technology, then you will enjoy this lovely video by the Ocean Networks Canada Observatory. This video captures scenes from their summer and autumn 2011 installation cruises throughout the northeastern Pacific Ocean, just off the coast of southwestern Canada and northwestern United States. In this video, you'll see a variety of beautiful and mysterious deep-sea and benthic creatures, such as gently pulsating jellies and angelic gliding rays, elegant brittle stars and delicate sea fans, and forests of tube worms, affixed to giant black smokers on the sea floor, thriving in sulfur-rich waters with temperatures exceeding a hundred degrees celsius:  Visit Ocean Networks Canada's Vimeo channel [video link]. The Ocean Networks Canada Observatory uses both VENUS and NEPTUNE Canada cabled networks to support research into marine environments ranging from the coast to the deep ocean. It allows for real-time interactive experiments designed to increase our understanding of ocean health, ecosystems, resources, natural hazards, and marine conservation. The Observatory is a national facility led by the University of Victoria on behalf of a pan-Canadian consortium of universities and partners. The Ocean Networks Canada Observatory is on facebook and twitter @ONCCEE The University of Victoria is on facebook and twitter @UVicNews.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. twitter: @GrrlScientist facebook: grrlscientist evil google+: grrlscientist email: grrlscientist@gmail.com", "tags": ["Zoology", "Science", "Marine life", "Biodiversity", "Environment"], "title": "Cruise the NE Pacific with the Ocean Networks Canada Observatory [video] | GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2012-02-20T10:45:42Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has threatened a trade war with European Union over the bloc's plan to label oil from Alberta's vast tar sands as highly polluting, the Guardian can reveal, before a key vote in Brussels on 23 February.\"Canada will not hesitate to defend its interests, including at the World Trade Organisation,\" state letters sent to European commissioners by Canada's ambassador to the EU and its oil minister, released under freedom of information laws.The move is a significant escalation of the row over the EU's plans, which Canada fears would set a global precedent and derail its ability to exploit its tar sands, which are the biggest fossil fuel reserve in the world after Saudi Arabia. Environmental groups argue that exploitation of the tar sands, also called oil sands, is catastrophic for the global climate, as well as causing serious air and water pollution in Alberta.Darek Urbaniak, at Friends of the Earth Europe, which obtained the new documents, said: \"These letters are further evidence of Canadian government and industry lobbying, which continuously undermines efforts to combat climate change. We find it unacceptable that the Canadian government now openly uses direct threats at the highest political levels to derail crucial EU climate legislation.\"The unveiling of Canada's threats is the latest in a series of recent embarrassing revelations. On 12 February, the occurrence of a secret strategy \"retreat\" in London in 2011 was discovered. High-level officials discussed the \"critical\" issue of winning the tar sands argument in the EU, to \"mitigate the impact on the Canadian brand\" and to protect the \"huge investments from the likes of Shell, BP, Total and Statoil\". Representatives of Shell, Total and Statoil attended the meeting alongside the UK's state-owned Royal Bank of Scotland and the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.In December, the Guardian revealed the secret high-level help given to the Canada by the UK government, which included David Cameron discussing the issue with his counterpart Stephen Harper during a visit to Canada, and stating privately that the UK wanted \"to work with Canada on finding a way forward\". Canada's minister for natural resources, Joe Oliver, stated: \"[The British] have been very, very helpful.\"The UK proposed an alternative \"banded\" approach to ascribing carbon emissions to different fuel types, which does not single out tar sands. But environmentalists dismiss it as a delaying tactic and the Guardian understands that the UK has failed to present its proposal formally or provide supporting evidence.In the newly released documents, Canada's ambassador to the EU, David Plunkett, wrote in December to Connie Hedegaard, European commissioner for climate action, about the EU plans under the fuel quality directive (FQD). \"If the final measures single out oil sands crude in a discriminatory, arbitrary or unscientific way, or are otherwise inconsistent with the EU's international trade obligations, I want to state that Canada will explore every avenue at its disposal to defend its interests, including at the World Trade Organisation.\" In October, Oliver wrote to the European commissioner for energy, G\u00fcnther Oettinger and Baroness Catherine Ashton, vice-president of the commission, stating: \"If unjustified, discriminatory measures to implement the fuel quality directive are put in place, Canada will not hesitate to defend its interests.\"A Canadian government spokeswoman told the Guardian: \"We oppose an FQD that discriminates against oil sands crude without strong scientific basis. The oil sands are a proven strategic resource for Canada; we will continue to promote Canada's oil sands as they are key to Canada's economic prosperity and energy security.\"The European Commission disputes the charge that its plans are not based on science. Hedegaard told the Guardian: \"The Commission identified the most carbon-intensive sources in its science-based proposal. This way high-emission fossil fuels will be labelled and given the proper value. It is only reasonable to give high values to more polluting products than to less polluting products. I of course hope the member states will follow the Commission [and vote for] this environmentally sound initiative.\"Colin Baines, toxic fuels campaign manager at the Co-operative, said: \"There is a wealth of independent science stating that tar sands fuels emit significantly more carbon than conventional oil, no matter how many briefings Canada gives claiming otherwise.\" The EU proposal is to label tar sands oil as causing 22% more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional oil on average. The increase results from the energy needed to blast the bitumen from the bedrock and refine it.Baines added: \"The Canadian government's aggressive lobbying and attempted intimidation of the EU is making it look increasingly desperate. But its threat of a WTO challenge faces one massive problem: tar sands oil is not a 'like product' with crude oil so no unlawful discrimination exists under WTO. The EU must adhere to the science and penalise the higher emissions.\"Many European oil companies have major interests in the Canadian tar sands. In January, the Guardian revealed a secret compromise plan that would weaken the impact on tar sands oil, this time from the Netherlands, home of Shell. BP, headquartered in the UK, had already in their own words \"bent the ear\" of the UK's energy minister. Total in France and ENI in Italy also have tar sands interests and those nations are believed to be opposed to the EU plan.If the FQD proposal fails to win the required majority in the vote on Thursday it faces an arduous fight for survival through the European council and parliament. The UK's votes are seen as crucial, but a government spokeswoman declined to say which way the UK would vote. The issue has become a difficult one for the responsible minister, Liberal Democrat Norman Baker, who frequently supports environmental policies. On 10 February, he said: \"For climate change reasons, I do not think it would be helpful to extend our reliance on fossil fuels any more than necessary,\" before a meeting about proposals to extract shale gas using fracking near his constituency in Lewes.His party colleague, Chris Davies MEP, who is the Lib Dem environment spokesman in the European parliament, said: \"It is extraordinarily naive for ministers and officials to take the special pleading by Canada as though it were gospel truth, rather than what it is \u2013 an attempt to protect narrow financial interests.\" In 2009, Simon Hughes MP, and now deputy leader of the Lib Dems said: \"World leaders must work towards a treaty that will outlaw tar sands extraction, in the same way they came together to ban land mines, blood diamonds and cluster bombs.\"In December, Canada unilaterally pulled out of the world's only binding climate change treaty, the Kyoto protocol, having increased its emissions of greenhouse gases by a third instead of reducing them by 6%. In public, the Canadian government claimed that tar sands are \"sustainable\" but in private it has admitted there is no \"credible scientific information\" to support this. Canada suffered a setback in January, when Barack Obama rejected a proposal for a controversial pipeline called Keystone XL to import bring tar sands oil from Alberta, though Republicans in congress are working to reinstate the pipeline.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Environment", "Oil", "Oil", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Canada", "Americas", "World news", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Canada threatens trade war with EU over tar sands"},{"date": "2012-02-08T17:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": " Foreground: cackling goose, Branta hutchinsii (synonym, Branta canadensis hutchinsii; protonym, Anser Hutchinsii), Richardson, 1832, also known as the Baffin Canada goose, Hutchins's goose, Richardson Canada goose, lesser Canada goose or as the tundra goose. Background: Canada goose, Branta canadensis (protonym, Anas canadensis) Linnaeus, 1758, also known as the Atlantic Canada goose, eastern Canada goose, or as the greater Canada goose, photographed at Lake Washington, Seattle, Washington (USA). Image: Doug Schurman, 22 January 2012 (with permission) [velociraptorize].Canon 7D with the Canon 400mm f5.6 lens  Question: These common North American mystery birds are strikingly different in size despite having the same colours and patterns. Why? Are these parent birds with one of their chicks? Are they different subspecies or are they two different species? Can you identify the taxonomic family and species for these birds?Response: These similar-looking birds are actually adults of two different species, according to DNA work. The species are the cackling goose, Branta hutchinsii (foreground) and a pair of Canada geese, Branta canadensis (background). Individuals at the opposite size extremes for the two species (as in this image) are easy to identify, however, there is considerable size overlap for several subspecies, which then is interesting for those who love to spend hours studying flocks consisting of hundreds or thousands of individual birds. The cackling/Canada goose is an iconic species that is native to arctic and temperate regions of North America. They have a black head and neck, white patches on the face, and a brownish-gray body. They are herbivorous and monogamous, and the sexes look the same, although males may be slightly larger. Cackling geese breed farther north and west in the Canadian tundra than does the Canada goose, which of course, means that gene flow between these populations is severely minimized. In 2004, the cackling goose was elevated to a full species comprising four extant and one extinct subspecies, some of which overlap in size with their sister species, the Canada goose. This of course, means the largest subspecies of cackling goose, B. h. taverneri and some individuals of the highly size-variable subspecies, B. h. hutchinsii, may in fact be larger than the smallest subspecies of Canada goose, B. c. parvipes. Unless one is looking at a small cackling goose or a large Canada goose, identifying which species and subspecies that one is looking at can be very challenging (and may in fact be impossible) for some locations where many subspecies occur. That said, conscientious birders will carefully note features that may be useful for identifying subspecies since this information can help scientists better understand the habits of these populations. Important features to note include the tone (paleness or darkness) of the plumage (especially the breast and underparts), bill size, neck length, presence or absence of a \"collar\" at the base of the neck and the presence or absence of a dark chinstrap. Here is a useful online table comparing common cackling/Canada goose subspecies that can be seen in the Pacific Northwet (this was designed to test goose hunters before they get their hunting license) and this linked PDF is a helpful table of characters that can be used to distinguish the two species and to identify their currently recognised subspecies. Distinguishing between two species and a dozen or so subspecies seems like a lot, doesn't it? But at least a few authorities consider the \"white cheeked goose\" species complex to actually consist of six species with more than 200 subspecies! Unfortunately, I have been unable to get copies of those papers, so I cannot tell you more than to scare you with that rumour. Clearly, the Canada/cackling goose species complex is, well, complex, and likely will be the subject of more DNA work (and controversy) in the near future. You are invited to review all of the daily mystery birds by going to their dedicated graphic index page. If you have bird images, video or mp3 files that you'd like to share with a large and (mostly) appreciative international audience here at The Guardian, feel free to contact me to learn more. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. twitter: @GrrlScientist facebook: grrlscientistevil google+: grrlscientistemail: grrlscientist@gmail.com", "tags": ["Science"], "title": "Mystery bird: Canada goose, Branta canadensis & cackling goose, B. hutchinsii | @GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2012-01-17T09:15:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's government has agreed to lift election-night blackouts on election results. In future, it will allow federal election results to be released as they become available instead of making Canadians wait for the last polls to close on the west coast.It bowed to the inevitable after tweeters defied the ban during elections last May, relaying results from the east before the final votes were cast in the western province of British Columbia.The repeal of the 70-year-old section of the Canada Elections Act was announced on Twitter - where else? - by government minister Tim Uppal.It was time, he said, to bring Canadian elections into the 21st century by getting rid of an outdated and unenforceable law.Sources: Globe & Mail/National Post/CBC", "tags": ["Media", "Canada", "Twitter", "Press freedom"], "title": "Canada gives in to tweeters by lifting election reporting ban"},{"date": "2012-03-20T14:05:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hungarians head to CanadaThe writer Akos Kertesz, 80, has just left his home in Hungary to seek asylum in Canada. In 2011, Ottawa registered almost twice as many applications from Hungarian nationals compared with the previous year, with 4,450 cases, up from 2,350 in 2010, according to Citizenship and Immigration Canada figures.The CIC does not record ethnic data on applicants, but this trend is thought mainly to concern Roma. Immigration minister Jason Kenney wants to tighten up existing legislation. He has also highlighted the paradox that Canada should be seeing more refugees from democratic Europe than from Asia or Africa. As a member of the European Union Hungary counts as a safe country and its nationals do not need a visa to visit Canada. Ottawa is, however about to change this policyvictimised by far-right groups a Roma militant, who has also taken refuge in Canada.A Liberal member of the European Parliament from 2004 to 2009 Ms Mohacsi alerted the media and authorities about the systematic attacks on Hungarian Roma in 2008-9, which claimed six lives and injured 55 others. The trial of four suspects opened almost a year ago in Budapest, but has dragged on, largely ignored by the general public. Mohacsi, jobless and deprived of funding for her human rights organisation, had no option but to leaveThis article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Canada", "Hungary", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "Race issues"], "title": "Twice as many Hungarian asylum seekers in Canada in 2011"},{"date": "2012-03-09T23:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The UK jobs market is an unwelcoming prospect for students preparing to graduate this summer, which is one reason why many are planning to spend the coming year travelling and working in Canada. The Canadian High Commission has just released 5,350 places for this year's International Experience Canada (IEC) working holiday initiative and it has already received an unprecedented number of applications.The chief attraction is that, unlike in Britain, there are plenty of jobs available in Canada for those prepared to be flexible. \"There is a big call for skilled labour in hospitality and construction in the western provinces, Alberta and British Colombia and in Toronto and the ski resorts,\" says Gordon Campbell, Canada's High commissioner to the UK. \"We are one of the economies in the western world that is currently very strong.\"Fiona Brown spent a year in Toronto after graduating with an English and History degree from Edinburgh and says that the experience determined her career path.She says: \"I was unsure what career I wanted so decided to take a year out and hopefully get a sense of direction.\"After a few weeks of temping with an agency she found a permanent \u00a37-an-hour job in a bookshop and volunteered with a charity that supports isolated older people.\"I was matched with a woman who has cerebral palsy and enjoyed the regular visits so much that I applied to do an MA in social work at Warwick University,\" Brown adds.She organised her trip through the overseas work specialist BUNAC which, for a \u00a3254 fee, helps applicants obtain visas and assists with flights, accommodation, job hunting and general support throughout their year there. \"We have two resource centres in Toronto and Vancouver which help people search for jobs and we issue a handbook beforehand and an orientation course on arrival which give advice on living and working in Canada,\" says marketing manager Holly Brooks.\"People can choose to fly out with a group of other people on the Work Canada programme so they can get to know each other, they can be accommodated together in the hostels we use and we organise social events to help them make friends once they're there.\"Those hoping to launch themselves as high fliers in the Canadian financial sector may be disappointed. The IEC visas are for a year only and geared towards more casual work combined with travel. \"Jobs in retail are the easiest to get, although there is demand for more high skilled people,\" says Brooks. \"So long as you're flexible about what kind of work you'll accept, it's unlikely that you won't find a job within the first three weeks.\"This year's increased demand means that visa applications to the Canadian High Commission may take longer than the usual eight weeks to process.When Fiona Brown completes her MA this summer she intends to apply for a work visa and return to Canada for good.She says: \"I love the whole lifestyle there. Everyone is so friendly and they're fascinated by the British accent which made me stand out in the group interview for the bookshop job.\"I went out there because I thought it would be an adventure, but that year gave me a sense of my future.\"", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Job hunting", "Work & careers", "Money", "Canada", "World news"], "title": "Can't find a graduate job? Look to Canada"},{"date": "2012-03-01T08:35:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "If you are fascinated by the benthos, by marine biodiversity or by the latest applications of modern technology, then you will enjoy this lovely video by the Ocean Networks Canada Observatory. This video captures scenes from their summer and autumn 2011 installation cruises throughout the northeastern Pacific Ocean, just off the coast of southwestern Canada and northwestern United States. In this video, you'll see a variety of beautiful and mysterious deep-sea and benthic creatures, such as gently pulsating jellies and angelic gliding rays, elegant brittle stars and delicate sea fans, and forests of tube worms, affixed to giant black smokers on the sea floor, thriving in sulfur-rich waters with temperatures exceeding a hundred degrees celsius:  Visit Ocean Networks Canada's Vimeo channel [video link]. The Ocean Networks Canada Observatory uses both VENUS and NEPTUNE Canada cabled networks to support research into marine environments ranging from the coast to the deep ocean. It allows for real-time interactive experiments designed to increase our understanding of ocean health, ecosystems, resources, natural hazards, and marine conservation. The Observatory is a national facility led by the University of Victoria on behalf of a pan-Canadian consortium of universities and partners. The Ocean Networks Canada Observatory is on facebook and twitter @ONCCEE The University of Victoria is on facebook and twitter @UVicNews.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. twitter: @GrrlScientist facebook: grrlscientist evil google+: grrlscientist email: grrlscientist@gmail.com", "tags": ["Zoology", "Science", "Marine life", "Biodiversity", "Environment"], "title": "Cruise the NE Pacific with the Ocean Networks Canada Observatory [video] | GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2012-02-20T10:45:42Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has threatened a trade war with European Union over the bloc's plan to label oil from Alberta's vast tar sands as highly polluting, the Guardian can reveal, before a key vote in Brussels on 23 February.\"Canada will not hesitate to defend its interests, including at the World Trade Organisation,\" state letters sent to European commissioners by Canada's ambassador to the EU and its oil minister, released under freedom of information laws.The move is a significant escalation of the row over the EU's plans, which Canada fears would set a global precedent and derail its ability to exploit its tar sands, which are the biggest fossil fuel reserve in the world after Saudi Arabia. Environmental groups argue that exploitation of the tar sands, also called oil sands, is catastrophic for the global climate, as well as causing serious air and water pollution in Alberta.Darek Urbaniak, at Friends of the Earth Europe, which obtained the new documents, said: \"These letters are further evidence of Canadian government and industry lobbying, which continuously undermines efforts to combat climate change. We find it unacceptable that the Canadian government now openly uses direct threats at the highest political levels to derail crucial EU climate legislation.\"The unveiling of Canada's threats is the latest in a series of recent embarrassing revelations. On 12 February, the occurrence of a secret strategy \"retreat\" in London in 2011 was discovered. High-level officials discussed the \"critical\" issue of winning the tar sands argument in the EU, to \"mitigate the impact on the Canadian brand\" and to protect the \"huge investments from the likes of Shell, BP, Total and Statoil\". Representatives of Shell, Total and Statoil attended the meeting alongside the UK's state-owned Royal Bank of Scotland and the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.In December, the Guardian revealed the secret high-level help given to the Canada by the UK government, which included David Cameron discussing the issue with his counterpart Stephen Harper during a visit to Canada, and stating privately that the UK wanted \"to work with Canada on finding a way forward\". Canada's minister for natural resources, Joe Oliver, stated: \"[The British] have been very, very helpful.\"The UK proposed an alternative \"banded\" approach to ascribing carbon emissions to different fuel types, which does not single out tar sands. But environmentalists dismiss it as a delaying tactic and the Guardian understands that the UK has failed to present its proposal formally or provide supporting evidence.In the newly released documents, Canada's ambassador to the EU, David Plunkett, wrote in December to Connie Hedegaard, European commissioner for climate action, about the EU plans under the fuel quality directive (FQD). \"If the final measures single out oil sands crude in a discriminatory, arbitrary or unscientific way, or are otherwise inconsistent with the EU's international trade obligations, I want to state that Canada will explore every avenue at its disposal to defend its interests, including at the World Trade Organisation.\" In October, Oliver wrote to the European commissioner for energy, G\u00fcnther Oettinger and Baroness Catherine Ashton, vice-president of the commission, stating: \"If unjustified, discriminatory measures to implement the fuel quality directive are put in place, Canada will not hesitate to defend its interests.\"A Canadian government spokeswoman told the Guardian: \"We oppose an FQD that discriminates against oil sands crude without strong scientific basis. The oil sands are a proven strategic resource for Canada; we will continue to promote Canada's oil sands as they are key to Canada's economic prosperity and energy security.\"The European Commission disputes the charge that its plans are not based on science. Hedegaard told the Guardian: \"The Commission identified the most carbon-intensive sources in its science-based proposal. This way high-emission fossil fuels will be labelled and given the proper value. It is only reasonable to give high values to more polluting products than to less polluting products. I of course hope the member states will follow the Commission [and vote for] this environmentally sound initiative.\"Colin Baines, toxic fuels campaign manager at the Co-operative, said: \"There is a wealth of independent science stating that tar sands fuels emit significantly more carbon than conventional oil, no matter how many briefings Canada gives claiming otherwise.\" The EU proposal is to label tar sands oil as causing 22% more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional oil on average. The increase results from the energy needed to blast the bitumen from the bedrock and refine it.Baines added: \"The Canadian government's aggressive lobbying and attempted intimidation of the EU is making it look increasingly desperate. But its threat of a WTO challenge faces one massive problem: tar sands oil is not a 'like product' with crude oil so no unlawful discrimination exists under WTO. The EU must adhere to the science and penalise the higher emissions.\"Many European oil companies have major interests in the Canadian tar sands. In January, the Guardian revealed a secret compromise plan that would weaken the impact on tar sands oil, this time from the Netherlands, home of Shell. BP, headquartered in the UK, had already in their own words \"bent the ear\" of the UK's energy minister. Total in France and ENI in Italy also have tar sands interests and those nations are believed to be opposed to the EU plan.If the FQD proposal fails to win the required majority in the vote on Thursday it faces an arduous fight for survival through the European council and parliament. The UK's votes are seen as crucial, but a government spokeswoman declined to say which way the UK would vote. The issue has become a difficult one for the responsible minister, Liberal Democrat Norman Baker, who frequently supports environmental policies. On 10 February, he said: \"For climate change reasons, I do not think it would be helpful to extend our reliance on fossil fuels any more than necessary,\" before a meeting about proposals to extract shale gas using fracking near his constituency in Lewes.His party colleague, Chris Davies MEP, who is the Lib Dem environment spokesman in the European parliament, said: \"It is extraordinarily naive for ministers and officials to take the special pleading by Canada as though it were gospel truth, rather than what it is \u2013 an attempt to protect narrow financial interests.\" In 2009, Simon Hughes MP, and now deputy leader of the Lib Dems said: \"World leaders must work towards a treaty that will outlaw tar sands extraction, in the same way they came together to ban land mines, blood diamonds and cluster bombs.\"In December, Canada unilaterally pulled out of the world's only binding climate change treaty, the Kyoto protocol, having increased its emissions of greenhouse gases by a third instead of reducing them by 6%. In public, the Canadian government claimed that tar sands are \"sustainable\" but in private it has admitted there is no \"credible scientific information\" to support this. Canada suffered a setback in January, when Barack Obama rejected a proposal for a controversial pipeline called Keystone XL to import bring tar sands oil from Alberta, though Republicans in congress are working to reinstate the pipeline.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Environment", "Oil", "Oil", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Canada", "Americas", "World news", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Canada threatens trade war with EU over tar sands"},{"date": "2012-02-08T17:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": " Foreground: cackling goose, Branta hutchinsii (synonym, Branta canadensis hutchinsii; protonym, Anser Hutchinsii), Richardson, 1832, also known as the Baffin Canada goose, Hutchins's goose, Richardson Canada goose, lesser Canada goose or as the tundra goose. Background: Canada goose, Branta canadensis (protonym, Anas canadensis) Linnaeus, 1758, also known as the Atlantic Canada goose, eastern Canada goose, or as the greater Canada goose, photographed at Lake Washington, Seattle, Washington (USA). Image: Doug Schurman, 22 January 2012 (with permission) [velociraptorize].Canon 7D with the Canon 400mm f5.6 lens  Question: These common North American mystery birds are strikingly different in size despite having the same colours and patterns. Why? Are these parent birds with one of their chicks? Are they different subspecies or are they two different species? Can you identify the taxonomic family and species for these birds?Response: These similar-looking birds are actually adults of two different species, according to DNA work. The species are the cackling goose, Branta hutchinsii (foreground) and a pair of Canada geese, Branta canadensis (background). Individuals at the opposite size extremes for the two species (as in this image) are easy to identify, however, there is considerable size overlap for several subspecies, which then is interesting for those who love to spend hours studying flocks consisting of hundreds or thousands of individual birds. The cackling/Canada goose is an iconic species that is native to arctic and temperate regions of North America. They have a black head and neck, white patches on the face, and a brownish-gray body. They are herbivorous and monogamous, and the sexes look the same, although males may be slightly larger. Cackling geese breed farther north and west in the Canadian tundra than does the Canada goose, which of course, means that gene flow between these populations is severely minimized. In 2004, the cackling goose was elevated to a full species comprising four extant and one extinct subspecies, some of which overlap in size with their sister species, the Canada goose. This of course, means the largest subspecies of cackling goose, B. h. taverneri and some individuals of the highly size-variable subspecies, B. h. hutchinsii, may in fact be larger than the smallest subspecies of Canada goose, B. c. parvipes. Unless one is looking at a small cackling goose or a large Canada goose, identifying which species and subspecies that one is looking at can be very challenging (and may in fact be impossible) for some locations where many subspecies occur. That said, conscientious birders will carefully note features that may be useful for identifying subspecies since this information can help scientists better understand the habits of these populations. Important features to note include the tone (paleness or darkness) of the plumage (especially the breast and underparts), bill size, neck length, presence or absence of a \"collar\" at the base of the neck and the presence or absence of a dark chinstrap. Here is a useful online table comparing common cackling/Canada goose subspecies that can be seen in the Pacific Northwet (this was designed to test goose hunters before they get their hunting license) and this linked PDF is a helpful table of characters that can be used to distinguish the two species and to identify their currently recognised subspecies. Distinguishing between two species and a dozen or so subspecies seems like a lot, doesn't it? But at least a few authorities consider the \"white cheeked goose\" species complex to actually consist of six species with more than 200 subspecies! Unfortunately, I have been unable to get copies of those papers, so I cannot tell you more than to scare you with that rumour. Clearly, the Canada/cackling goose species complex is, well, complex, and likely will be the subject of more DNA work (and controversy) in the near future. You are invited to review all of the daily mystery birds by going to their dedicated graphic index page. If you have bird images, video or mp3 files that you'd like to share with a large and (mostly) appreciative international audience here at The Guardian, feel free to contact me to learn more. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. twitter: @GrrlScientist facebook: grrlscientistevil google+: grrlscientistemail: grrlscientist@gmail.com", "tags": ["Science"], "title": "Mystery bird: Canada goose, Branta canadensis & cackling goose, B. hutchinsii | @GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2012-01-17T09:15:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's government has agreed to lift election-night blackouts on election results. In future, it will allow federal election results to be released as they become available instead of making Canadians wait for the last polls to close on the west coast.It bowed to the inevitable after tweeters defied the ban during elections last May, relaying results from the east before the final votes were cast in the western province of British Columbia.The repeal of the 70-year-old section of the Canada Elections Act was announced on Twitter - where else? - by government minister Tim Uppal.It was time, he said, to bring Canadian elections into the 21st century by getting rid of an outdated and unenforceable law.Sources: Globe & Mail/National Post/CBC", "tags": ["Media", "Canada", "Twitter", "Press freedom"], "title": "Canada gives in to tweeters by lifting election reporting ban"},{"date": "2012-03-11T20:44:48Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Britain has slipped behind Brazil in the global economic league table. The Bank of England has now kept the official cost of borrowing at 0.5% for three years and is part way through a third dose of electronic money creation. Living standards are on course to fall for a third year in a row, and the Institute for Fiscal Studies says that poor households and families with children will bear the brunt of government austerity over the coming year. Pressure is mounting on George Osborne to scrap the 50% income tax band, while Vince Cable expresses frustration about the government's lack of a \"compelling vision\" \u2013 an accurate assessment, if a cheeky one given that the business secretary is part of the team responsible for this mess.In short, the last seven days offered little reason to be optimistic about the UK economic recovery. Only Nissan bucked the gloom by announcing it will build a new small car at its plant in Sunderland, welcome news for a manufacturing sector where output, despite a 25% depreciation of sterling, is flat-lining.The Economist recently published its \"Proust index'', a measure of how much time had been lost by the recession. In Britain the clock has been turned back to 2004, and the hands are moving forward at a painfully slow pace. Despite a monetary and fiscal boost unprecedented in peacetime, there is no recovery to speak of. The recovery here has been weaker than in the US, Germany, France and Canada, and was slower than in Japan until the tsunami of a year ago.Explanations trotted out for this woeful performance include the likelihood that the official figures are wrong, that the UK has been hit harder than other leading industrialised countries due to the importance to the economy of the City, and that cuts to public spending have derailed the recovery. As Capital Economics has noted, however, official data is as likely to be revised down as up, Britain's financial services sector is no bigger as a share of the economy than that in the US, and most public spending cuts are still to come. None of the standard explanations, therefore, is convincing.Even so, there is a belief that recovery will come eventually. The Bank of England assumes that if it keeps bank rate low enough for long enough while continuing to print money, demand will pick up and the economy will return to its trend rate of growth. George Osborne is working on the basis that reducing government borrowing, cutting business taxes and red tape, and liberalising planning laws will create a stronger and bigger private sector to fill the gap left by the paring back of the public sector.The confidence of the Bank and the Treasury may well be justified, although on the basis of what has happened to the economy not just recently but over many decades it looks ill-advised.Here's a potted history of the century that has elapsed since Britain was still \u2013 just about \u2013 the world's superpower. Initially, there was over-reliance on the old staple industries of the first Industrial Revolution and the first of many macro-economic blunders with the decision to go back on the gold standard at the pre-first world war parity. Britain was slow to develop the newer industries such as electronics and chemicals, but was starting to do so in the 1930s when the second world war broke out.After 1945, a glorious opportunity to clean up while Germany, France, Italy and Japan were on their knees was squandered. Imperial delusions, military over-stretch, complacency, amateurism, weak management, and poor industrial relations all contributed to under-performance relative to rival western nations.Various remedies were tried, none of which worked for long. Britain has, for decades, been a nation that has lived beyond its means, as shown by the relentless deterioration in the balance of trade and the tendency to have a higher inflation rate than countries where consumption and production have been better balanced. The oilfields of the North Sea, now running dry, cushioned the country from this reality.Since the Bank of England abandoned direct controls on credit in the early 1970s, the economy has been prone to periodic debt binges, which have generated asset-price bubbles and, for a time, artificially boosted growth rates.Deregulation of the City in the 1980s meant even bigger debt bubbles, and entwined borrowers and lenders in a death embrace. Meanwhile, the productive side of the economy shrivelled in the four gruesome recessions of the mid-1970s, the early 1980s, the early 1990s and the one that began in 2008 and has yet to end.You don't need to be a genius to work out what happens next. After a while, the credit machine will crank its way back into life. The availability of cheap money will eventually generate a recovery based on consumer debt and rising house prices. Imports will rise, flows of hot money into the UK will drive up the pound and make exports less competitive. The whole, dreary cycle will repeat itself.Osborne and Sir Mervyn King are deluding themselves if they think that a third, a fourth or even a fifth bout of quantitative easing will solve the underlying problems of the UK economy. As things stand, the choice appears to be between permanent slow growth or short booms followed by protracted hangovers.Either way, without the financial balm of North Sea oil revenues, it will become harder and harder to maintain decent levels of public services and welfare provision.Debate about the economy in the UK tends to be absurdly short-termist. At the moment, the focus is on whether the government's deficit-reduction plan is too rapid and whether the 50% tax rate will generate any extra revenue. These are important issues, to be sure, and there is some interesting work being done in both areas. A paper by Tatiana Kirsanova and Simon Wren-Lewis in the latest Economic Journal, for example, argues that the optimal pace of debt reduction needs to be slow to avoid adverse fiscal feedbacks on the economy. Richard Murphy produced a report for the TUC last week in which he used HMRC data to show that the 50% tax rate should raise \u00a36bn in 2011-12.Ultimately, though, the challenge for the UK is to find a way of weaning itself off debt. In this respect, Cable's suggestion last week that RBS should be used as a new British investment bank, with a clean balance sheet and a mandate to lend to sound businesses is the first decent idea to emerge from Whitehall in a very long time. This is precisely what needs to happen to rebuild the UK's productive base and to ensure a foothold in the growth industries of the future. It has taken far too long for the penny to drop, but better late than never.", "tags": ["Economics", "Business", "Economic growth (GDP)", "Economic policy", "Politics", "Recession", "Global recession", "Global economy", "Credit crunch", "Market turmoil", "Financial crisis"], "title": "UK recovery has been weaker than in US, Germany, France and Canada"},{"date": "2012-03-20T14:05:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hungarians head to CanadaThe writer Akos Kertesz, 80, has just left his home in Hungary to seek asylum in Canada. In 2011, Ottawa registered almost twice as many applications from Hungarian nationals compared with the previous year, with 4,450 cases, up from 2,350 in 2010, according to Citizenship and Immigration Canada figures.The CIC does not record ethnic data on applicants, but this trend is thought mainly to concern Roma. Immigration minister Jason Kenney wants to tighten up existing legislation. He has also highlighted the paradox that Canada should be seeing more refugees from democratic Europe than from Asia or Africa. As a member of the European Union Hungary counts as a safe country and its nationals do not need a visa to visit Canada. Ottawa is, however about to change this policyvictimised by far-right groups a Roma militant, who has also taken refuge in Canada.A Liberal member of the European Parliament from 2004 to 2009 Ms Mohacsi alerted the media and authorities about the systematic attacks on Hungarian Roma in 2008-9, which claimed six lives and injured 55 others. The trial of four suspects opened almost a year ago in Budapest, but has dragged on, largely ignored by the general public. Mohacsi, jobless and deprived of funding for her human rights organisation, had no option but to leaveThis article originally appeared in Le Monde", "tags": ["Canada", "Hungary", "Roma", " Gypsies and Travellers", "Race issues"], "title": "Twice as many Hungarian asylum seekers in Canada in 2011"},{"date": "2012-03-09T23:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The UK jobs market is an unwelcoming prospect for students preparing to graduate this summer, which is one reason why many are planning to spend the coming year travelling and working in Canada. The Canadian High Commission has just released 5,350 places for this year's International Experience Canada (IEC) working holiday initiative and it has already received an unprecedented number of applications.The chief attraction is that, unlike in Britain, there are plenty of jobs available in Canada for those prepared to be flexible. \"There is a big call for skilled labour in hospitality and construction in the western provinces, Alberta and British Colombia and in Toronto and the ski resorts,\" says Gordon Campbell, Canada's High commissioner to the UK. \"We are one of the economies in the western world that is currently very strong.\"Fiona Brown spent a year in Toronto after graduating with an English and History degree from Edinburgh and says that the experience determined her career path.She says: \"I was unsure what career I wanted so decided to take a year out and hopefully get a sense of direction.\"After a few weeks of temping with an agency she found a permanent \u00a37-an-hour job in a bookshop and volunteered with a charity that supports isolated older people.\"I was matched with a woman who has cerebral palsy and enjoyed the regular visits so much that I applied to do an MA in social work at Warwick University,\" Brown adds.She organised her trip through the overseas work specialist BUNAC which, for a \u00a3254 fee, helps applicants obtain visas and assists with flights, accommodation, job hunting and general support throughout their year there. \"We have two resource centres in Toronto and Vancouver which help people search for jobs and we issue a handbook beforehand and an orientation course on arrival which give advice on living and working in Canada,\" says marketing manager Holly Brooks.\"People can choose to fly out with a group of other people on the Work Canada programme so they can get to know each other, they can be accommodated together in the hostels we use and we organise social events to help them make friends once they're there.\"Those hoping to launch themselves as high fliers in the Canadian financial sector may be disappointed. The IEC visas are for a year only and geared towards more casual work combined with travel. \"Jobs in retail are the easiest to get, although there is demand for more high skilled people,\" says Brooks. \"So long as you're flexible about what kind of work you'll accept, it's unlikely that you won't find a job within the first three weeks.\"This year's increased demand means that visa applications to the Canadian High Commission may take longer than the usual eight weeks to process.When Fiona Brown completes her MA this summer she intends to apply for a work visa and return to Canada for good.She says: \"I love the whole lifestyle there. Everyone is so friendly and they're fascinated by the British accent which made me stand out in the group interview for the bookshop job.\"I went out there because I thought it would be an adventure, but that year gave me a sense of my future.\"", "tags": ["Graduate careers", "Job hunting", "Work & careers", "Money", "Canada", "World news"], "title": "Can't find a graduate job? Look to Canada"},{"date": "2012-03-01T08:35:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "If you are fascinated by the benthos, by marine biodiversity or by the latest applications of modern technology, then you will enjoy this lovely video by the Ocean Networks Canada Observatory. This video captures scenes from their summer and autumn 2011 installation cruises throughout the northeastern Pacific Ocean, just off the coast of southwestern Canada and northwestern United States. In this video, you'll see a variety of beautiful and mysterious deep-sea and benthic creatures, such as gently pulsating jellies and angelic gliding rays, elegant brittle stars and delicate sea fans, and forests of tube worms, affixed to giant black smokers on the sea floor, thriving in sulfur-rich waters with temperatures exceeding a hundred degrees celsius:  Visit Ocean Networks Canada's Vimeo channel [video link]. The Ocean Networks Canada Observatory uses both VENUS and NEPTUNE Canada cabled networks to support research into marine environments ranging from the coast to the deep ocean. It allows for real-time interactive experiments designed to increase our understanding of ocean health, ecosystems, resources, natural hazards, and marine conservation. The Observatory is a national facility led by the University of Victoria on behalf of a pan-Canadian consortium of universities and partners. The Ocean Networks Canada Observatory is on facebook and twitter @ONCCEE The University of Victoria is on facebook and twitter @UVicNews.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. twitter: @GrrlScientist facebook: grrlscientist evil google+: grrlscientist email: grrlscientist@gmail.com", "tags": ["Zoology", "Science", "Marine life", "Biodiversity", "Environment"], "title": "Cruise the NE Pacific with the Ocean Networks Canada Observatory [video] | GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2012-02-20T10:45:42Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has threatened a trade war with European Union over the bloc's plan to label oil from Alberta's vast tar sands as highly polluting, the Guardian can reveal, before a key vote in Brussels on 23 February.\"Canada will not hesitate to defend its interests, including at the World Trade Organisation,\" state letters sent to European commissioners by Canada's ambassador to the EU and its oil minister, released under freedom of information laws.The move is a significant escalation of the row over the EU's plans, which Canada fears would set a global precedent and derail its ability to exploit its tar sands, which are the biggest fossil fuel reserve in the world after Saudi Arabia. Environmental groups argue that exploitation of the tar sands, also called oil sands, is catastrophic for the global climate, as well as causing serious air and water pollution in Alberta.Darek Urbaniak, at Friends of the Earth Europe, which obtained the new documents, said: \"These letters are further evidence of Canadian government and industry lobbying, which continuously undermines efforts to combat climate change. We find it unacceptable that the Canadian government now openly uses direct threats at the highest political levels to derail crucial EU climate legislation.\"The unveiling of Canada's threats is the latest in a series of recent embarrassing revelations. On 12 February, the occurrence of a secret strategy \"retreat\" in London in 2011 was discovered. High-level officials discussed the \"critical\" issue of winning the tar sands argument in the EU, to \"mitigate the impact on the Canadian brand\" and to protect the \"huge investments from the likes of Shell, BP, Total and Statoil\". Representatives of Shell, Total and Statoil attended the meeting alongside the UK's state-owned Royal Bank of Scotland and the Canadian Association of Petroleum Producers.In December, the Guardian revealed the secret high-level help given to the Canada by the UK government, which included David Cameron discussing the issue with his counterpart Stephen Harper during a visit to Canada, and stating privately that the UK wanted \"to work with Canada on finding a way forward\". Canada's minister for natural resources, Joe Oliver, stated: \"[The British] have been very, very helpful.\"The UK proposed an alternative \"banded\" approach to ascribing carbon emissions to different fuel types, which does not single out tar sands. But environmentalists dismiss it as a delaying tactic and the Guardian understands that the UK has failed to present its proposal formally or provide supporting evidence.In the newly released documents, Canada's ambassador to the EU, David Plunkett, wrote in December to Connie Hedegaard, European commissioner for climate action, about the EU plans under the fuel quality directive (FQD). \"If the final measures single out oil sands crude in a discriminatory, arbitrary or unscientific way, or are otherwise inconsistent with the EU's international trade obligations, I want to state that Canada will explore every avenue at its disposal to defend its interests, including at the World Trade Organisation.\" In October, Oliver wrote to the European commissioner for energy, G\u00fcnther Oettinger and Baroness Catherine Ashton, vice-president of the commission, stating: \"If unjustified, discriminatory measures to implement the fuel quality directive are put in place, Canada will not hesitate to defend its interests.\"A Canadian government spokeswoman told the Guardian: \"We oppose an FQD that discriminates against oil sands crude without strong scientific basis. The oil sands are a proven strategic resource for Canada; we will continue to promote Canada's oil sands as they are key to Canada's economic prosperity and energy security.\"The European Commission disputes the charge that its plans are not based on science. Hedegaard told the Guardian: \"The Commission identified the most carbon-intensive sources in its science-based proposal. This way high-emission fossil fuels will be labelled and given the proper value. It is only reasonable to give high values to more polluting products than to less polluting products. I of course hope the member states will follow the Commission [and vote for] this environmentally sound initiative.\"Colin Baines, toxic fuels campaign manager at the Co-operative, said: \"There is a wealth of independent science stating that tar sands fuels emit significantly more carbon than conventional oil, no matter how many briefings Canada gives claiming otherwise.\" The EU proposal is to label tar sands oil as causing 22% more greenhouse gas emissions than conventional oil on average. The increase results from the energy needed to blast the bitumen from the bedrock and refine it.Baines added: \"The Canadian government's aggressive lobbying and attempted intimidation of the EU is making it look increasingly desperate. But its threat of a WTO challenge faces one massive problem: tar sands oil is not a 'like product' with crude oil so no unlawful discrimination exists under WTO. The EU must adhere to the science and penalise the higher emissions.\"Many European oil companies have major interests in the Canadian tar sands. In January, the Guardian revealed a secret compromise plan that would weaken the impact on tar sands oil, this time from the Netherlands, home of Shell. BP, headquartered in the UK, had already in their own words \"bent the ear\" of the UK's energy minister. Total in France and ENI in Italy also have tar sands interests and those nations are believed to be opposed to the EU plan.If the FQD proposal fails to win the required majority in the vote on Thursday it faces an arduous fight for survival through the European council and parliament. The UK's votes are seen as crucial, but a government spokeswoman declined to say which way the UK would vote. The issue has become a difficult one for the responsible minister, Liberal Democrat Norman Baker, who frequently supports environmental policies. On 10 February, he said: \"For climate change reasons, I do not think it would be helpful to extend our reliance on fossil fuels any more than necessary,\" before a meeting about proposals to extract shale gas using fracking near his constituency in Lewes.His party colleague, Chris Davies MEP, who is the Lib Dem environment spokesman in the European parliament, said: \"It is extraordinarily naive for ministers and officials to take the special pleading by Canada as though it were gospel truth, rather than what it is \u2013 an attempt to protect narrow financial interests.\" In 2009, Simon Hughes MP, and now deputy leader of the Lib Dems said: \"World leaders must work towards a treaty that will outlaw tar sands extraction, in the same way they came together to ban land mines, blood diamonds and cluster bombs.\"In December, Canada unilaterally pulled out of the world's only binding climate change treaty, the Kyoto protocol, having increased its emissions of greenhouse gases by a third instead of reducing them by 6%. In public, the Canadian government claimed that tar sands are \"sustainable\" but in private it has admitted there is no \"credible scientific information\" to support this. Canada suffered a setback in January, when Barack Obama rejected a proposal for a controversial pipeline called Keystone XL to import bring tar sands oil from Alberta, though Republicans in congress are working to reinstate the pipeline.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Environment", "Oil", "Oil", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil and gas companies", "Energy industry", "Canada", "Americas", "World news", "European Union", "Europe"], "title": "Canada threatens trade war with EU over tar sands"},{"date": "2012-02-08T17:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": " Foreground: cackling goose, Branta hutchinsii (synonym, Branta canadensis hutchinsii; protonym, Anser Hutchinsii), Richardson, 1832, also known as the Baffin Canada goose, Hutchins's goose, Richardson Canada goose, lesser Canada goose or as the tundra goose. Background: Canada goose, Branta canadensis (protonym, Anas canadensis) Linnaeus, 1758, also known as the Atlantic Canada goose, eastern Canada goose, or as the greater Canada goose, photographed at Lake Washington, Seattle, Washington (USA). Image: Doug Schurman, 22 January 2012 (with permission) [velociraptorize].Canon 7D with the Canon 400mm f5.6 lens  Question: These common North American mystery birds are strikingly different in size despite having the same colours and patterns. Why? Are these parent birds with one of their chicks? Are they different subspecies or are they two different species? Can you identify the taxonomic family and species for these birds?Response: These similar-looking birds are actually adults of two different species, according to DNA work. The species are the cackling goose, Branta hutchinsii (foreground) and a pair of Canada geese, Branta canadensis (background). Individuals at the opposite size extremes for the two species (as in this image) are easy to identify, however, there is considerable size overlap for several subspecies, which then is interesting for those who love to spend hours studying flocks consisting of hundreds or thousands of individual birds. The cackling/Canada goose is an iconic species that is native to arctic and temperate regions of North America. They have a black head and neck, white patches on the face, and a brownish-gray body. They are herbivorous and monogamous, and the sexes look the same, although males may be slightly larger. Cackling geese breed farther north and west in the Canadian tundra than does the Canada goose, which of course, means that gene flow between these populations is severely minimized. In 2004, the cackling goose was elevated to a full species comprising four extant and one extinct subspecies, some of which overlap in size with their sister species, the Canada goose. This of course, means the largest subspecies of cackling goose, B. h. taverneri and some individuals of the highly size-variable subspecies, B. h. hutchinsii, may in fact be larger than the smallest subspecies of Canada goose, B. c. parvipes. Unless one is looking at a small cackling goose or a large Canada goose, identifying which species and subspecies that one is looking at can be very challenging (and may in fact be impossible) for some locations where many subspecies occur. That said, conscientious birders will carefully note features that may be useful for identifying subspecies since this information can help scientists better understand the habits of these populations. Important features to note include the tone (paleness or darkness) of the plumage (especially the breast and underparts), bill size, neck length, presence or absence of a \"collar\" at the base of the neck and the presence or absence of a dark chinstrap. Here is a useful online table comparing common cackling/Canada goose subspecies that can be seen in the Pacific Northwet (this was designed to test goose hunters before they get their hunting license) and this linked PDF is a helpful table of characters that can be used to distinguish the two species and to identify their currently recognised subspecies. Distinguishing between two species and a dozen or so subspecies seems like a lot, doesn't it? But at least a few authorities consider the \"white cheeked goose\" species complex to actually consist of six species with more than 200 subspecies! Unfortunately, I have been unable to get copies of those papers, so I cannot tell you more than to scare you with that rumour. Clearly, the Canada/cackling goose species complex is, well, complex, and likely will be the subject of more DNA work (and controversy) in the near future. You are invited to review all of the daily mystery birds by going to their dedicated graphic index page. If you have bird images, video or mp3 files that you'd like to share with a large and (mostly) appreciative international audience here at The Guardian, feel free to contact me to learn more. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. twitter: @GrrlScientist facebook: grrlscientistevil google+: grrlscientistemail: grrlscientist@gmail.com", "tags": ["Science"], "title": "Mystery bird: Canada goose, Branta canadensis & cackling goose, B. hutchinsii | @GrrlScientist"},{"date": "2012-01-17T09:15:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's government has agreed to lift election-night blackouts on election results. In future, it will allow federal election results to be released as they become available instead of making Canadians wait for the last polls to close on the west coast.It bowed to the inevitable after tweeters defied the ban during elections last May, relaying results from the east before the final votes were cast in the western province of British Columbia.The repeal of the 70-year-old section of the Canada Elections Act was announced on Twitter - where else? - by government minister Tim Uppal.It was time, he said, to bring Canadian elections into the 21st century by getting rid of an outdated and unenforceable law.Sources: Globe & Mail/National Post/CBC", "tags": ["Media", "Canada", "Twitter", "Press freedom"], "title": "Canada gives in to tweeters by lifting election reporting ban"},{"date": "2012-03-11T20:44:48Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Britain has slipped behind Brazil in the global economic league table. The Bank of England has now kept the official cost of borrowing at 0.5% for three years and is part way through a third dose of electronic money creation. Living standards are on course to fall for a third year in a row, and the Institute for Fiscal Studies says that poor households and families with children will bear the brunt of government austerity over the coming year. Pressure is mounting on George Osborne to scrap the 50% income tax band, while Vince Cable expresses frustration about the government's lack of a \"compelling vision\" \u2013 an accurate assessment, if a cheeky one given that the business secretary is part of the team responsible for this mess.In short, the last seven days offered little reason to be optimistic about the UK economic recovery. Only Nissan bucked the gloom by announcing it will build a new small car at its plant in Sunderland, welcome news for a manufacturing sector where output, despite a 25% depreciation of sterling, is flat-lining.The Economist recently published its \"Proust index'', a measure of how much time had been lost by the recession. In Britain the clock has been turned back to 2004, and the hands are moving forward at a painfully slow pace. Despite a monetary and fiscal boost unprecedented in peacetime, there is no recovery to speak of. The recovery here has been weaker than in the US, Germany, France and Canada, and was slower than in Japan until the tsunami of a year ago.Explanations trotted out for this woeful performance include the likelihood that the official figures are wrong, that the UK has been hit harder than other leading industrialised countries due to the importance to the economy of the City, and that cuts to public spending have derailed the recovery. As Capital Economics has noted, however, official data is as likely to be revised down as up, Britain's financial services sector is no bigger as a share of the economy than that in the US, and most public spending cuts are still to come. None of the standard explanations, therefore, is convincing.Even so, there is a belief that recovery will come eventually. The Bank of England assumes that if it keeps bank rate low enough for long enough while continuing to print money, demand will pick up and the economy will return to its trend rate of growth. George Osborne is working on the basis that reducing government borrowing, cutting business taxes and red tape, and liberalising planning laws will create a stronger and bigger private sector to fill the gap left by the paring back of the public sector.The confidence of the Bank and the Treasury may well be justified, although on the basis of what has happened to the economy not just recently but over many decades it looks ill-advised.Here's a potted history of the century that has elapsed since Britain was still \u2013 just about \u2013 the world's superpower. Initially, there was over-reliance on the old staple industries of the first Industrial Revolution and the first of many macro-economic blunders with the decision to go back on the gold standard at the pre-first world war parity. Britain was slow to develop the newer industries such as electronics and chemicals, but was starting to do so in the 1930s when the second world war broke out.After 1945, a glorious opportunity to clean up while Germany, France, Italy and Japan were on their knees was squandered. Imperial delusions, military over-stretch, complacency, amateurism, weak management, and poor industrial relations all contributed to under-performance relative to rival western nations.Various remedies were tried, none of which worked for long. Britain has, for decades, been a nation that has lived beyond its means, as shown by the relentless deterioration in the balance of trade and the tendency to have a higher inflation rate than countries where consumption and production have been better balanced. The oilfields of the North Sea, now running dry, cushioned the country from this reality.Since the Bank of England abandoned direct controls on credit in the early 1970s, the economy has been prone to periodic debt binges, which have generated asset-price bubbles and, for a time, artificially boosted growth rates.Deregulation of the City in the 1980s meant even bigger debt bubbles, and entwined borrowers and lenders in a death embrace. Meanwhile, the productive side of the economy shrivelled in the four gruesome recessions of the mid-1970s, the early 1980s, the early 1990s and the one that began in 2008 and has yet to end.You don't need to be a genius to work out what happens next. After a while, the credit machine will crank its way back into life. The availability of cheap money will eventually generate a recovery based on consumer debt and rising house prices. Imports will rise, flows of hot money into the UK will drive up the pound and make exports less competitive. The whole, dreary cycle will repeat itself.Osborne and Sir Mervyn King are deluding themselves if they think that a third, a fourth or even a fifth bout of quantitative easing will solve the underlying problems of the UK economy. As things stand, the choice appears to be between permanent slow growth or short booms followed by protracted hangovers.Either way, without the financial balm of North Sea oil revenues, it will become harder and harder to maintain decent levels of public services and welfare provision.Debate about the economy in the UK tends to be absurdly short-termist. At the moment, the focus is on whether the government's deficit-reduction plan is too rapid and whether the 50% tax rate will generate any extra revenue. These are important issues, to be sure, and there is some interesting work being done in both areas. A paper by Tatiana Kirsanova and Simon Wren-Lewis in the latest Economic Journal, for example, argues that the optimal pace of debt reduction needs to be slow to avoid adverse fiscal feedbacks on the economy. Richard Murphy produced a report for the TUC last week in which he used HMRC data to show that the 50% tax rate should raise \u00a36bn in 2011-12.Ultimately, though, the challenge for the UK is to find a way of weaning itself off debt. In this respect, Cable's suggestion last week that RBS should be used as a new British investment bank, with a clean balance sheet and a mandate to lend to sound businesses is the first decent idea to emerge from Whitehall in a very long time. This is precisely what needs to happen to rebuild the UK's productive base and to ensure a foothold in the growth industries of the future. It has taken far too long for the penny to drop, but better late than never.", "tags": ["Economics", "Business", "Economic growth (GDP)", "Economic policy", "Politics", "Recession", "Global recession", "Global economy", "Credit crunch", "Market turmoil", "Financial crisis"], "title": "UK recovery has been weaker than in US, Germany, France and Canada"},{"date": "2012-03-26T07:30:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A quick burst of 10 links for you to chew over, as picked by the Technology teamI'm incredibly conflicted, because as much as I love the do-anything computer ... I'm not sure that many people in the world truly need a general purpose computer that can do anything and install any kind of software. Simply meeting the core needs of browsing the web and email and maybe a few other basic things covers a lot of people. I believe the kitchen-sink-itis baked into the general purpose computing foundations of PCs, Macs, and Unix make them fundamentally incompatible with our brave new Post PC world. Updates. Toolbars. Service Packs. Settings. Anti-virus. Filesystems. Control panels. All the stuff you hate when your Mom calls you for tech support? It's deeply embedded into of the culture and design of every single general purpose computer. Doing potentially \"anything\" comes at a steep cost in complexity. Very, very small PCs - the kind you could fit in your pocket - are starting to have the same amount of computing grunt as a high end desktop PC of, say, 5 years ago. And that was plenty, even back then, for a relatively inefficient general purpose operating system.Tim Gulpan, who been reporting on Foxconn and China for more than a decade: In our reporting, as \"Inside Foxconn\" detailed, we found a group of workers who have complaints, but complaints not starkly different from those of workers in any other company. The biggest gripe, which surprised us somewhat, is that they don't get enough overtime. They wanted to work more, to get more money. Less than a year later, I went back again with another colleague. We went inside the same Longhua campus in Shenzhen, which required Foxconn's approval, and chatted with workers. We stood outside the gates (possibly the same gates where Daisey claimed he found underage workers), with Foxconn unaware we were there. We wandered farther into the local neighborhood shopping strip, among the bubble-tea stands and food vendors, where the young workers went on dates and caught up with friends. These weren't Daisey-esque scenes of woe and horror. Rather than forced labor and sweatshop conditions, workers told of homesickness and the desire to earn more money-two impulses that seemed to drive each other for workers planning to go home once they'd earned enough.Plagiarizing someone's idea because you don't like their person is spiteful and spite has been the justifying tone behind a lot of Dustin [Curtis]'s critics. Yes Dustin came off as an arrogant ass and I think he will learn from this experience. But does that really justify ripping of the dude's idea and hard work and then sharing it with the world? Absolutely not. If the community accepts copying and re-distributing ideas because someone doesn't like the person who originally built it, that would be chaos. Anyone could use that as an excuse to reproduce anyone else's work. The context: Curtis created his own blogging platform, which he showed in a blogpost; someone else created their own copy, arguing that Curtis should have open-sourced it. But you can use this same argument for other intellectual property. Note Granados's extra comment at the end of his post.First, we know that the phones started arriving at AT&T stores over the last two days and that employee training on the Windows Phone OS (and this specific hardware) will take place on March 26th, April 6th and 7th at those outlets. Next is the big news: AT&T has designated the Nokia Lumia 900 for 'Company Use' meaning all Front Seller employees are eligible to receive the phone at no cost. The trade off is though is that employees have to turn in their current 'Company Use' phones, namely the iPhone and certain Android devices. Reportedly paying $25m for that. Coming out of Nokia's, or Microsoft's budget? We'd hope Stephen Elop would have got Microsoft to cough up on this. Key question: how many of the staff will take it up?Following a Storify about sexism based on a Twitter row, Hacker News (you know, where all the bro-grammers gather) discusses whether there is or is not sexism in programming, and if so whether it's good/bad/indifferent.Canada's love affair with the BlackBerry is waning. Research In Motion has been ousted from the top spot for smartphone shipments in its home market for the first time, trailing Apple Inc.'s iPhone. RIM, based in Waterloo, Ontario, shipped 2.08m BlackBerrys last year in Canada, compared with 2.85m units for Apple, data compiled by IDC and Bloomberg show. In 2010, the BlackBerry topped the iPhone by half a million, and in 2008, the year after the iPhone's debut, RIM outsold Apple by almost five to one. Canada generates about 7% of RIM's revenues, but fell about 23% from a year earlier. RIM's next quarterly results will be announced on 29 March. (Data about other platforms isn't given in the story.)Anyone with Web access can edit Wikipedia. However, only a small percentage of women take advantage of that privilege. A look at the encyclopedia's demographics shows that 91% of its active editors are men, meaning just nine percent are women. In commemoration of Women's History Month, a group of Wikipedia editors - both male and female - had a frank, round-table discussion about how to make steps toward closing that gender gap. The chat was organised and written up by Sarah Stierch, a Wikimedia Community Fellow who aims to bring more women and women's content to Wikipedia.Dyson, who has been investing in startups for ages, talks about both whether there are women angel investors (there are, you just don't hear about them) and whether the buyouts you hear about are overpriced.From the description: \"Video giving details of how to detect the passcode and perform a dump and decryption of the iPhone together with new support levels for Android devices.\" You hope that only the police have this.The supply of smartphones running on Android 4.0 will increase substantially starting the second quarter of 2012, with mid-range to high-end models coming from brand vendors including HTC, Samsung Electronics, and Sony Mobile Communications, while China-based handset makers may launch models based on Qualcomm's 7227a solution and MediaTek's MT6565 platform for the entry-level segment, according to industry sources. Smartphones running on Android 4.0 account for only 2-3% of all Android phones in use currently, the sources indicated.You can follow Guardian Technology's linkbucket on Pinboard. To suggest a link, either add it below or tag it with @gdntech on the free Delicious service.", "tags": ["Technology"], "title": "Boot up: the real Foxconn, Nokia's AT&T incentive, data dumps from locked iPhones and more"},{"date": "2012-06-19T13:00:19Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government's plan to raise language fluency requirements for prospective skilled immigrants has some experts concerned that it may tilt migration patterns toward the English-speaking world.Canada's immigration minister Jason Kenney said earlier this year that some immigration applicants will soon have to demonstrate high levels of English or French fluency to gain entry to Canada. The proposed new requirements would apply to the largest class of immigrants, the federal skilled worker category, which accounts for nearly 100,000 of the roughly 250,000 immigrants who come to Canada every year.The decision is aimed at improving economic outcomes for immigrants in the country, which have been steadily declining over the last 30 years. Today a new immigrant earns only about 60% of the wages of a similarly educated Canadian-born citizen, compared with nearly 90% three decades ago. Meanwhile a flood of research has shown that language ability is one of the best predictors of rapid integration and economic success.But Naomi Alboim, a public policy professor at Ontario's Queen's University and a former provincial deputy minister of citizenship, expects the policy will also have other consequences. The most striking will be a significant shift in source countries, she said. Alboim anticipates a decline in the number of migrants from China, for example, and a rise in the number from English-speaking countries.Such a shift would make Canada's immigrant intake more similar to Australia's. The Australian government raised immigrant language requirements over the last decade and its immigrants have fared better economically than those in Canada. But Australia also receives proportionally larger numbers from English-speaking countries such as the UK, Ireland and New Zealand, who tend to integrate more quickly.\"A focus on language does make eminent sense. But I think we have to be careful about how high we are setting the bar and whether that is going to exclude a whole group of people who can contribute to a very significant degree with a little bit of assistance,\" Alboim said.\"We don't need to restrict our entire federal skilled worker intake to only those who have a high level of language, because that can develop over time.\"Canada adopted a points-based immigration admission system in the 1960s to guard against any discrimination on the basis of race, religion or national origin, which had been shameful features of immigration policy in the past. Although it has awarded a certain number of points for language ability, it will now require that immigrants wishing to work in the professions demonstrate \"fluency\" on standardised tests. A slightly lower level would be required for those in skilled trades.While anyone can, in theory, learn a language, English or French fluency is more common in some parts of the world and Canada may be taking a step, intentional or not, towards targeting source countries.Debbie Douglas, executive director of the Ontario Council of Agencies Serving Immigrants, fears that the new policy will screen out people from the global south. \"We can't discriminate against folks who don't sound like us. That might mean more propping up of language teaching [for new immigrants] but that's a very small price to pay for helping people contribute to building our country,\" Douglas said.\"We have committed to a multicultural ethos. We've agreed that Canada is a diverse country, that it's one of our strengths, that it makes us stronger socially and economically.\"Kenney has said it is hard to predict what impact the new language requirements might have on source countries, as they tend to ebb and flow for a variety of reasons, including global economic conditions as well as selection criteria. His goal is to create a more flexible language grid that will contribute to improving the economic fortunes of those who are\u00a0selected.At the moment the federal government does not do much recruiting of immigrants, since it already receives many more applications than it can accept in a year. But provinces, employers and post-secondary institutions can and do target newcomers independently. For regions that struggle to attract immigrants, targeting has become an important way of encouraging population growth.The premier of Saskatchewan recently flew to Ireland to encourage unemployed Irish young people to embark for the booming prairies. And neighbouring Manitoba takes aim at groups it believes will settle comfortably in the notoriously cold province. Recently Manitoba has turned to Ukraine, a major source country a hundred years ago, to find people to settle rural areas.While an emphasis on language might produce better economic outcomes for immigrants in the short term, it could also have other effects. Canada may struggle to find enough people with sufficient levels of fluency to maintain its very high immigration levels, for example. A sudden shift in the attainability of immigration may have an impact on Canada's ties to a country such as China and studies have shown that trade ties increase through immigration.Howard Ramos, a sociologist at Dalhousie University in Nova Scotia, says statistics show the overwhelming majority of immigrants are able to speak one of Canada's official languages.\"The history of immigration has shown a high degree of language integration over time. So I'm not entirely sure the concern being raised is necessarily warranted,\" Ramos said.\"The points system was introduced to correct the injustices of focusing on culture and language too heavily. It was a society and a time that was much more ethnocentric. I don't think it's a time we should try and return to.\"", "tags": ["Migration and development", "Tefl", "Canada"], "title": "Canada to raise language bar"},{"date": "2012-06-19T13:00:19Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government's plan to raise language fluency requirements for prospective skilled immigrants has some experts concerned that it may tilt migration patterns toward the English-speaking world.Canada's immigration minister Jason Kenney said earlier this year that some immigration applicants will soon have to demonstrate high levels of English or French fluency to gain entry to Canada. The proposed new requirements would apply to the largest class of immigrants, the federal skilled worker category, which accounts for nearly 100,000 of the roughly 250,000 immigrants who come to Canada every year.The decision is aimed at improving economic outcomes for immigrants in the country, which have been steadily declining over the last 30 years. Today a new immigrant earns only about 60% of the wages of a similarly educated Canadian-born citizen, compared with nearly 90% three decades ago. Meanwhile a flood of research has shown that language ability is one of the best predictors of rapid integration and economic success.But Naomi Alboim, a public policy professor at Ontario's Queen's University and a former provincial deputy minister of citizenship, expects the policy will also have other consequences. The most striking will be a significant shift in source countries, she said. Alboim anticipates a decline in the number of migrants from China, for example, and a rise in the number from English-speaking countries.Such a shift would make Canada's immigrant intake more similar to Australia's. The Australian government raised immigrant language requirements over the last decade and its immigrants have fared better economically than those in Canada. But Australia also receives proportionally larger numbers from English-speaking countries such as the UK, Ireland and New Zealand, who tend to integrate more quickly.\"A focus on language does make eminent sense. But I think we have to be careful about how high we are setting the bar and whether that is going to exclude a whole group of people who can contribute to a very significant degree with a little bit of assistance,\" Alboim said.\"We don't need to restrict our entire federal skilled worker intake to only those who have a high level of language, because that can develop over time.\"Canada adopted a points-based immigration admission system in the 1960s to guard against any discrimination on the basis of race, religion or national origin, which had been shameful features of immigration policy in the past. Although it has awarded a certain number of points for language ability, it will now require that immigrants wishing to work in the professions demonstrate \"fluency\" on standardised tests. A slightly lower level would be required for those in skilled trades.While anyone can, in theory, learn a language, English or French fluency is more common in some parts of the world and Canada may be taking a step, intentional or not, towards targeting source countries.Debbie Douglas, executive director of the Ontario Council of Agencies Serving Immigrants, fears that the new policy will screen out people from the global south. \"We can't discriminate against folks who don't sound like us. That might mean more propping up of language teaching [for new immigrants] but that's a very small price to pay for helping people contribute to building our country,\" Douglas said.\"We have committed to a multicultural ethos. We've agreed that Canada is a diverse country, that it's one of our strengths, that it makes us stronger socially and economically.\"Kenney has said it is hard to predict what impact the new language requirements might have on source countries, as they tend to ebb and flow for a variety of reasons, including global economic conditions as well as selection criteria. His goal is to create a more flexible language grid that will contribute to improving the economic fortunes of those who are\u00a0selected.At the moment the federal government does not do much recruiting of immigrants, since it already receives many more applications than it can accept in a year. But provinces, employers and post-secondary institutions can and do target newcomers independently. For regions that struggle to attract immigrants, targeting has become an important way of encouraging population growth.The premier of Saskatchewan recently flew to Ireland to encourage unemployed Irish young people to embark for the booming prairies. And neighbouring Manitoba takes aim at groups it believes will settle comfortably in the notoriously cold province. Recently Manitoba has turned to Ukraine, a major source country a hundred years ago, to find people to settle rural areas.While an emphasis on language might produce better economic outcomes for immigrants in the short term, it could also have other effects. Canada may struggle to find enough people with sufficient levels of fluency to maintain its very high immigration levels, for example. A sudden shift in the attainability of immigration may have an impact on Canada's ties to a country such as China and studies have shown that trade ties increase through immigration.Howard Ramos, a sociologist at Dalhousie University in Nova Scotia, says statistics show the overwhelming majority of immigrants are able to speak one of Canada's official languages.\"The history of immigration has shown a high degree of language integration over time. So I'm not entirely sure the concern being raised is necessarily warranted,\" Ramos said.\"The points system was introduced to correct the injustices of focusing on culture and language too heavily. It was a society and a time that was much more ethnocentric. I don't think it's a time we should try and return to.\"", "tags": ["Migration and development", "Tefl", "Canada"], "title": "Canada to raise language bar"},{"date": "2012-05-17T17:23:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government is to mark the 25th anniversary of its green business advisers by closing the agency down.John Baird, Canada's foreign affairs minister and pointman for next month's Rio+20 Earth summit in Brazil, said this week that the National Roundtable for the Environment and Economy (NRTEE) would have its funding cut in 2013 because of the availability of information from thinktanks, the internet and universities.Baird told reporters that Canadian taxpayers should not have to pay for an organisation that has produced 10 reports promoting a carbon tax \u2013 \"something that the people of Canada have repeatedly rejected\".\"But that's not correct,\" the Roundtable's CEO, David McLaughlin, told the Guardian on Thursday, adding that it had never advocated a carbon tax but had looked at cap and trade for regulating Canada's greenhouse gas emissions in a 2009 report commissioned by the government. \"Which was government policy at the time,\" said McLaughlin.McLaughlin, a former chief of staff to federal finance minister Jim Flaherty, stressed there was always original analysis in its reports, making available information that would not otherwise be in the public domain. McLaughlin also pointed to the Roundtable's ability to combine research while convening people from industry as well as the environmental sector together.Only on Wednesday the NRTEE provided an environmental life cycle analysis commissioned by the federal environment minister, Peter Kent, and a climate change report is due out next month that will look at provincial emissions reduction plans.The C$5.2 million funding for the NRTEE will cease as of 31 March next year under a wide-ranging omnibus budget bill C-38 that is currently before Canada's House of Commons. The legislation seeks to speed up natural resources projects such as oil and gas pipelines, and repeal the Kyoto Protocol Implementation Act.", "tags": ["Climate change", "Canada", "Environment", "Americas", "World news", "Carbon tax", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "Canada axes green advisory body"},{"date": "2012-06-19T13:00:19Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government's plan to raise language fluency requirements for prospective skilled immigrants has some experts concerned that it may tilt migration patterns toward the English-speaking world.Canada's immigration minister Jason Kenney said earlier this year that some immigration applicants will soon have to demonstrate high levels of English or French fluency to gain entry to Canada. The proposed new requirements would apply to the largest class of immigrants, the federal skilled worker category, which accounts for nearly 100,000 of the roughly 250,000 immigrants who come to Canada every year.The decision is aimed at improving economic outcomes for immigrants in the country, which have been steadily declining over the last 30 years. Today a new immigrant earns only about 60% of the wages of a similarly educated Canadian-born citizen, compared with nearly 90% three decades ago. Meanwhile a flood of research has shown that language ability is one of the best predictors of rapid integration and economic success.But Naomi Alboim, a public policy professor at Ontario's Queen's University and a former provincial deputy minister of citizenship, expects the policy will also have other consequences. The most striking will be a significant shift in source countries, she said. Alboim anticipates a decline in the number of migrants from China, for example, and a rise in the number from English-speaking countries.Such a shift would make Canada's immigrant intake more similar to Australia's. The Australian government raised immigrant language requirements over the last decade and its immigrants have fared better economically than those in Canada. But Australia also receives proportionally larger numbers from English-speaking countries such as the UK, Ireland and New Zealand, who tend to integrate more quickly.\"A focus on language does make eminent sense. But I think we have to be careful about how high we are setting the bar and whether that is going to exclude a whole group of people who can contribute to a very significant degree with a little bit of assistance,\" Alboim said.\"We don't need to restrict our entire federal skilled worker intake to only those who have a high level of language, because that can develop over time.\"Canada adopted a points-based immigration admission system in the 1960s to guard against any discrimination on the basis of race, religion or national origin, which had been shameful features of immigration policy in the past. Although it has awarded a certain number of points for language ability, it will now require that immigrants wishing to work in the professions demonstrate \"fluency\" on standardised tests. A slightly lower level would be required for those in skilled trades.While anyone can, in theory, learn a language, English or French fluency is more common in some parts of the world and Canada may be taking a step, intentional or not, towards targeting source countries.Debbie Douglas, executive director of the Ontario Council of Agencies Serving Immigrants, fears that the new policy will screen out people from the global south. \"We can't discriminate against folks who don't sound like us. That might mean more propping up of language teaching [for new immigrants] but that's a very small price to pay for helping people contribute to building our country,\" Douglas said.\"We have committed to a multicultural ethos. We've agreed that Canada is a diverse country, that it's one of our strengths, that it makes us stronger socially and economically.\"Kenney has said it is hard to predict what impact the new language requirements might have on source countries, as they tend to ebb and flow for a variety of reasons, including global economic conditions as well as selection criteria. His goal is to create a more flexible language grid that will contribute to improving the economic fortunes of those who are\u00a0selected.At the moment the federal government does not do much recruiting of immigrants, since it already receives many more applications than it can accept in a year. But provinces, employers and post-secondary institutions can and do target newcomers independently. For regions that struggle to attract immigrants, targeting has become an important way of encouraging population growth.The premier of Saskatchewan recently flew to Ireland to encourage unemployed Irish young people to embark for the booming prairies. And neighbouring Manitoba takes aim at groups it believes will settle comfortably in the notoriously cold province. Recently Manitoba has turned to Ukraine, a major source country a hundred years ago, to find people to settle rural areas.While an emphasis on language might produce better economic outcomes for immigrants in the short term, it could also have other effects. Canada may struggle to find enough people with sufficient levels of fluency to maintain its very high immigration levels, for example. A sudden shift in the attainability of immigration may have an impact on Canada's ties to a country such as China and studies have shown that trade ties increase through immigration.Howard Ramos, a sociologist at Dalhousie University in Nova Scotia, says statistics show the overwhelming majority of immigrants are able to speak one of Canada's official languages.\"The history of immigration has shown a high degree of language integration over time. So I'm not entirely sure the concern being raised is necessarily warranted,\" Ramos said.\"The points system was introduced to correct the injustices of focusing on culture and language too heavily. It was a society and a time that was much more ethnocentric. I don't think it's a time we should try and return to.\"", "tags": ["Migration and development", "Tefl", "Canada"], "title": "Canada to raise language bar"},{"date": "2012-05-17T17:23:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government is to mark the 25th anniversary of its green business advisers by closing the agency down.John Baird, Canada's foreign affairs minister and pointman for next month's Rio+20 Earth summit in Brazil, said this week that the National Roundtable for the Environment and Economy (NRTEE) would have its funding cut in 2013 because of the availability of information from thinktanks, the internet and universities.Baird told reporters that Canadian taxpayers should not have to pay for an organisation that has produced 10 reports promoting a carbon tax \u2013 \"something that the people of Canada have repeatedly rejected\".\"But that's not correct,\" the Roundtable's CEO, David McLaughlin, told the Guardian on Thursday, adding that it had never advocated a carbon tax but had looked at cap and trade for regulating Canada's greenhouse gas emissions in a 2009 report commissioned by the government. \"Which was government policy at the time,\" said McLaughlin.McLaughlin, a former chief of staff to federal finance minister Jim Flaherty, stressed there was always original analysis in its reports, making available information that would not otherwise be in the public domain. McLaughlin also pointed to the Roundtable's ability to combine research while convening people from industry as well as the environmental sector together.Only on Wednesday the NRTEE provided an environmental life cycle analysis commissioned by the federal environment minister, Peter Kent, and a climate change report is due out next month that will look at provincial emissions reduction plans.The C$5.2 million funding for the NRTEE will cease as of 31 March next year under a wide-ranging omnibus budget bill C-38 that is currently before Canada's House of Commons. The legislation seeks to speed up natural resources projects such as oil and gas pipelines, and repeal the Kyoto Protocol Implementation Act.", "tags": ["Climate change", "Canada", "Environment", "Americas", "World news", "Carbon tax", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "Canada axes green advisory body"},{"date": "2012-06-29T16:45:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When I say Canada, you say \u2026 ? Sigh. We all know that Americans don't pay much attention to its 'hat', but when Emma from Degrassi got an STD, you know she was covered by national healthcare! So really, Twitter folk, you should have known better.Buzzfeed's Dave Stopera collected tweets of conservative reactions to the Obamacare ruling with the unlikely threat of a move to Canada \u2013 a country with a single-payer, national healthcare system. How about that? Twitter took the opportunity to flex its wit and we've collected the best reactions. ", "tags": ["Twitter", "US healthcare"], "title": "The Obamacare moving-to-Canada threats: how stupid are they?"},{"date": "2012-06-19T13:00:19Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government's plan to raise language fluency requirements for prospective skilled immigrants has some experts concerned that it may tilt migration patterns toward the English-speaking world.Canada's immigration minister Jason Kenney said earlier this year that some immigration applicants will soon have to demonstrate high levels of English or French fluency to gain entry to Canada. The proposed new requirements would apply to the largest class of immigrants, the federal skilled worker category, which accounts for nearly 100,000 of the roughly 250,000 immigrants who come to Canada every year.The decision is aimed at improving economic outcomes for immigrants in the country, which have been steadily declining over the last 30 years. Today a new immigrant earns only about 60% of the wages of a similarly educated Canadian-born citizen, compared with nearly 90% three decades ago. Meanwhile a flood of research has shown that language ability is one of the best predictors of rapid integration and economic success.But Naomi Alboim, a public policy professor at Ontario's Queen's University and a former provincial deputy minister of citizenship, expects the policy will also have other consequences. The most striking will be a significant shift in source countries, she said. Alboim anticipates a decline in the number of migrants from China, for example, and a rise in the number from English-speaking countries.Such a shift would make Canada's immigrant intake more similar to Australia's. The Australian government raised immigrant language requirements over the last decade and its immigrants have fared better economically than those in Canada. But Australia also receives proportionally larger numbers from English-speaking countries such as the UK, Ireland and New Zealand, who tend to integrate more quickly.\"A focus on language does make eminent sense. But I think we have to be careful about how high we are setting the bar and whether that is going to exclude a whole group of people who can contribute to a very significant degree with a little bit of assistance,\" Alboim said.\"We don't need to restrict our entire federal skilled worker intake to only those who have a high level of language, because that can develop over time.\"Canada adopted a points-based immigration admission system in the 1960s to guard against any discrimination on the basis of race, religion or national origin, which had been shameful features of immigration policy in the past. Although it has awarded a certain number of points for language ability, it will now require that immigrants wishing to work in the professions demonstrate \"fluency\" on standardised tests. A slightly lower level would be required for those in skilled trades.While anyone can, in theory, learn a language, English or French fluency is more common in some parts of the world and Canada may be taking a step, intentional or not, towards targeting source countries.Debbie Douglas, executive director of the Ontario Council of Agencies Serving Immigrants, fears that the new policy will screen out people from the global south. \"We can't discriminate against folks who don't sound like us. That might mean more propping up of language teaching [for new immigrants] but that's a very small price to pay for helping people contribute to building our country,\" Douglas said.\"We have committed to a multicultural ethos. We've agreed that Canada is a diverse country, that it's one of our strengths, that it makes us stronger socially and economically.\"Kenney has said it is hard to predict what impact the new language requirements might have on source countries, as they tend to ebb and flow for a variety of reasons, including global economic conditions as well as selection criteria. His goal is to create a more flexible language grid that will contribute to improving the economic fortunes of those who are\u00a0selected.At the moment the federal government does not do much recruiting of immigrants, since it already receives many more applications than it can accept in a year. But provinces, employers and post-secondary institutions can and do target newcomers independently. For regions that struggle to attract immigrants, targeting has become an important way of encouraging population growth.The premier of Saskatchewan recently flew to Ireland to encourage unemployed Irish young people to embark for the booming prairies. And neighbouring Manitoba takes aim at groups it believes will settle comfortably in the notoriously cold province. Recently Manitoba has turned to Ukraine, a major source country a hundred years ago, to find people to settle rural areas.While an emphasis on language might produce better economic outcomes for immigrants in the short term, it could also have other effects. Canada may struggle to find enough people with sufficient levels of fluency to maintain its very high immigration levels, for example. A sudden shift in the attainability of immigration may have an impact on Canada's ties to a country such as China and studies have shown that trade ties increase through immigration.Howard Ramos, a sociologist at Dalhousie University in Nova Scotia, says statistics show the overwhelming majority of immigrants are able to speak one of Canada's official languages.\"The history of immigration has shown a high degree of language integration over time. So I'm not entirely sure the concern being raised is necessarily warranted,\" Ramos said.\"The points system was introduced to correct the injustices of focusing on culture and language too heavily. It was a society and a time that was much more ethnocentric. I don't think it's a time we should try and return to.\"", "tags": ["Migration and development", "Tefl", "Canada"], "title": "Canada to raise language bar"},{"date": "2012-05-17T17:23:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government is to mark the 25th anniversary of its green business advisers by closing the agency down.John Baird, Canada's foreign affairs minister and pointman for next month's Rio+20 Earth summit in Brazil, said this week that the National Roundtable for the Environment and Economy (NRTEE) would have its funding cut in 2013 because of the availability of information from thinktanks, the internet and universities.Baird told reporters that Canadian taxpayers should not have to pay for an organisation that has produced 10 reports promoting a carbon tax \u2013 \"something that the people of Canada have repeatedly rejected\".\"But that's not correct,\" the Roundtable's CEO, David McLaughlin, told the Guardian on Thursday, adding that it had never advocated a carbon tax but had looked at cap and trade for regulating Canada's greenhouse gas emissions in a 2009 report commissioned by the government. \"Which was government policy at the time,\" said McLaughlin.McLaughlin, a former chief of staff to federal finance minister Jim Flaherty, stressed there was always original analysis in its reports, making available information that would not otherwise be in the public domain. McLaughlin also pointed to the Roundtable's ability to combine research while convening people from industry as well as the environmental sector together.Only on Wednesday the NRTEE provided an environmental life cycle analysis commissioned by the federal environment minister, Peter Kent, and a climate change report is due out next month that will look at provincial emissions reduction plans.The C$5.2 million funding for the NRTEE will cease as of 31 March next year under a wide-ranging omnibus budget bill C-38 that is currently before Canada's House of Commons. The legislation seeks to speed up natural resources projects such as oil and gas pipelines, and repeal the Kyoto Protocol Implementation Act.", "tags": ["Climate change", "Canada", "Environment", "Americas", "World news", "Carbon tax", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "Canada axes green advisory body"},{"date": "2012-06-29T16:45:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When I say Canada, you say \u2026 ? Sigh. We all know that Americans don't pay much attention to its 'hat', but when Emma from Degrassi got an STD, you know she was covered by national healthcare! So really, Twitter folk, you should have known better.Buzzfeed's Dave Stopera collected tweets of conservative reactions to the Obamacare ruling with the unlikely threat of a move to Canada \u2013 a country with a single-payer, national healthcare system. How about that? Twitter took the opportunity to flex its wit and we've collected the best reactions. ", "tags": ["Twitter", "US healthcare"], "title": "The Obamacare moving-to-Canada threats: how stupid are they?"},{"date": "2012-06-22T11:09:21Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canadian authorities have announced that plans to eavesdrop on travellers' conversations at airports and border crossings have been \"halted\" after a public outcry.Questions about an audio recording policy were first raised last week. Journalists discovered that equipment had been installed at Ottawa's international airport to monitor passengers in the \"customs controlled areas\". A Canada Border Services Agency official said that no audio had yet been recorded but the technology was intended to \"record conversations\". The government claimed that it needed such tools to catch smugglers and keep criminals and other unwelcome individuals out of Canada.The extent of the monitoring at Canadian ports of entry is not yet clear but in an email to a journalist, the CBSA said: \"AV monitoring and recording technology has been in use for many years,\" It added that the information was usually deleted after 30 days, and signs warned travellers when they were in an area where audio recordings were made.More than 90% of respondents to a CBC (Canadian Broadcasting Corporation) Online poll described the move as \"excessive.\"Chantal Bernier, Canada's deputy privacy watchdog, criticised the CBSA for not following proper procedures \u2013 which include submitting to a privacy review by her agency. The CBSA says it is now filing the necessary documents.Perry Flint of the International Air Transport Association (IATA) told the Guardian that while CCTV was now in widespread use, he hadn't heard of audio recordings being made of travellers anywhere else in the world.The move could be illegal under Canada's Charter of Rights, which guards against unreasonable search and seizure. Sukanya Pillay of the Canadian Civil Liberties Association said that any measure intruding on personal privacy had to be \"justifiable\" and \"proportional\" under the law, and demanded a privacy review.Vic Toews, minister of public safety, initially defended the policy, insisting privacy rights of \"law-abiding Canadian citizens\" would be respected. But within 24 hours he was forced to tell the CBSA to stop any audio recording \u2013 at least until the review was completed.", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Canada", "Air transport", "Travel"], "title": "Canada forced to drop plans to eavesdrop on travellers"},{"date": "2012-09-02T21:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In an anniversary-obsessed year \u2013 with the Titanic centenary, the bicentenary of Dickens's birth (and Shakespeare's 448th), and the Queen's Diamond Jubilee \u2013 one such opportunity is largely conspicuous by its absence. Yet not everyone gets to burn down the White House after eating a fleeing president's dinner. There is even a helpful clue in the title: the War of 1812. It followed the US Congress's indignant declaration of war on 24 June against \u2013 yes \u2013 imperial Britain, a country grappling with a mad King George III, a murdered PM (Spencer Perceval) and a 20-year struggle with France.Strange that, apart from a couple of new histories, the 30-month conflict on land, sea and lake has had little attention in either country, though Canada pays more. Its existence as an independent country with an undefended 3,000-mile land border is one of several major consequences of a silly conflict that embarrassed both sides \u2013 and still does.Britain had its hands full fighting Napoleon in 1812, and (as in 1914-17) Americans were cross with the way both sides' embargoes disrupted their trade. But they were especially cross with maritime Britain for seizing British-born sailors to serve in the Royal Navy, and for supporting tribal warriors like Tecumseh in the frontier wars.Expansionist politicians from the south and west (\"war hawks\" as scornful critics put it) had their eye on French and Spanish colonies on the Mississippi and beyond. Taking British Canada would be \"a mere matter of marching\", ex-president Thomas Jefferson assured them. James Madison, the weak fourth president, didn't want war. Nor did merchants of New York and New England. But the Senate came within four votes (18-14) of declaring war on France too. Madness. A shambolic three-pronged US invasion of Canada was repelled, not least by loyalists who fled America in the war of independence. Parts of Maine were occupied.It was not all one-way. The infant US navy was a meritocracy, grossly outnumbered, but its ships better designed with bigger guns, its privateers harrying British shipping in the Irish Sea. Overall Nelson's navy prevailed, but its \"sacred spell of invincibility\" was shattered, the Brits admitted.Once Bonaparte had been dispatched (briefly) to exile in Elba, some 14,000 of Wellington's veterans (he declined to lead them) were dispatched to deal with what London saw as the treacherous stab in the back. Britain's own three-pronged attack on New York, Baltimore (where the defence of Fort McHenry inspired The Star-Spangled Banner) and Washington fared little better \u2013 though British troops did trash Congress and burn the White House in retaliation for the burning of Toronto.US peace feelers had been out almost from day one and bore fruit in Ghent on Christmas Eve 1814, after London modified its arrogant terms and accepted the pre-war status quo. It left awkward matters such as fishing and the 49th parallel (today's undefended border) to be quietly resolved later. Canada remained British, America marched west, the Indians were sold out.After all that US blood and treasure had been wasted, the war hawks might have been in trouble, but for a stroke of luck. Before news of the treaty crossed the Atlantic, General Andrew Jackson, a future president, thrashed the Brits (2,000 dead and wounded, three generals killed) in defence of New Orleans on January 8 1815. It was a fig-leaf, but a good one for emerging national self-confidence.The two sides never fought again, despite some hairy moments during the American civil war (there was a UK pro-slavery lobby) and (shipping issues again) in the first world war. The balance of economic and military power remorselessly swung America's way until, in the dark days of 1940-41, Britain embraced its own subordination.It is a tribute to the myth-making power of selective memory that, besides the odd uneasy joke by David Cameron, few in the Anglo-American family refer to the scandal of 1812 that almost led to divorce.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "UK news", "US news", "France", "Europe"], "title": "The war that Canada won | Michael White"},{"date": "2012-09-02T21:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In an anniversary-obsessed year \u2013 with the Titanic centenary, the bicentenary of Dickens's birth (and Shakespeare's 448th), and the Queen's Diamond Jubilee \u2013 one such opportunity is largely conspicuous by its absence. Yet not everyone gets to burn down the White House after eating a fleeing president's dinner. There is even a helpful clue in the title: the War of 1812. It followed the US Congress's indignant declaration of war on 24 June against \u2013 yes \u2013 imperial Britain, a country grappling with a mad King George III, a murdered PM (Spencer Perceval) and a 20-year struggle with France.Strange that, apart from a couple of new histories, the 30-month conflict on land, sea and lake has had little attention in either country, though Canada pays more. Its existence as an independent country with an undefended 3,000-mile land border is one of several major consequences of a silly conflict that embarrassed both sides \u2013 and still does.Britain had its hands full fighting Napoleon in 1812, and (as in 1914-17) Americans were cross with the way both sides' embargoes disrupted their trade. But they were especially cross with maritime Britain for seizing British-born sailors to serve in the Royal Navy, and for supporting tribal warriors like Tecumseh in the frontier wars.Expansionist politicians from the south and west (\"war hawks\" as scornful critics put it) had their eye on French and Spanish colonies on the Mississippi and beyond. Taking British Canada would be \"a mere matter of marching\", ex-president Thomas Jefferson assured them. James Madison, the weak fourth president, didn't want war. Nor did merchants of New York and New England. But the Senate came within four votes (18-14) of declaring war on France too. Madness. A shambolic three-pronged US invasion of Canada was repelled, not least by loyalists who fled America in the war of independence. Parts of Maine were occupied.It was not all one-way. The infant US navy was a meritocracy, grossly outnumbered, but its ships better designed with bigger guns, its privateers harrying British shipping in the Irish Sea. Overall Nelson's navy prevailed, but its \"sacred spell of invincibility\" was shattered, the Brits admitted.Once Bonaparte had been dispatched (briefly) to exile in Elba, some 14,000 of Wellington's veterans (he declined to lead them) were dispatched to deal with what London saw as the treacherous stab in the back. Britain's own three-pronged attack on New York, Baltimore (where the defence of Fort McHenry inspired The Star-Spangled Banner) and Washington fared little better \u2013 though British troops did trash Congress and burn the White House in retaliation for the burning of Toronto.US peace feelers had been out almost from day one and bore fruit in Ghent on Christmas Eve 1814, after London modified its arrogant terms and accepted the pre-war status quo. It left awkward matters such as fishing and the 49th parallel (today's undefended border) to be quietly resolved later. Canada remained British, America marched west, the Indians were sold out.After all that US blood and treasure had been wasted, the war hawks might have been in trouble, but for a stroke of luck. Before news of the treaty crossed the Atlantic, General Andrew Jackson, a future president, thrashed the Brits (2,000 dead and wounded, three generals killed) in defence of New Orleans on January 8 1815. It was a fig-leaf, but a good one for emerging national self-confidence.The two sides never fought again, despite some hairy moments during the American civil war (there was a UK pro-slavery lobby) and (shipping issues again) in the first world war. The balance of economic and military power remorselessly swung America's way until, in the dark days of 1940-41, Britain embraced its own subordination.It is a tribute to the myth-making power of selective memory that, besides the odd uneasy joke by David Cameron, few in the Anglo-American family refer to the scandal of 1812 that almost led to divorce.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "UK news", "US news", "France", "Europe"], "title": "The war that Canada won | Michael White"},{"date": "2012-07-18T11:17:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The recent Rio+20 Conference taught us again a lesson that we should have learned by now: big governments working with large corporations are incapable of delivering what matters most \u2013 healthy children, safe food, air and water, community, fairness, happiness. If we are to master global poverty and climate change, then we must look beyond the institutions that have failed us and tap into Indigenous wisdom \u2013 to the insights and practices of people with 10,000-year track record of living sustainability.In other words, in a \"crowdsourcing\" era, it's time to tap into the wisdom of crowds \u2013 the kind that are ousting old dictators and choosing new leaders, many of them women and Indigenous people. It's time not for talking, but for building communities and economies. It's time for creating jobs and community-owned, clean-energy projects, even while restoring the role of culture and artists in the decision-making process.The problem \u2013 so clearly unresolved in Rio \u2013 is one of disconnection between crowds and their governments. \"Most governments are stuck in the 20th century ... top down, stable, predictable and all about execution,\" says Andrea Reimer, councillor, leader of the Green City Action Team in the West coast city of Vancouver.Cities, on the other hand, are closer to the people. They work well \"as a proving ground for resilience and innovation,\" Reimer says. That's why Vancouver borrows so freely from social innovators, people who she describes ad: \"nimble, innovative, creating the future we want, sharing power with the people ... tolerating risks, and supporting mobilized communities.\"British Columbia (BC) is complicated, there is an historic disconnect between government and people. In fully 80% of BC, one of Canada's larger provinces, there are no treaties with Indigenous Nations, no paperwork at all. This political mess is also an opportunity; map Indigenous populations globally and you will find the places with most biodiversity. Culture and nature dance; killing one, destroys the other.This is not peculiar to Canada. The UK also has rich ecosystems of such social innovation. For example, the Hebridean Isle of Eigg, has a diverse and effective leadership of women and men, young and old. No individual appears to claim ultimate authority over the Eigg story. On a recent visit, a crowd of 30 locals helped tell of a people who bought an island from a nasty landlord and built one of the world's cleanest community-owned energy systems. Crowds financed the buyout. Through networks and hard work, they raised \u00a31.5m from 10,000 people, and that was in the 1990's before crowd funding platforms existed.Eigg has many parallels to Canada's Indigenous communities, including that the Scots measure success by counting young people. Unlike most of the Highlands and Islands that have seen their youth decamp to the cities, Eigg is growing. Lucy Conway of the leaders in the community said that, \"Since the buyout, the island population has increased by 25% ... there is now a critical mass under 30 ... broadband allows them to scan the world and put the world of Eigg out there.\"Yet globally, indigenous people have been pummelled, first by colonisation and now globalisation \u2013 forces that transformed dignified subsistence to dependent impoverishment. Take the Xeni Gwet'in, a First Nations people who live in the unspoiled mountains only a few hundred kilometres north of Vancouver. Xeni Chief Marilyn Baptiste's ancestors have fought corporate and government invasions for hundreds of years and she leads a fight now against a gold mine that would harm a sacred and environmentally important Fish Lake. They are being offered payment, but Baptiste says: \"We don't want money, we want our land . . . We have never ceded rights or title to our land \u2026 we will not.\"Baptiste's people are unconquered, like the wild horses that still run on traditional Xeni territory. They survived being beaten for speaking their language, and still half the elders only speak their native T'silqotin. And now, while fighting Taseko Mine and its supporters \u2013 including the BC government \u2013 they are also pursuing their own, sustainable path, transitioning to 100% clean energy. It is here that crowds can help \u2013 that others can help protect one of the last places filled with Grizzly bears, eagles and wolves.Unlike the few, often damaging oil-and-gas sector investments in sustainable energy, success is usually far greater when communities co-develop clean energy, using the crowd's wisdom and resources and the artists' vision to support the engineers and the bankers.We all have ties to older worlds where art and culture were \"operating instructions.\" Our ancestors created stories, cave art, totem poles and standing stones to guide us. They told us not to take too much, to live in harmony with animals and plants, and to honour the abundance of the sun. When ancient art is acid etched on solar panels, when the community says we own our energy, the world heals.This is our moment; recent ancestors ended slavery and brought the vote to women. We can align ancient parts of us with the future; when elected people listen to elders and crowds.Donna Morton is chief executive of First Power \u2013 a B Corporation inspired by Paul Hawken's Blessed Unrest \u2013 that co-develops clean technology, jobs, economy with indigenous communities. She is an Ashoka, Unreasonable and Ogunte fellow, recently winner of the Women's Social Leadership Awards. You can listen to her TEDx talks here. She tweets @First_PowerThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the social enterprise network, click here", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Social enterprises", "Society", "Canada", "Small business", "Crowdsourcing", "Technology"], "title": "Crowdsourcing the future in Canada"},{"date": "2012-09-02T21:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In an anniversary-obsessed year \u2013 with the Titanic centenary, the bicentenary of Dickens's birth (and Shakespeare's 448th), and the Queen's Diamond Jubilee \u2013 one such opportunity is largely conspicuous by its absence. Yet not everyone gets to burn down the White House after eating a fleeing president's dinner. There is even a helpful clue in the title: the War of 1812. It followed the US Congress's indignant declaration of war on 24 June against \u2013 yes \u2013 imperial Britain, a country grappling with a mad King George III, a murdered PM (Spencer Perceval) and a 20-year struggle with France.Strange that, apart from a couple of new histories, the 30-month conflict on land, sea and lake has had little attention in either country, though Canada pays more. Its existence as an independent country with an undefended 3,000-mile land border is one of several major consequences of a silly conflict that embarrassed both sides \u2013 and still does.Britain had its hands full fighting Napoleon in 1812, and (as in 1914-17) Americans were cross with the way both sides' embargoes disrupted their trade. But they were especially cross with maritime Britain for seizing British-born sailors to serve in the Royal Navy, and for supporting tribal warriors like Tecumseh in the frontier wars.Expansionist politicians from the south and west (\"war hawks\" as scornful critics put it) had their eye on French and Spanish colonies on the Mississippi and beyond. Taking British Canada would be \"a mere matter of marching\", ex-president Thomas Jefferson assured them. James Madison, the weak fourth president, didn't want war. Nor did merchants of New York and New England. But the Senate came within four votes (18-14) of declaring war on France too. Madness. A shambolic three-pronged US invasion of Canada was repelled, not least by loyalists who fled America in the war of independence. Parts of Maine were occupied.It was not all one-way. The infant US navy was a meritocracy, grossly outnumbered, but its ships better designed with bigger guns, its privateers harrying British shipping in the Irish Sea. Overall Nelson's navy prevailed, but its \"sacred spell of invincibility\" was shattered, the Brits admitted.Once Bonaparte had been dispatched (briefly) to exile in Elba, some 14,000 of Wellington's veterans (he declined to lead them) were dispatched to deal with what London saw as the treacherous stab in the back. Britain's own three-pronged attack on New York, Baltimore (where the defence of Fort McHenry inspired The Star-Spangled Banner) and Washington fared little better \u2013 though British troops did trash Congress and burn the White House in retaliation for the burning of Toronto.US peace feelers had been out almost from day one and bore fruit in Ghent on Christmas Eve 1814, after London modified its arrogant terms and accepted the pre-war status quo. It left awkward matters such as fishing and the 49th parallel (today's undefended border) to be quietly resolved later. Canada remained British, America marched west, the Indians were sold out.After all that US blood and treasure had been wasted, the war hawks might have been in trouble, but for a stroke of luck. Before news of the treaty crossed the Atlantic, General Andrew Jackson, a future president, thrashed the Brits (2,000 dead and wounded, three generals killed) in defence of New Orleans on January 8 1815. It was a fig-leaf, but a good one for emerging national self-confidence.The two sides never fought again, despite some hairy moments during the American civil war (there was a UK pro-slavery lobby) and (shipping issues again) in the first world war. The balance of economic and military power remorselessly swung America's way until, in the dark days of 1940-41, Britain embraced its own subordination.It is a tribute to the myth-making power of selective memory that, besides the odd uneasy joke by David Cameron, few in the Anglo-American family refer to the scandal of 1812 that almost led to divorce.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "UK news", "US news", "France", "Europe"], "title": "The war that Canada won | Michael White"},{"date": "2012-07-18T11:17:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The recent Rio+20 Conference taught us again a lesson that we should have learned by now: big governments working with large corporations are incapable of delivering what matters most \u2013 healthy children, safe food, air and water, community, fairness, happiness. If we are to master global poverty and climate change, then we must look beyond the institutions that have failed us and tap into Indigenous wisdom \u2013 to the insights and practices of people with 10,000-year track record of living sustainability.In other words, in a \"crowdsourcing\" era, it's time to tap into the wisdom of crowds \u2013 the kind that are ousting old dictators and choosing new leaders, many of them women and Indigenous people. It's time not for talking, but for building communities and economies. It's time for creating jobs and community-owned, clean-energy projects, even while restoring the role of culture and artists in the decision-making process.The problem \u2013 so clearly unresolved in Rio \u2013 is one of disconnection between crowds and their governments. \"Most governments are stuck in the 20th century ... top down, stable, predictable and all about execution,\" says Andrea Reimer, councillor, leader of the Green City Action Team in the West coast city of Vancouver.Cities, on the other hand, are closer to the people. They work well \"as a proving ground for resilience and innovation,\" Reimer says. That's why Vancouver borrows so freely from social innovators, people who she describes ad: \"nimble, innovative, creating the future we want, sharing power with the people ... tolerating risks, and supporting mobilized communities.\"British Columbia (BC) is complicated, there is an historic disconnect between government and people. In fully 80% of BC, one of Canada's larger provinces, there are no treaties with Indigenous Nations, no paperwork at all. This political mess is also an opportunity; map Indigenous populations globally and you will find the places with most biodiversity. Culture and nature dance; killing one, destroys the other.This is not peculiar to Canada. The UK also has rich ecosystems of such social innovation. For example, the Hebridean Isle of Eigg, has a diverse and effective leadership of women and men, young and old. No individual appears to claim ultimate authority over the Eigg story. On a recent visit, a crowd of 30 locals helped tell of a people who bought an island from a nasty landlord and built one of the world's cleanest community-owned energy systems. Crowds financed the buyout. Through networks and hard work, they raised \u00a31.5m from 10,000 people, and that was in the 1990's before crowd funding platforms existed.Eigg has many parallels to Canada's Indigenous communities, including that the Scots measure success by counting young people. Unlike most of the Highlands and Islands that have seen their youth decamp to the cities, Eigg is growing. Lucy Conway of the leaders in the community said that, \"Since the buyout, the island population has increased by 25% ... there is now a critical mass under 30 ... broadband allows them to scan the world and put the world of Eigg out there.\"Yet globally, indigenous people have been pummelled, first by colonisation and now globalisation \u2013 forces that transformed dignified subsistence to dependent impoverishment. Take the Xeni Gwet'in, a First Nations people who live in the unspoiled mountains only a few hundred kilometres north of Vancouver. Xeni Chief Marilyn Baptiste's ancestors have fought corporate and government invasions for hundreds of years and she leads a fight now against a gold mine that would harm a sacred and environmentally important Fish Lake. They are being offered payment, but Baptiste says: \"We don't want money, we want our land . . . We have never ceded rights or title to our land \u2026 we will not.\"Baptiste's people are unconquered, like the wild horses that still run on traditional Xeni territory. They survived being beaten for speaking their language, and still half the elders only speak their native T'silqotin. And now, while fighting Taseko Mine and its supporters \u2013 including the BC government \u2013 they are also pursuing their own, sustainable path, transitioning to 100% clean energy. It is here that crowds can help \u2013 that others can help protect one of the last places filled with Grizzly bears, eagles and wolves.Unlike the few, often damaging oil-and-gas sector investments in sustainable energy, success is usually far greater when communities co-develop clean energy, using the crowd's wisdom and resources and the artists' vision to support the engineers and the bankers.We all have ties to older worlds where art and culture were \"operating instructions.\" Our ancestors created stories, cave art, totem poles and standing stones to guide us. They told us not to take too much, to live in harmony with animals and plants, and to honour the abundance of the sun. When ancient art is acid etched on solar panels, when the community says we own our energy, the world heals.This is our moment; recent ancestors ended slavery and brought the vote to women. We can align ancient parts of us with the future; when elected people listen to elders and crowds.Donna Morton is chief executive of First Power \u2013 a B Corporation inspired by Paul Hawken's Blessed Unrest \u2013 that co-develops clean technology, jobs, economy with indigenous communities. She is an Ashoka, Unreasonable and Ogunte fellow, recently winner of the Women's Social Leadership Awards. You can listen to her TEDx talks here. She tweets @First_PowerThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the social enterprise network, click here", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Social enterprises", "Society", "Canada", "Small business", "Crowdsourcing", "Technology"], "title": "Crowdsourcing the future in Canada"},{"date": "2012-09-27T18:34:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Jonathan Kaiman depicts an increasingly ugly and intolerant Canada characterised by wanton environmental despoliation and paralysing political soul-searching (Maple leaf ragged: what ails Canada?, 15 September). I suspect this verdict would surprise the nine out of 10 Canadians who recently told pollsters that \"Canada is the greatest country in the world\".It would also confound the many observers who recognise Canada's global economic leadership, with the strongest fiscal position in the G8.I will confine myself to correcting Kaiman's slanders against the most open and generous immigration system in the developed world. He claims that we are \"tightening\" immigration. In fact, our government has increased immigration to the highest sustained level in Canadian history, and the highest per-capita level in the developed world. He writes that we have \"radically adjusted the criteria for successful applications\", when in fact we are making our system more flexible, allowing skilled tradesmen, semi-skilled workers and foreign students to become permanent residents for the first time. He claims that we \"cut resettlement programmes en masse\", when in fact we are increasing our refugee resettlement programmes by 20% and have tripled funding for their integration.Kaiman wrongly suggests that we have \"eliminated all but the most basic healthcare for most refugee groups\", when in fact we will continue to fund healthcare for most refugees \u2013 such as those resettled from UN camps \u2013 more generously than Canada's general health service. He bemoans a fictitious \"harsh crackdown on illegal immigrants\", suggesting that there is something untoward about seeking to remove citizenship from people who obtained it fraudulently and have never lived in Canada. Far from \"harsh\", those who contest our efforts have access to an extensive process of judicial reviews and appeals.Kaiman laments our refusal rate for citizenship when, in fact, our overall acceptance rate last year was 92%. We are also proud to have the highest naturalisation rate in the developed world, with 85% of permanent residents eventually becoming full citizens. Finally, Kaiman imagines that the number of immigrants to Canada from China and India has halved in the last six years, when in fact it has remained constant, with an annual average of 28,000 permanent residents from India, and an annual average of 30,000 permanent residents from China between 2006 and 2010 (the last full year of available data).Kaiman's imaginary 50% reduction in Asian immigration is the basis of his most outrageous claim, that \"the changes point to a deep-rooted, yet widely ignored undercurrent of racism in Canadian society\". While no society can claim to be entirely free of prejudice, Canada is the only major western democracy without a xenophobic or anti-immigration political movement, and consistently records the highest levels of public tolerance for ethnic, religious and cultural diversity in the developed world.Canada is frequently lauded as a model of peaceful pluralism. Our government's recent reforms have made Canada more open to legitimate immigrants but harder on those seeking to abuse our generosity. It is a pity that\u00a0Kaiman has aligned himself with the radical fringe of racial grievance-mongers in mistaking the rule of law \u2013 the backbone of a free and open society \u2013 for discrimination. ", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Race issues"], "title": "Canada has not become ugly and intolerant | Jason Kenney"},{"date": "2012-09-02T21:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In an anniversary-obsessed year \u2013 with the Titanic centenary, the bicentenary of Dickens's birth (and Shakespeare's 448th), and the Queen's Diamond Jubilee \u2013 one such opportunity is largely conspicuous by its absence. Yet not everyone gets to burn down the White House after eating a fleeing president's dinner. There is even a helpful clue in the title: the War of 1812. It followed the US Congress's indignant declaration of war on 24 June against \u2013 yes \u2013 imperial Britain, a country grappling with a mad King George III, a murdered PM (Spencer Perceval) and a 20-year struggle with France.Strange that, apart from a couple of new histories, the 30-month conflict on land, sea and lake has had little attention in either country, though Canada pays more. Its existence as an independent country with an undefended 3,000-mile land border is one of several major consequences of a silly conflict that embarrassed both sides \u2013 and still does.Britain had its hands full fighting Napoleon in 1812, and (as in 1914-17) Americans were cross with the way both sides' embargoes disrupted their trade. But they were especially cross with maritime Britain for seizing British-born sailors to serve in the Royal Navy, and for supporting tribal warriors like Tecumseh in the frontier wars.Expansionist politicians from the south and west (\"war hawks\" as scornful critics put it) had their eye on French and Spanish colonies on the Mississippi and beyond. Taking British Canada would be \"a mere matter of marching\", ex-president Thomas Jefferson assured them. James Madison, the weak fourth president, didn't want war. Nor did merchants of New York and New England. But the Senate came within four votes (18-14) of declaring war on France too. Madness. A shambolic three-pronged US invasion of Canada was repelled, not least by loyalists who fled America in the war of independence. Parts of Maine were occupied.It was not all one-way. The infant US navy was a meritocracy, grossly outnumbered, but its ships better designed with bigger guns, its privateers harrying British shipping in the Irish Sea. Overall Nelson's navy prevailed, but its \"sacred spell of invincibility\" was shattered, the Brits admitted.Once Bonaparte had been dispatched (briefly) to exile in Elba, some 14,000 of Wellington's veterans (he declined to lead them) were dispatched to deal with what London saw as the treacherous stab in the back. Britain's own three-pronged attack on New York, Baltimore (where the defence of Fort McHenry inspired The Star-Spangled Banner) and Washington fared little better \u2013 though British troops did trash Congress and burn the White House in retaliation for the burning of Toronto.US peace feelers had been out almost from day one and bore fruit in Ghent on Christmas Eve 1814, after London modified its arrogant terms and accepted the pre-war status quo. It left awkward matters such as fishing and the 49th parallel (today's undefended border) to be quietly resolved later. Canada remained British, America marched west, the Indians were sold out.After all that US blood and treasure had been wasted, the war hawks might have been in trouble, but for a stroke of luck. Before news of the treaty crossed the Atlantic, General Andrew Jackson, a future president, thrashed the Brits (2,000 dead and wounded, three generals killed) in defence of New Orleans on January 8 1815. It was a fig-leaf, but a good one for emerging national self-confidence.The two sides never fought again, despite some hairy moments during the American civil war (there was a UK pro-slavery lobby) and (shipping issues again) in the first world war. The balance of economic and military power remorselessly swung America's way until, in the dark days of 1940-41, Britain embraced its own subordination.It is a tribute to the myth-making power of selective memory that, besides the odd uneasy joke by David Cameron, few in the Anglo-American family refer to the scandal of 1812 that almost led to divorce.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "UK news", "US news", "France", "Europe"], "title": "The war that Canada won | Michael White"},{"date": "2012-07-18T11:17:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The recent Rio+20 Conference taught us again a lesson that we should have learned by now: big governments working with large corporations are incapable of delivering what matters most \u2013 healthy children, safe food, air and water, community, fairness, happiness. If we are to master global poverty and climate change, then we must look beyond the institutions that have failed us and tap into Indigenous wisdom \u2013 to the insights and practices of people with 10,000-year track record of living sustainability.In other words, in a \"crowdsourcing\" era, it's time to tap into the wisdom of crowds \u2013 the kind that are ousting old dictators and choosing new leaders, many of them women and Indigenous people. It's time not for talking, but for building communities and economies. It's time for creating jobs and community-owned, clean-energy projects, even while restoring the role of culture and artists in the decision-making process.The problem \u2013 so clearly unresolved in Rio \u2013 is one of disconnection between crowds and their governments. \"Most governments are stuck in the 20th century ... top down, stable, predictable and all about execution,\" says Andrea Reimer, councillor, leader of the Green City Action Team in the West coast city of Vancouver.Cities, on the other hand, are closer to the people. They work well \"as a proving ground for resilience and innovation,\" Reimer says. That's why Vancouver borrows so freely from social innovators, people who she describes ad: \"nimble, innovative, creating the future we want, sharing power with the people ... tolerating risks, and supporting mobilized communities.\"British Columbia (BC) is complicated, there is an historic disconnect between government and people. In fully 80% of BC, one of Canada's larger provinces, there are no treaties with Indigenous Nations, no paperwork at all. This political mess is also an opportunity; map Indigenous populations globally and you will find the places with most biodiversity. Culture and nature dance; killing one, destroys the other.This is not peculiar to Canada. The UK also has rich ecosystems of such social innovation. For example, the Hebridean Isle of Eigg, has a diverse and effective leadership of women and men, young and old. No individual appears to claim ultimate authority over the Eigg story. On a recent visit, a crowd of 30 locals helped tell of a people who bought an island from a nasty landlord and built one of the world's cleanest community-owned energy systems. Crowds financed the buyout. Through networks and hard work, they raised \u00a31.5m from 10,000 people, and that was in the 1990's before crowd funding platforms existed.Eigg has many parallels to Canada's Indigenous communities, including that the Scots measure success by counting young people. Unlike most of the Highlands and Islands that have seen their youth decamp to the cities, Eigg is growing. Lucy Conway of the leaders in the community said that, \"Since the buyout, the island population has increased by 25% ... there is now a critical mass under 30 ... broadband allows them to scan the world and put the world of Eigg out there.\"Yet globally, indigenous people have been pummelled, first by colonisation and now globalisation \u2013 forces that transformed dignified subsistence to dependent impoverishment. Take the Xeni Gwet'in, a First Nations people who live in the unspoiled mountains only a few hundred kilometres north of Vancouver. Xeni Chief Marilyn Baptiste's ancestors have fought corporate and government invasions for hundreds of years and she leads a fight now against a gold mine that would harm a sacred and environmentally important Fish Lake. They are being offered payment, but Baptiste says: \"We don't want money, we want our land . . . We have never ceded rights or title to our land \u2026 we will not.\"Baptiste's people are unconquered, like the wild horses that still run on traditional Xeni territory. They survived being beaten for speaking their language, and still half the elders only speak their native T'silqotin. And now, while fighting Taseko Mine and its supporters \u2013 including the BC government \u2013 they are also pursuing their own, sustainable path, transitioning to 100% clean energy. It is here that crowds can help \u2013 that others can help protect one of the last places filled with Grizzly bears, eagles and wolves.Unlike the few, often damaging oil-and-gas sector investments in sustainable energy, success is usually far greater when communities co-develop clean energy, using the crowd's wisdom and resources and the artists' vision to support the engineers and the bankers.We all have ties to older worlds where art and culture were \"operating instructions.\" Our ancestors created stories, cave art, totem poles and standing stones to guide us. They told us not to take too much, to live in harmony with animals and plants, and to honour the abundance of the sun. When ancient art is acid etched on solar panels, when the community says we own our energy, the world heals.This is our moment; recent ancestors ended slavery and brought the vote to women. We can align ancient parts of us with the future; when elected people listen to elders and crowds.Donna Morton is chief executive of First Power \u2013 a B Corporation inspired by Paul Hawken's Blessed Unrest \u2013 that co-develops clean technology, jobs, economy with indigenous communities. She is an Ashoka, Unreasonable and Ogunte fellow, recently winner of the Women's Social Leadership Awards. You can listen to her TEDx talks here. She tweets @First_PowerThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the social enterprise network, click here", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Social enterprises", "Society", "Canada", "Small business", "Crowdsourcing", "Technology"], "title": "Crowdsourcing the future in Canada"},{"date": "2012-09-27T18:34:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Jonathan Kaiman depicts an increasingly ugly and intolerant Canada characterised by wanton environmental despoliation and paralysing political soul-searching (Maple leaf ragged: what ails Canada?, 15 September). I suspect this verdict would surprise the nine out of 10 Canadians who recently told pollsters that \"Canada is the greatest country in the world\".It would also confound the many observers who recognise Canada's global economic leadership, with the strongest fiscal position in the G8.I will confine myself to correcting Kaiman's slanders against the most open and generous immigration system in the developed world. He claims that we are \"tightening\" immigration. In fact, our government has increased immigration to the highest sustained level in Canadian history, and the highest per-capita level in the developed world. He writes that we have \"radically adjusted the criteria for successful applications\", when in fact we are making our system more flexible, allowing skilled tradesmen, semi-skilled workers and foreign students to become permanent residents for the first time. He claims that we \"cut resettlement programmes en masse\", when in fact we are increasing our refugee resettlement programmes by 20% and have tripled funding for their integration.Kaiman wrongly suggests that we have \"eliminated all but the most basic healthcare for most refugee groups\", when in fact we will continue to fund healthcare for most refugees \u2013 such as those resettled from UN camps \u2013 more generously than Canada's general health service. He bemoans a fictitious \"harsh crackdown on illegal immigrants\", suggesting that there is something untoward about seeking to remove citizenship from people who obtained it fraudulently and have never lived in Canada. Far from \"harsh\", those who contest our efforts have access to an extensive process of judicial reviews and appeals.Kaiman laments our refusal rate for citizenship when, in fact, our overall acceptance rate last year was 92%. We are also proud to have the highest naturalisation rate in the developed world, with 85% of permanent residents eventually becoming full citizens. Finally, Kaiman imagines that the number of immigrants to Canada from China and India has halved in the last six years, when in fact it has remained constant, with an annual average of 28,000 permanent residents from India, and an annual average of 30,000 permanent residents from China between 2006 and 2010 (the last full year of available data).Kaiman's imaginary 50% reduction in Asian immigration is the basis of his most outrageous claim, that \"the changes point to a deep-rooted, yet widely ignored undercurrent of racism in Canadian society\". While no society can claim to be entirely free of prejudice, Canada is the only major western democracy without a xenophobic or anti-immigration political movement, and consistently records the highest levels of public tolerance for ethnic, religious and cultural diversity in the developed world.Canada is frequently lauded as a model of peaceful pluralism. Our government's recent reforms have made Canada more open to legitimate immigrants but harder on those seeking to abuse our generosity. It is a pity that\u00a0Kaiman has aligned himself with the radical fringe of racial grievance-mongers in mistaking the rule of law \u2013 the backbone of a free and open society \u2013 for discrimination. ", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Race issues"], "title": "Canada has not become ugly and intolerant | Jason Kenney"},{"date": "2012-09-14T13:00:13Z", "country": "canada", "content": "There's trouble brewing in Canada.It's difficult to perceive on first glance. In Toronto, the air is clean, crime rates are low and healthcare is universal. Yet an undercurrent of anxiety courses through the country's public discourse and its media; it dominates conversations in coffee shops and university hallways. A volley of recent polarising political developments has led many Canadians to ask whether their country's reputation as a tolerant, environmentally conscious international peacemaker is suddenly in doubt.A harsh crackdown on illegal immigrants has belied the notion of a country open to incomers. Quebec has elected a separatist provincial government, triggering political violence. The extraction of oil from the vast tar sands of Alberta has proven hugely controversial, as has the marginalisation of the country's First Nations indigenous people. In foreign policy, Canada is increasingly toeing the US line, most recently cutting diplomatic ties with Iran. And its Afghanistan deployment has been tainted by allegations of complicity in the torture of detainees.Some, though not all, of this tendency has been blamed on the country's conservative leadership, which gained a parliamentary majority in May last year. The prime minister, Stephen Harper, has tightened immigration policy, struck a hard line in the Middle East and adjusted environmental policy to encourage controversial oil extraction programmes in the country's vast northern hinterlands.\"Everybody knew that Harper would have a different agenda from that of the Liberals,\" said Herb Grubel, a professor emeritus at Simon Fraser University and former member of parliament. \"What he has been doing is putting into effect some of these ideas.\"Canada is one of the few countries in the world that still looks to immigration as a tool for nation-building \u2013 20% of Canadians were born abroad, and new immigrants add 0.8% to the country's population each year. Multiculturalism has been a formal policy since 1971; it's taught in the country's elementary schools.Yet over the past year immigration authorities have radically adjusted the criteria for successful applications and cut resettlement programmes en masse. In June, Ottawa provoked a firestorm of controversy \u2013 and sparked a spate of doctors' protests \u2013 when it eliminated all but the most basic healthcare for certain refugee groups. Last week, immigration minister Jason Kenney announced that 3,100 people would have their Canadian citizenship revoked for hiring immigration consultants to falsify their documents. Eleven thousand aspiring citizens are still under investigation.\"There's a lot that we need to fix pronto, otherwise the message goes out to the world that we're not a welcoming place,\" said Ratna Omidvar, president of Toronto-based immigration foundation Maytree.Since 2006, the refusal rate for Canadian citizenship applications has doubled; the number of immigrants from Asian countries such as China and India has halved.Some analysts say the changes point to a deep-rooted, yet widely ignored undercurrent of racism in Canadian society. In late August, news leaked that the Bank of Canada had removed an east Asian-looking woman from preliminary designs of its new $100 bill, replacing her with a caucasian. Chinese groups were outraged, causing the bank to issue a public apology.\"Fighting racism in the States is like punching a brick wall, but fighting it in Canada is like punching a marshmallow \u2013 it always melds back to the same shape,\" said Minelle Mahtani, a professor at University of Toronto Scarborough. \"We live in an ostrich-head-in-the-sand-like denial that racism exists in this country, and yet systemic discrimination is the norm.\"Intolerance is also rife in francophone Quebec, which elected the separatist Parti Quebecois leader Pauline Marois as premier on 4 September. Marois's ascent to power has been shadowed by violence: a man shot two people at the Montreal convention centre where her party was celebrating its victory, killing one and leaving the other in a critical condition. \"The English are waking up!\" the man shouted in French during his arrest, eliciting widespread soul-searching about the depth of the province's linguistic divide.Quebec was already reeling from a spring full of huge student-led street demonstrations. The movement, often referred to as the \"maple spring\", began as a smattering of peaceful protests against tuition fee hikes. But when the then incumbent Liberal administration passed an emergency law to crack down on demonstrators, simmering discontent exploded into full-blown dissent. At the height of the movement, almost 1,000 protesters were arrested in a 400,000-strong Montreal march, some of them as young as 15.Analysts say that Marois is unlikely to hold a referendum on independence \u2013 she is fighting from a minority position and popular support for secession has waned since Quebec's last referendum in 1995.Yet she has invited controversy by proposing measures that would restrict freedom of language and religion in the province. Her promise to strengthen Quebec's French language charter would restrict access for some groups to English junior colleges. Her \"secularism policy\" would ban religious symbols such as headscarves, skullcaps and hijabs in public offices. Yet it would allow crucifixes, which, according to Marois, symbolise traditional Quebec culture.\"There is still a large group of ethnic nationalists who believe that Quebec should be for the pure-wool francophones who founded this province,\" said Bruce Hicks, a professor of political science at Concordia University in Montreal. \"Pauline Marois, out of deference to this more extremist group in her party, sort of pandered to that.\"Almost 4,000km away from Montreal, the vast plains of northern Alberta province lie at the heart of another national debate. The region contains 140,000 sq km of \"tar sands\" \u2013 a mixture of sand, water and clay the texture of cold molasses \u2013 which contain copious amounts of highly viscous petroleum. Over the past decade, technological developments and soaring oil prices have made its extraction economically viable, making it a prime destination for major international oil companies.Critics say that Harper's environmental policy favours these companies over the long-term wellbeing of Canada's natural environment. Last month, Ottawa cancelled almost 3,000 environmental reviews on proposed development projects across the country, many of which involved tar sands oil extraction.The Canadian government has approved a 730-mile pipeline from the Alberta tar sands to the shores of British Columbia, where it will be loaded on to oil tankers and shipped to Asian markets. Environmental groups have launched a united stand against the project, claiming that Enbridge \u2013 the Calgary-based company at its head \u2013 has been dishonest about the risk of potential oil spills. In 2010, an Enbridge pipe burst in northern Michigan, leaving a still-visible oily sheen on the area's rivers.\"Canada has always been a natural resource extraction country \u2013 it's logging, it's hydro-power, it's mining, it's oil and gas,\" said Susan Casey-Lefkowitz, international director at the Natural Resources and Defence Council. \"But the tar sands is such a big resource, and it drew such major players, that it's really reshaped the way the government has dealt with environmental issues.\"Tar sands oil extraction has also underscored an already fraught relationship between the federal government and Canada's nearly 700,000 indigenous people, called First Nations. For decades, resource extraction on First Nations land and chronically underfunded schools have left many of these communities mired in poverty, alcoholism and disease.Gerald Amos, former chief of the Haisla Nation in coastal British Columbia, said that while his community used to survive by catching oolichan fish \u2013 a type of smelt \u2013 in the nearby Kitamaat river, this traditional way of life is long gone. Toxic dumping has destroyed the river, driving the fish to the brink of extinction. Amos fears that the Enbridge project will consume what's left of the wilderness near his home, where the pipeline will meet the coast.\"I think that the big issue for a lot of communities \u2013 one that really hasn't been grappled with yet \u2013 is the cumulative impact of what we call progress,\" he said. \"And that's something that I think communities are going to have to start grappling with very quickly.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "Quebec", "Tar sands", "Indigenous peoples", "Americas", "World news", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Environment"], "title": "Maple leaf ragged: what ails Canada?"},{"date": "2012-09-02T21:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In an anniversary-obsessed year \u2013 with the Titanic centenary, the bicentenary of Dickens's birth (and Shakespeare's 448th), and the Queen's Diamond Jubilee \u2013 one such opportunity is largely conspicuous by its absence. Yet not everyone gets to burn down the White House after eating a fleeing president's dinner. There is even a helpful clue in the title: the War of 1812. It followed the US Congress's indignant declaration of war on 24 June against \u2013 yes \u2013 imperial Britain, a country grappling with a mad King George III, a murdered PM (Spencer Perceval) and a 20-year struggle with France.Strange that, apart from a couple of new histories, the 30-month conflict on land, sea and lake has had little attention in either country, though Canada pays more. Its existence as an independent country with an undefended 3,000-mile land border is one of several major consequences of a silly conflict that embarrassed both sides \u2013 and still does.Britain had its hands full fighting Napoleon in 1812, and (as in 1914-17) Americans were cross with the way both sides' embargoes disrupted their trade. But they were especially cross with maritime Britain for seizing British-born sailors to serve in the Royal Navy, and for supporting tribal warriors like Tecumseh in the frontier wars.Expansionist politicians from the south and west (\"war hawks\" as scornful critics put it) had their eye on French and Spanish colonies on the Mississippi and beyond. Taking British Canada would be \"a mere matter of marching\", ex-president Thomas Jefferson assured them. James Madison, the weak fourth president, didn't want war. Nor did merchants of New York and New England. But the Senate came within four votes (18-14) of declaring war on France too. Madness. A shambolic three-pronged US invasion of Canada was repelled, not least by loyalists who fled America in the war of independence. Parts of Maine were occupied.It was not all one-way. The infant US navy was a meritocracy, grossly outnumbered, but its ships better designed with bigger guns, its privateers harrying British shipping in the Irish Sea. Overall Nelson's navy prevailed, but its \"sacred spell of invincibility\" was shattered, the Brits admitted.Once Bonaparte had been dispatched (briefly) to exile in Elba, some 14,000 of Wellington's veterans (he declined to lead them) were dispatched to deal with what London saw as the treacherous stab in the back. Britain's own three-pronged attack on New York, Baltimore (where the defence of Fort McHenry inspired The Star-Spangled Banner) and Washington fared little better \u2013 though British troops did trash Congress and burn the White House in retaliation for the burning of Toronto.US peace feelers had been out almost from day one and bore fruit in Ghent on Christmas Eve 1814, after London modified its arrogant terms and accepted the pre-war status quo. It left awkward matters such as fishing and the 49th parallel (today's undefended border) to be quietly resolved later. Canada remained British, America marched west, the Indians were sold out.After all that US blood and treasure had been wasted, the war hawks might have been in trouble, but for a stroke of luck. Before news of the treaty crossed the Atlantic, General Andrew Jackson, a future president, thrashed the Brits (2,000 dead and wounded, three generals killed) in defence of New Orleans on January 8 1815. It was a fig-leaf, but a good one for emerging national self-confidence.The two sides never fought again, despite some hairy moments during the American civil war (there was a UK pro-slavery lobby) and (shipping issues again) in the first world war. The balance of economic and military power remorselessly swung America's way until, in the dark days of 1940-41, Britain embraced its own subordination.It is a tribute to the myth-making power of selective memory that, besides the odd uneasy joke by David Cameron, few in the Anglo-American family refer to the scandal of 1812 that almost led to divorce.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "UK news", "US news", "France", "Europe"], "title": "The war that Canada won | Michael White"},{"date": "2012-07-18T11:17:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The recent Rio+20 Conference taught us again a lesson that we should have learned by now: big governments working with large corporations are incapable of delivering what matters most \u2013 healthy children, safe food, air and water, community, fairness, happiness. If we are to master global poverty and climate change, then we must look beyond the institutions that have failed us and tap into Indigenous wisdom \u2013 to the insights and practices of people with 10,000-year track record of living sustainability.In other words, in a \"crowdsourcing\" era, it's time to tap into the wisdom of crowds \u2013 the kind that are ousting old dictators and choosing new leaders, many of them women and Indigenous people. It's time not for talking, but for building communities and economies. It's time for creating jobs and community-owned, clean-energy projects, even while restoring the role of culture and artists in the decision-making process.The problem \u2013 so clearly unresolved in Rio \u2013 is one of disconnection between crowds and their governments. \"Most governments are stuck in the 20th century ... top down, stable, predictable and all about execution,\" says Andrea Reimer, councillor, leader of the Green City Action Team in the West coast city of Vancouver.Cities, on the other hand, are closer to the people. They work well \"as a proving ground for resilience and innovation,\" Reimer says. That's why Vancouver borrows so freely from social innovators, people who she describes ad: \"nimble, innovative, creating the future we want, sharing power with the people ... tolerating risks, and supporting mobilized communities.\"British Columbia (BC) is complicated, there is an historic disconnect between government and people. In fully 80% of BC, one of Canada's larger provinces, there are no treaties with Indigenous Nations, no paperwork at all. This political mess is also an opportunity; map Indigenous populations globally and you will find the places with most biodiversity. Culture and nature dance; killing one, destroys the other.This is not peculiar to Canada. The UK also has rich ecosystems of such social innovation. For example, the Hebridean Isle of Eigg, has a diverse and effective leadership of women and men, young and old. No individual appears to claim ultimate authority over the Eigg story. On a recent visit, a crowd of 30 locals helped tell of a people who bought an island from a nasty landlord and built one of the world's cleanest community-owned energy systems. Crowds financed the buyout. Through networks and hard work, they raised \u00a31.5m from 10,000 people, and that was in the 1990's before crowd funding platforms existed.Eigg has many parallels to Canada's Indigenous communities, including that the Scots measure success by counting young people. Unlike most of the Highlands and Islands that have seen their youth decamp to the cities, Eigg is growing. Lucy Conway of the leaders in the community said that, \"Since the buyout, the island population has increased by 25% ... there is now a critical mass under 30 ... broadband allows them to scan the world and put the world of Eigg out there.\"Yet globally, indigenous people have been pummelled, first by colonisation and now globalisation \u2013 forces that transformed dignified subsistence to dependent impoverishment. Take the Xeni Gwet'in, a First Nations people who live in the unspoiled mountains only a few hundred kilometres north of Vancouver. Xeni Chief Marilyn Baptiste's ancestors have fought corporate and government invasions for hundreds of years and she leads a fight now against a gold mine that would harm a sacred and environmentally important Fish Lake. They are being offered payment, but Baptiste says: \"We don't want money, we want our land . . . We have never ceded rights or title to our land \u2026 we will not.\"Baptiste's people are unconquered, like the wild horses that still run on traditional Xeni territory. They survived being beaten for speaking their language, and still half the elders only speak their native T'silqotin. And now, while fighting Taseko Mine and its supporters \u2013 including the BC government \u2013 they are also pursuing their own, sustainable path, transitioning to 100% clean energy. It is here that crowds can help \u2013 that others can help protect one of the last places filled with Grizzly bears, eagles and wolves.Unlike the few, often damaging oil-and-gas sector investments in sustainable energy, success is usually far greater when communities co-develop clean energy, using the crowd's wisdom and resources and the artists' vision to support the engineers and the bankers.We all have ties to older worlds where art and culture were \"operating instructions.\" Our ancestors created stories, cave art, totem poles and standing stones to guide us. They told us not to take too much, to live in harmony with animals and plants, and to honour the abundance of the sun. When ancient art is acid etched on solar panels, when the community says we own our energy, the world heals.This is our moment; recent ancestors ended slavery and brought the vote to women. We can align ancient parts of us with the future; when elected people listen to elders and crowds.Donna Morton is chief executive of First Power \u2013 a B Corporation inspired by Paul Hawken's Blessed Unrest \u2013 that co-develops clean technology, jobs, economy with indigenous communities. She is an Ashoka, Unreasonable and Ogunte fellow, recently winner of the Women's Social Leadership Awards. You can listen to her TEDx talks here. She tweets @First_PowerThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the social enterprise network, click here", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Social enterprises", "Society", "Canada", "Small business", "Crowdsourcing", "Technology"], "title": "Crowdsourcing the future in Canada"},{"date": "2012-09-27T18:34:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Jonathan Kaiman depicts an increasingly ugly and intolerant Canada characterised by wanton environmental despoliation and paralysing political soul-searching (Maple leaf ragged: what ails Canada?, 15 September). I suspect this verdict would surprise the nine out of 10 Canadians who recently told pollsters that \"Canada is the greatest country in the world\".It would also confound the many observers who recognise Canada's global economic leadership, with the strongest fiscal position in the G8.I will confine myself to correcting Kaiman's slanders against the most open and generous immigration system in the developed world. He claims that we are \"tightening\" immigration. In fact, our government has increased immigration to the highest sustained level in Canadian history, and the highest per-capita level in the developed world. He writes that we have \"radically adjusted the criteria for successful applications\", when in fact we are making our system more flexible, allowing skilled tradesmen, semi-skilled workers and foreign students to become permanent residents for the first time. He claims that we \"cut resettlement programmes en masse\", when in fact we are increasing our refugee resettlement programmes by 20% and have tripled funding for their integration.Kaiman wrongly suggests that we have \"eliminated all but the most basic healthcare for most refugee groups\", when in fact we will continue to fund healthcare for most refugees \u2013 such as those resettled from UN camps \u2013 more generously than Canada's general health service. He bemoans a fictitious \"harsh crackdown on illegal immigrants\", suggesting that there is something untoward about seeking to remove citizenship from people who obtained it fraudulently and have never lived in Canada. Far from \"harsh\", those who contest our efforts have access to an extensive process of judicial reviews and appeals.Kaiman laments our refusal rate for citizenship when, in fact, our overall acceptance rate last year was 92%. We are also proud to have the highest naturalisation rate in the developed world, with 85% of permanent residents eventually becoming full citizens. Finally, Kaiman imagines that the number of immigrants to Canada from China and India has halved in the last six years, when in fact it has remained constant, with an annual average of 28,000 permanent residents from India, and an annual average of 30,000 permanent residents from China between 2006 and 2010 (the last full year of available data).Kaiman's imaginary 50% reduction in Asian immigration is the basis of his most outrageous claim, that \"the changes point to a deep-rooted, yet widely ignored undercurrent of racism in Canadian society\". While no society can claim to be entirely free of prejudice, Canada is the only major western democracy without a xenophobic or anti-immigration political movement, and consistently records the highest levels of public tolerance for ethnic, religious and cultural diversity in the developed world.Canada is frequently lauded as a model of peaceful pluralism. Our government's recent reforms have made Canada more open to legitimate immigrants but harder on those seeking to abuse our generosity. It is a pity that\u00a0Kaiman has aligned himself with the radical fringe of racial grievance-mongers in mistaking the rule of law \u2013 the backbone of a free and open society \u2013 for discrimination. ", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Race issues"], "title": "Canada has not become ugly and intolerant | Jason Kenney"},{"date": "2012-09-14T13:00:13Z", "country": "canada", "content": "There's trouble brewing in Canada.It's difficult to perceive on first glance. In Toronto, the air is clean, crime rates are low and healthcare is universal. Yet an undercurrent of anxiety courses through the country's public discourse and its media; it dominates conversations in coffee shops and university hallways. A volley of recent polarising political developments has led many Canadians to ask whether their country's reputation as a tolerant, environmentally conscious international peacemaker is suddenly in doubt.A harsh crackdown on illegal immigrants has belied the notion of a country open to incomers. Quebec has elected a separatist provincial government, triggering political violence. The extraction of oil from the vast tar sands of Alberta has proven hugely controversial, as has the marginalisation of the country's First Nations indigenous people. In foreign policy, Canada is increasingly toeing the US line, most recently cutting diplomatic ties with Iran. And its Afghanistan deployment has been tainted by allegations of complicity in the torture of detainees.Some, though not all, of this tendency has been blamed on the country's conservative leadership, which gained a parliamentary majority in May last year. The prime minister, Stephen Harper, has tightened immigration policy, struck a hard line in the Middle East and adjusted environmental policy to encourage controversial oil extraction programmes in the country's vast northern hinterlands.\"Everybody knew that Harper would have a different agenda from that of the Liberals,\" said Herb Grubel, a professor emeritus at Simon Fraser University and former member of parliament. \"What he has been doing is putting into effect some of these ideas.\"Canada is one of the few countries in the world that still looks to immigration as a tool for nation-building \u2013 20% of Canadians were born abroad, and new immigrants add 0.8% to the country's population each year. Multiculturalism has been a formal policy since 1971; it's taught in the country's elementary schools.Yet over the past year immigration authorities have radically adjusted the criteria for successful applications and cut resettlement programmes en masse. In June, Ottawa provoked a firestorm of controversy \u2013 and sparked a spate of doctors' protests \u2013 when it eliminated all but the most basic healthcare for certain refugee groups. Last week, immigration minister Jason Kenney announced that 3,100 people would have their Canadian citizenship revoked for hiring immigration consultants to falsify their documents. Eleven thousand aspiring citizens are still under investigation.\"There's a lot that we need to fix pronto, otherwise the message goes out to the world that we're not a welcoming place,\" said Ratna Omidvar, president of Toronto-based immigration foundation Maytree.Since 2006, the refusal rate for Canadian citizenship applications has doubled; the number of immigrants from Asian countries such as China and India has halved.Some analysts say the changes point to a deep-rooted, yet widely ignored undercurrent of racism in Canadian society. In late August, news leaked that the Bank of Canada had removed an east Asian-looking woman from preliminary designs of its new $100 bill, replacing her with a caucasian. Chinese groups were outraged, causing the bank to issue a public apology.\"Fighting racism in the States is like punching a brick wall, but fighting it in Canada is like punching a marshmallow \u2013 it always melds back to the same shape,\" said Minelle Mahtani, a professor at University of Toronto Scarborough. \"We live in an ostrich-head-in-the-sand-like denial that racism exists in this country, and yet systemic discrimination is the norm.\"Intolerance is also rife in francophone Quebec, which elected the separatist Parti Quebecois leader Pauline Marois as premier on 4 September. Marois's ascent to power has been shadowed by violence: a man shot two people at the Montreal convention centre where her party was celebrating its victory, killing one and leaving the other in a critical condition. \"The English are waking up!\" the man shouted in French during his arrest, eliciting widespread soul-searching about the depth of the province's linguistic divide.Quebec was already reeling from a spring full of huge student-led street demonstrations. The movement, often referred to as the \"maple spring\", began as a smattering of peaceful protests against tuition fee hikes. But when the then incumbent Liberal administration passed an emergency law to crack down on demonstrators, simmering discontent exploded into full-blown dissent. At the height of the movement, almost 1,000 protesters were arrested in a 400,000-strong Montreal march, some of them as young as 15.Analysts say that Marois is unlikely to hold a referendum on independence \u2013 she is fighting from a minority position and popular support for secession has waned since Quebec's last referendum in 1995.Yet she has invited controversy by proposing measures that would restrict freedom of language and religion in the province. Her promise to strengthen Quebec's French language charter would restrict access for some groups to English junior colleges. Her \"secularism policy\" would ban religious symbols such as headscarves, skullcaps and hijabs in public offices. Yet it would allow crucifixes, which, according to Marois, symbolise traditional Quebec culture.\"There is still a large group of ethnic nationalists who believe that Quebec should be for the pure-wool francophones who founded this province,\" said Bruce Hicks, a professor of political science at Concordia University in Montreal. \"Pauline Marois, out of deference to this more extremist group in her party, sort of pandered to that.\"Almost 4,000km away from Montreal, the vast plains of northern Alberta province lie at the heart of another national debate. The region contains 140,000 sq km of \"tar sands\" \u2013 a mixture of sand, water and clay the texture of cold molasses \u2013 which contain copious amounts of highly viscous petroleum. Over the past decade, technological developments and soaring oil prices have made its extraction economically viable, making it a prime destination for major international oil companies.Critics say that Harper's environmental policy favours these companies over the long-term wellbeing of Canada's natural environment. Last month, Ottawa cancelled almost 3,000 environmental reviews on proposed development projects across the country, many of which involved tar sands oil extraction.The Canadian government has approved a 730-mile pipeline from the Alberta tar sands to the shores of British Columbia, where it will be loaded on to oil tankers and shipped to Asian markets. Environmental groups have launched a united stand against the project, claiming that Enbridge \u2013 the Calgary-based company at its head \u2013 has been dishonest about the risk of potential oil spills. In 2010, an Enbridge pipe burst in northern Michigan, leaving a still-visible oily sheen on the area's rivers.\"Canada has always been a natural resource extraction country \u2013 it's logging, it's hydro-power, it's mining, it's oil and gas,\" said Susan Casey-Lefkowitz, international director at the Natural Resources and Defence Council. \"But the tar sands is such a big resource, and it drew such major players, that it's really reshaped the way the government has dealt with environmental issues.\"Tar sands oil extraction has also underscored an already fraught relationship between the federal government and Canada's nearly 700,000 indigenous people, called First Nations. For decades, resource extraction on First Nations land and chronically underfunded schools have left many of these communities mired in poverty, alcoholism and disease.Gerald Amos, former chief of the Haisla Nation in coastal British Columbia, said that while his community used to survive by catching oolichan fish \u2013 a type of smelt \u2013 in the nearby Kitamaat river, this traditional way of life is long gone. Toxic dumping has destroyed the river, driving the fish to the brink of extinction. Amos fears that the Enbridge project will consume what's left of the wilderness near his home, where the pipeline will meet the coast.\"I think that the big issue for a lot of communities \u2013 one that really hasn't been grappled with yet \u2013 is the cumulative impact of what we call progress,\" he said. \"And that's something that I think communities are going to have to start grappling with very quickly.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "Quebec", "Tar sands", "Indigenous peoples", "Americas", "World news", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Environment"], "title": "Maple leaf ragged: what ails Canada?"},{"date": "2012-09-07T21:29:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has closed its embassy in Tehran and ordered the expulsion of Iranian diplomats from Ottawa, partly because of the country's backing of the Syrian regime.Canada's foreign affairs minister, John Baird, cited Iran's support for Bashar al-Assad, its disputed nuclear programme and continued human rights violations as reasons behind his country's decision to sever diplomatic ties with Tehran. He said the Canadian government perceived Iran to be \"the most significant threat to global peace and security in the world today\". \"Canada has closed its embassy in Iran, effective immediately, and declared personae non gratae all remaining Iranian diplomats in Canada,\" Baird said.All Canadian diplomatic staff had left Iran and Iranian diplomats in Ottawa had five days to leave the country. Canada joins its main allies, the US and the UK, as countries without diplomatic presence in Tehran.\"The Iranian regime is providing increasing military assistance to the Assad regime; it refuses to comply with UN resolutions pertaining to its nuclear programme; it routinely threatens the existence of Israel and engages in racist anti-Semitic rhetoric and incitement to genocide,\" Baird said in the statement published on Canada's government website for foreign affairs and international trade.Ottawa's move comes only a week after Iran attempted to seize upon an international conference in Tehran to claim a diplomatic triumph in defiance of western-led efforts to isolate the regime. To the dismay of Iran, two of its main guests for Tehran's summit of the Non-Aligned Movement, the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, and Egypt's president, Mohamed Morsi, embarrassed the host by making speeches unwelcome by the regime. Morsi, in particular, stunned Iran, a staunch supporter of Assad, with a plea to the world to back Syrian rebels.Canada is an outspoken critic of Iran's human rights record and has actively pursued the effort to hold Tehran leaders accountable for their right's violations on international platforms in recent years, including through sanctions.Baird said: \"[Iran] is among the world's worst violators of human rights; and it shelters and materially supports terrorist groups, requiring the government of Canada to formally list Iran as a state sponsor of terrorism under the Justice for Victims of Terrorism Act. Moreover, the Iranian regime has shown blatant disregard for the Vienna convention and its guarantee of protection for diplomatic personnel. Under the circumstances, Canada can no longer maintain a diplomatic presence in Iran.Our diplomats serve Canada as civilians, and their safety is our number one priority.\"Baird appeared to be referring to an incident last November when protesters in the Iranian capital stormed the British embassy in Tehran, ransacking offices and diplomatic residence.Payam Akhavan, a professor of international law at McGill University in Montreal, said the recent row was the worst crisis in bilateral relations between Tehran and Ottawa for many years.\"I think the closure of Iranian embassy in Ottawa should be seen in the context of concerns by the Canadian government about the Islamic republic's recent activities in its Ottawa mission, including using it to establish wider presence in Canada through a series of ostensibly cultural activities, at universities and other institutes and infiltrating the Iranian diaspora and neutralising opposition to the regime,\" he said.According to latest official figures more than 400,000 Iranians live in Canada. \"There is an significant Iranian diaspora in Canada, we call Toronto, Tehranto, even many regime insiders live here but the majority consists of refugees or migrants,\" said Akhavan.The Canadian embassy in Ankara, Turkey, will provide services to Canadians living in Iran in the absence of Tehran's mission. The Canadian foreign ministry has also upgraded its Iran travel advice, urging all its citizens not to travel to Iran.\"Canadians who have Iranian nationality are warned in particular that the Iranian regime does not recognise the principle of dual nationality,\" it said. \"By doing so, Iran makes it virtually impossible for government of Canada officials to provide consular assistance to Iranian-Canadians in difficulty.\"The frosty relations between the two capitals became even more restrained in 2003 when an Iranian-Canadian photographer, Zahra Kazemi, died while in jail in Iran. Iran said she died of a stroke but Canada insisted she died under torture because of a skull fracture.A number of Iranian-Canadians are currently held behind bars in Iran, including Hamid Ghassemi-Shall who is facing execution after being convicted of espionage, a charge his family say is trumped-up.There was no immediate reaction from Iran in response to Canada's move but Iranian state news agencies reported Baird's statement.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Iran", "Middle East and North Africa", "Human rights", "Law", "Syria"], "title": "Canada cuts diplomatic ties with Iran"},{"date": "2012-09-02T21:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In an anniversary-obsessed year \u2013 with the Titanic centenary, the bicentenary of Dickens's birth (and Shakespeare's 448th), and the Queen's Diamond Jubilee \u2013 one such opportunity is largely conspicuous by its absence. Yet not everyone gets to burn down the White House after eating a fleeing president's dinner. There is even a helpful clue in the title: the War of 1812. It followed the US Congress's indignant declaration of war on 24 June against \u2013 yes \u2013 imperial Britain, a country grappling with a mad King George III, a murdered PM (Spencer Perceval) and a 20-year struggle with France.Strange that, apart from a couple of new histories, the 30-month conflict on land, sea and lake has had little attention in either country, though Canada pays more. Its existence as an independent country with an undefended 3,000-mile land border is one of several major consequences of a silly conflict that embarrassed both sides \u2013 and still does.Britain had its hands full fighting Napoleon in 1812, and (as in 1914-17) Americans were cross with the way both sides' embargoes disrupted their trade. But they were especially cross with maritime Britain for seizing British-born sailors to serve in the Royal Navy, and for supporting tribal warriors like Tecumseh in the frontier wars.Expansionist politicians from the south and west (\"war hawks\" as scornful critics put it) had their eye on French and Spanish colonies on the Mississippi and beyond. Taking British Canada would be \"a mere matter of marching\", ex-president Thomas Jefferson assured them. James Madison, the weak fourth president, didn't want war. Nor did merchants of New York and New England. But the Senate came within four votes (18-14) of declaring war on France too. Madness. A shambolic three-pronged US invasion of Canada was repelled, not least by loyalists who fled America in the war of independence. Parts of Maine were occupied.It was not all one-way. The infant US navy was a meritocracy, grossly outnumbered, but its ships better designed with bigger guns, its privateers harrying British shipping in the Irish Sea. Overall Nelson's navy prevailed, but its \"sacred spell of invincibility\" was shattered, the Brits admitted.Once Bonaparte had been dispatched (briefly) to exile in Elba, some 14,000 of Wellington's veterans (he declined to lead them) were dispatched to deal with what London saw as the treacherous stab in the back. Britain's own three-pronged attack on New York, Baltimore (where the defence of Fort McHenry inspired The Star-Spangled Banner) and Washington fared little better \u2013 though British troops did trash Congress and burn the White House in retaliation for the burning of Toronto.US peace feelers had been out almost from day one and bore fruit in Ghent on Christmas Eve 1814, after London modified its arrogant terms and accepted the pre-war status quo. It left awkward matters such as fishing and the 49th parallel (today's undefended border) to be quietly resolved later. Canada remained British, America marched west, the Indians were sold out.After all that US blood and treasure had been wasted, the war hawks might have been in trouble, but for a stroke of luck. Before news of the treaty crossed the Atlantic, General Andrew Jackson, a future president, thrashed the Brits (2,000 dead and wounded, three generals killed) in defence of New Orleans on January 8 1815. It was a fig-leaf, but a good one for emerging national self-confidence.The two sides never fought again, despite some hairy moments during the American civil war (there was a UK pro-slavery lobby) and (shipping issues again) in the first world war. The balance of economic and military power remorselessly swung America's way until, in the dark days of 1940-41, Britain embraced its own subordination.It is a tribute to the myth-making power of selective memory that, besides the odd uneasy joke by David Cameron, few in the Anglo-American family refer to the scandal of 1812 that almost led to divorce.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "UK news", "US news", "France", "Europe"], "title": "The war that Canada won | Michael White"},{"date": "2012-07-18T11:17:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The recent Rio+20 Conference taught us again a lesson that we should have learned by now: big governments working with large corporations are incapable of delivering what matters most \u2013 healthy children, safe food, air and water, community, fairness, happiness. If we are to master global poverty and climate change, then we must look beyond the institutions that have failed us and tap into Indigenous wisdom \u2013 to the insights and practices of people with 10,000-year track record of living sustainability.In other words, in a \"crowdsourcing\" era, it's time to tap into the wisdom of crowds \u2013 the kind that are ousting old dictators and choosing new leaders, many of them women and Indigenous people. It's time not for talking, but for building communities and economies. It's time for creating jobs and community-owned, clean-energy projects, even while restoring the role of culture and artists in the decision-making process.The problem \u2013 so clearly unresolved in Rio \u2013 is one of disconnection between crowds and their governments. \"Most governments are stuck in the 20th century ... top down, stable, predictable and all about execution,\" says Andrea Reimer, councillor, leader of the Green City Action Team in the West coast city of Vancouver.Cities, on the other hand, are closer to the people. They work well \"as a proving ground for resilience and innovation,\" Reimer says. That's why Vancouver borrows so freely from social innovators, people who she describes ad: \"nimble, innovative, creating the future we want, sharing power with the people ... tolerating risks, and supporting mobilized communities.\"British Columbia (BC) is complicated, there is an historic disconnect between government and people. In fully 80% of BC, one of Canada's larger provinces, there are no treaties with Indigenous Nations, no paperwork at all. This political mess is also an opportunity; map Indigenous populations globally and you will find the places with most biodiversity. Culture and nature dance; killing one, destroys the other.This is not peculiar to Canada. The UK also has rich ecosystems of such social innovation. For example, the Hebridean Isle of Eigg, has a diverse and effective leadership of women and men, young and old. No individual appears to claim ultimate authority over the Eigg story. On a recent visit, a crowd of 30 locals helped tell of a people who bought an island from a nasty landlord and built one of the world's cleanest community-owned energy systems. Crowds financed the buyout. Through networks and hard work, they raised \u00a31.5m from 10,000 people, and that was in the 1990's before crowd funding platforms existed.Eigg has many parallels to Canada's Indigenous communities, including that the Scots measure success by counting young people. Unlike most of the Highlands and Islands that have seen their youth decamp to the cities, Eigg is growing. Lucy Conway of the leaders in the community said that, \"Since the buyout, the island population has increased by 25% ... there is now a critical mass under 30 ... broadband allows them to scan the world and put the world of Eigg out there.\"Yet globally, indigenous people have been pummelled, first by colonisation and now globalisation \u2013 forces that transformed dignified subsistence to dependent impoverishment. Take the Xeni Gwet'in, a First Nations people who live in the unspoiled mountains only a few hundred kilometres north of Vancouver. Xeni Chief Marilyn Baptiste's ancestors have fought corporate and government invasions for hundreds of years and she leads a fight now against a gold mine that would harm a sacred and environmentally important Fish Lake. They are being offered payment, but Baptiste says: \"We don't want money, we want our land . . . We have never ceded rights or title to our land \u2026 we will not.\"Baptiste's people are unconquered, like the wild horses that still run on traditional Xeni territory. They survived being beaten for speaking their language, and still half the elders only speak their native T'silqotin. And now, while fighting Taseko Mine and its supporters \u2013 including the BC government \u2013 they are also pursuing their own, sustainable path, transitioning to 100% clean energy. It is here that crowds can help \u2013 that others can help protect one of the last places filled with Grizzly bears, eagles and wolves.Unlike the few, often damaging oil-and-gas sector investments in sustainable energy, success is usually far greater when communities co-develop clean energy, using the crowd's wisdom and resources and the artists' vision to support the engineers and the bankers.We all have ties to older worlds where art and culture were \"operating instructions.\" Our ancestors created stories, cave art, totem poles and standing stones to guide us. They told us not to take too much, to live in harmony with animals and plants, and to honour the abundance of the sun. When ancient art is acid etched on solar panels, when the community says we own our energy, the world heals.This is our moment; recent ancestors ended slavery and brought the vote to women. We can align ancient parts of us with the future; when elected people listen to elders and crowds.Donna Morton is chief executive of First Power \u2013 a B Corporation inspired by Paul Hawken's Blessed Unrest \u2013 that co-develops clean technology, jobs, economy with indigenous communities. She is an Ashoka, Unreasonable and Ogunte fellow, recently winner of the Women's Social Leadership Awards. You can listen to her TEDx talks here. She tweets @First_PowerThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the social enterprise network, click here", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Social enterprises", "Society", "Canada", "Small business", "Crowdsourcing", "Technology"], "title": "Crowdsourcing the future in Canada"},{"date": "2012-09-27T18:34:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Jonathan Kaiman depicts an increasingly ugly and intolerant Canada characterised by wanton environmental despoliation and paralysing political soul-searching (Maple leaf ragged: what ails Canada?, 15 September). I suspect this verdict would surprise the nine out of 10 Canadians who recently told pollsters that \"Canada is the greatest country in the world\".It would also confound the many observers who recognise Canada's global economic leadership, with the strongest fiscal position in the G8.I will confine myself to correcting Kaiman's slanders against the most open and generous immigration system in the developed world. He claims that we are \"tightening\" immigration. In fact, our government has increased immigration to the highest sustained level in Canadian history, and the highest per-capita level in the developed world. He writes that we have \"radically adjusted the criteria for successful applications\", when in fact we are making our system more flexible, allowing skilled tradesmen, semi-skilled workers and foreign students to become permanent residents for the first time. He claims that we \"cut resettlement programmes en masse\", when in fact we are increasing our refugee resettlement programmes by 20% and have tripled funding for their integration.Kaiman wrongly suggests that we have \"eliminated all but the most basic healthcare for most refugee groups\", when in fact we will continue to fund healthcare for most refugees \u2013 such as those resettled from UN camps \u2013 more generously than Canada's general health service. He bemoans a fictitious \"harsh crackdown on illegal immigrants\", suggesting that there is something untoward about seeking to remove citizenship from people who obtained it fraudulently and have never lived in Canada. Far from \"harsh\", those who contest our efforts have access to an extensive process of judicial reviews and appeals.Kaiman laments our refusal rate for citizenship when, in fact, our overall acceptance rate last year was 92%. We are also proud to have the highest naturalisation rate in the developed world, with 85% of permanent residents eventually becoming full citizens. Finally, Kaiman imagines that the number of immigrants to Canada from China and India has halved in the last six years, when in fact it has remained constant, with an annual average of 28,000 permanent residents from India, and an annual average of 30,000 permanent residents from China between 2006 and 2010 (the last full year of available data).Kaiman's imaginary 50% reduction in Asian immigration is the basis of his most outrageous claim, that \"the changes point to a deep-rooted, yet widely ignored undercurrent of racism in Canadian society\". While no society can claim to be entirely free of prejudice, Canada is the only major western democracy without a xenophobic or anti-immigration political movement, and consistently records the highest levels of public tolerance for ethnic, religious and cultural diversity in the developed world.Canada is frequently lauded as a model of peaceful pluralism. Our government's recent reforms have made Canada more open to legitimate immigrants but harder on those seeking to abuse our generosity. It is a pity that\u00a0Kaiman has aligned himself with the radical fringe of racial grievance-mongers in mistaking the rule of law \u2013 the backbone of a free and open society \u2013 for discrimination. ", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Race issues"], "title": "Canada has not become ugly and intolerant | Jason Kenney"},{"date": "2012-09-14T13:00:13Z", "country": "canada", "content": "There's trouble brewing in Canada.It's difficult to perceive on first glance. In Toronto, the air is clean, crime rates are low and healthcare is universal. Yet an undercurrent of anxiety courses through the country's public discourse and its media; it dominates conversations in coffee shops and university hallways. A volley of recent polarising political developments has led many Canadians to ask whether their country's reputation as a tolerant, environmentally conscious international peacemaker is suddenly in doubt.A harsh crackdown on illegal immigrants has belied the notion of a country open to incomers. Quebec has elected a separatist provincial government, triggering political violence. The extraction of oil from the vast tar sands of Alberta has proven hugely controversial, as has the marginalisation of the country's First Nations indigenous people. In foreign policy, Canada is increasingly toeing the US line, most recently cutting diplomatic ties with Iran. And its Afghanistan deployment has been tainted by allegations of complicity in the torture of detainees.Some, though not all, of this tendency has been blamed on the country's conservative leadership, which gained a parliamentary majority in May last year. The prime minister, Stephen Harper, has tightened immigration policy, struck a hard line in the Middle East and adjusted environmental policy to encourage controversial oil extraction programmes in the country's vast northern hinterlands.\"Everybody knew that Harper would have a different agenda from that of the Liberals,\" said Herb Grubel, a professor emeritus at Simon Fraser University and former member of parliament. \"What he has been doing is putting into effect some of these ideas.\"Canada is one of the few countries in the world that still looks to immigration as a tool for nation-building \u2013 20% of Canadians were born abroad, and new immigrants add 0.8% to the country's population each year. Multiculturalism has been a formal policy since 1971; it's taught in the country's elementary schools.Yet over the past year immigration authorities have radically adjusted the criteria for successful applications and cut resettlement programmes en masse. In June, Ottawa provoked a firestorm of controversy \u2013 and sparked a spate of doctors' protests \u2013 when it eliminated all but the most basic healthcare for certain refugee groups. Last week, immigration minister Jason Kenney announced that 3,100 people would have their Canadian citizenship revoked for hiring immigration consultants to falsify their documents. Eleven thousand aspiring citizens are still under investigation.\"There's a lot that we need to fix pronto, otherwise the message goes out to the world that we're not a welcoming place,\" said Ratna Omidvar, president of Toronto-based immigration foundation Maytree.Since 2006, the refusal rate for Canadian citizenship applications has doubled; the number of immigrants from Asian countries such as China and India has halved.Some analysts say the changes point to a deep-rooted, yet widely ignored undercurrent of racism in Canadian society. In late August, news leaked that the Bank of Canada had removed an east Asian-looking woman from preliminary designs of its new $100 bill, replacing her with a caucasian. Chinese groups were outraged, causing the bank to issue a public apology.\"Fighting racism in the States is like punching a brick wall, but fighting it in Canada is like punching a marshmallow \u2013 it always melds back to the same shape,\" said Minelle Mahtani, a professor at University of Toronto Scarborough. \"We live in an ostrich-head-in-the-sand-like denial that racism exists in this country, and yet systemic discrimination is the norm.\"Intolerance is also rife in francophone Quebec, which elected the separatist Parti Quebecois leader Pauline Marois as premier on 4 September. Marois's ascent to power has been shadowed by violence: a man shot two people at the Montreal convention centre where her party was celebrating its victory, killing one and leaving the other in a critical condition. \"The English are waking up!\" the man shouted in French during his arrest, eliciting widespread soul-searching about the depth of the province's linguistic divide.Quebec was already reeling from a spring full of huge student-led street demonstrations. The movement, often referred to as the \"maple spring\", began as a smattering of peaceful protests against tuition fee hikes. But when the then incumbent Liberal administration passed an emergency law to crack down on demonstrators, simmering discontent exploded into full-blown dissent. At the height of the movement, almost 1,000 protesters were arrested in a 400,000-strong Montreal march, some of them as young as 15.Analysts say that Marois is unlikely to hold a referendum on independence \u2013 she is fighting from a minority position and popular support for secession has waned since Quebec's last referendum in 1995.Yet she has invited controversy by proposing measures that would restrict freedom of language and religion in the province. Her promise to strengthen Quebec's French language charter would restrict access for some groups to English junior colleges. Her \"secularism policy\" would ban religious symbols such as headscarves, skullcaps and hijabs in public offices. Yet it would allow crucifixes, which, according to Marois, symbolise traditional Quebec culture.\"There is still a large group of ethnic nationalists who believe that Quebec should be for the pure-wool francophones who founded this province,\" said Bruce Hicks, a professor of political science at Concordia University in Montreal. \"Pauline Marois, out of deference to this more extremist group in her party, sort of pandered to that.\"Almost 4,000km away from Montreal, the vast plains of northern Alberta province lie at the heart of another national debate. The region contains 140,000 sq km of \"tar sands\" \u2013 a mixture of sand, water and clay the texture of cold molasses \u2013 which contain copious amounts of highly viscous petroleum. Over the past decade, technological developments and soaring oil prices have made its extraction economically viable, making it a prime destination for major international oil companies.Critics say that Harper's environmental policy favours these companies over the long-term wellbeing of Canada's natural environment. Last month, Ottawa cancelled almost 3,000 environmental reviews on proposed development projects across the country, many of which involved tar sands oil extraction.The Canadian government has approved a 730-mile pipeline from the Alberta tar sands to the shores of British Columbia, where it will be loaded on to oil tankers and shipped to Asian markets. Environmental groups have launched a united stand against the project, claiming that Enbridge \u2013 the Calgary-based company at its head \u2013 has been dishonest about the risk of potential oil spills. In 2010, an Enbridge pipe burst in northern Michigan, leaving a still-visible oily sheen on the area's rivers.\"Canada has always been a natural resource extraction country \u2013 it's logging, it's hydro-power, it's mining, it's oil and gas,\" said Susan Casey-Lefkowitz, international director at the Natural Resources and Defence Council. \"But the tar sands is such a big resource, and it drew such major players, that it's really reshaped the way the government has dealt with environmental issues.\"Tar sands oil extraction has also underscored an already fraught relationship between the federal government and Canada's nearly 700,000 indigenous people, called First Nations. For decades, resource extraction on First Nations land and chronically underfunded schools have left many of these communities mired in poverty, alcoholism and disease.Gerald Amos, former chief of the Haisla Nation in coastal British Columbia, said that while his community used to survive by catching oolichan fish \u2013 a type of smelt \u2013 in the nearby Kitamaat river, this traditional way of life is long gone. Toxic dumping has destroyed the river, driving the fish to the brink of extinction. Amos fears that the Enbridge project will consume what's left of the wilderness near his home, where the pipeline will meet the coast.\"I think that the big issue for a lot of communities \u2013 one that really hasn't been grappled with yet \u2013 is the cumulative impact of what we call progress,\" he said. \"And that's something that I think communities are going to have to start grappling with very quickly.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "Quebec", "Tar sands", "Indigenous peoples", "Americas", "World news", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Environment"], "title": "Maple leaf ragged: what ails Canada?"},{"date": "2012-09-07T21:29:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has closed its embassy in Tehran and ordered the expulsion of Iranian diplomats from Ottawa, partly because of the country's backing of the Syrian regime.Canada's foreign affairs minister, John Baird, cited Iran's support for Bashar al-Assad, its disputed nuclear programme and continued human rights violations as reasons behind his country's decision to sever diplomatic ties with Tehran. He said the Canadian government perceived Iran to be \"the most significant threat to global peace and security in the world today\". \"Canada has closed its embassy in Iran, effective immediately, and declared personae non gratae all remaining Iranian diplomats in Canada,\" Baird said.All Canadian diplomatic staff had left Iran and Iranian diplomats in Ottawa had five days to leave the country. Canada joins its main allies, the US and the UK, as countries without diplomatic presence in Tehran.\"The Iranian regime is providing increasing military assistance to the Assad regime; it refuses to comply with UN resolutions pertaining to its nuclear programme; it routinely threatens the existence of Israel and engages in racist anti-Semitic rhetoric and incitement to genocide,\" Baird said in the statement published on Canada's government website for foreign affairs and international trade.Ottawa's move comes only a week after Iran attempted to seize upon an international conference in Tehran to claim a diplomatic triumph in defiance of western-led efforts to isolate the regime. To the dismay of Iran, two of its main guests for Tehran's summit of the Non-Aligned Movement, the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, and Egypt's president, Mohamed Morsi, embarrassed the host by making speeches unwelcome by the regime. Morsi, in particular, stunned Iran, a staunch supporter of Assad, with a plea to the world to back Syrian rebels.Canada is an outspoken critic of Iran's human rights record and has actively pursued the effort to hold Tehran leaders accountable for their right's violations on international platforms in recent years, including through sanctions.Baird said: \"[Iran] is among the world's worst violators of human rights; and it shelters and materially supports terrorist groups, requiring the government of Canada to formally list Iran as a state sponsor of terrorism under the Justice for Victims of Terrorism Act. Moreover, the Iranian regime has shown blatant disregard for the Vienna convention and its guarantee of protection for diplomatic personnel. Under the circumstances, Canada can no longer maintain a diplomatic presence in Iran.Our diplomats serve Canada as civilians, and their safety is our number one priority.\"Baird appeared to be referring to an incident last November when protesters in the Iranian capital stormed the British embassy in Tehran, ransacking offices and diplomatic residence.Payam Akhavan, a professor of international law at McGill University in Montreal, said the recent row was the worst crisis in bilateral relations between Tehran and Ottawa for many years.\"I think the closure of Iranian embassy in Ottawa should be seen in the context of concerns by the Canadian government about the Islamic republic's recent activities in its Ottawa mission, including using it to establish wider presence in Canada through a series of ostensibly cultural activities, at universities and other institutes and infiltrating the Iranian diaspora and neutralising opposition to the regime,\" he said.According to latest official figures more than 400,000 Iranians live in Canada. \"There is an significant Iranian diaspora in Canada, we call Toronto, Tehranto, even many regime insiders live here but the majority consists of refugees or migrants,\" said Akhavan.The Canadian embassy in Ankara, Turkey, will provide services to Canadians living in Iran in the absence of Tehran's mission. The Canadian foreign ministry has also upgraded its Iran travel advice, urging all its citizens not to travel to Iran.\"Canadians who have Iranian nationality are warned in particular that the Iranian regime does not recognise the principle of dual nationality,\" it said. \"By doing so, Iran makes it virtually impossible for government of Canada officials to provide consular assistance to Iranian-Canadians in difficulty.\"The frosty relations between the two capitals became even more restrained in 2003 when an Iranian-Canadian photographer, Zahra Kazemi, died while in jail in Iran. Iran said she died of a stroke but Canada insisted she died under torture because of a skull fracture.A number of Iranian-Canadians are currently held behind bars in Iran, including Hamid Ghassemi-Shall who is facing execution after being convicted of espionage, a charge his family say is trumped-up.There was no immediate reaction from Iran in response to Canada's move but Iranian state news agencies reported Baird's statement.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Iran", "Middle East and North Africa", "Human rights", "Law", "Syria"], "title": "Canada cuts diplomatic ties with Iran"},{"date": "2012-09-24T18:29:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Britain is to share diplomatic missions with \"first cousins\" Canada under plans that the Foreign Office hopes will cut costs but which critics in Ottawa claim could reduce their country's independence abroad.In an agreement unveiled on Monday evening in the Canadian capital by the foreign secretary, William Hague, and his Canadian counterpart, John Baird, the two countries will start \"co-locating\" embassies and sharing consular services in countries where either lacks official representation.Asked whether Britain could eventually adopt the same arrangement with Australia and New Zealand as well, the Foreign Office said that while the initiative was \"at an early stage\", discussions had also been held with both countries about the potential for greater co-operation in overseas missions.Before the meeting in Ottawa, Hague said: \"As the prime minister [David Cameron] said when addressing the Canadian parliament last year: 'We are two nations, but under one Queen and united by one set of values.' We have stood shoulder to shoulder [in situations from] the great wars of the last century to fighting terrorists in Afghanistan and supporting 'Arab spring' nations, like Libya and Syria.\"We are first cousins. So it is natural that we look to link up our embassies with Canada's in places where that suits both countries. It will give us a bigger reach abroad for our businesses and people for less cost.\"Diplomatic co-location is not unprecedented: a British diplomat already uses space in the Canadian embassy in Mali, while in Burma a Canadian diplomat is temporarily housed in the British embassy as Ottawa establishes a more permanent presence. The UK also shares several premises with France and Germany.It is understood that the agreement with Canada could allow for enhanced co-operation, for instance in the sharing of administration costs. The Foreign Office said: \"This declaration sets out a number of areas for further co-operation, including co-location, crisis response, security and consular co-operation.\"The coalition government sees the move as a means of reducing costs in some countries while shifting the focus to parts of the world deemed increasingly politically and economically important.Even as it grapples with spending cuts, the Foreign Office is expanding in countries including India, China, Brazil, Turkey and Kyrgyzstan, and has recently appointed a Nairobi-based ambassador to Somalia.In Canada, however, the initiative has drawn criticism. The Globe and Mail in Toronto asked whether the resource-sharing could prove \"a return to [the] colonial past\". It quoted Paul Heinbecker, a former Canadian ambassador to Germany and the country's permanent representative to the UN, as saying: \"We have an incompatible brand with the UK.\"Heinbecker, who referred to past disagreements over issues including Bosnia and apartheid-era South Africa, is also said to have raised concerns over a potential for greater security risks to Canadian diplomats, particularly in the Middle East. \"The idea that we have a sufficient amount in common with the British that it makes sense that we share premises as a matter of routine \u2026 I think, is a mistake,\" he said.The move also led the opposition New Democratic party to question whether Canada's independence on the international stage would be compromised. Stephen Harper, Canada's conservative prime minister, is a passionate anglophile.Referring to reports that Tory Eurosceptics would welcome the development to counter the expansion of the EU's diplomatic corps, the External Action Service, Paul Dewar, an NDP MP, said: \"If the UK is wanting to strengthen its resolve against the EU, we shouldn't be pawns in their game.\"Speaking to the Toronto Sun, he added: \"This is about who represents Canada and our interests. Who's going to represent Canada when competing issues, such as trade, or issues we strongly disagree on, such as fighting in Iraq, come up?\"", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "UK to share embassy premises with 'first cousins' Canada"},{"date": "2012-09-02T21:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In an anniversary-obsessed year \u2013 with the Titanic centenary, the bicentenary of Dickens's birth (and Shakespeare's 448th), and the Queen's Diamond Jubilee \u2013 one such opportunity is largely conspicuous by its absence. Yet not everyone gets to burn down the White House after eating a fleeing president's dinner. There is even a helpful clue in the title: the War of 1812. It followed the US Congress's indignant declaration of war on 24 June against \u2013 yes \u2013 imperial Britain, a country grappling with a mad King George III, a murdered PM (Spencer Perceval) and a 20-year struggle with France.Strange that, apart from a couple of new histories, the 30-month conflict on land, sea and lake has had little attention in either country, though Canada pays more. Its existence as an independent country with an undefended 3,000-mile land border is one of several major consequences of a silly conflict that embarrassed both sides \u2013 and still does.Britain had its hands full fighting Napoleon in 1812, and (as in 1914-17) Americans were cross with the way both sides' embargoes disrupted their trade. But they were especially cross with maritime Britain for seizing British-born sailors to serve in the Royal Navy, and for supporting tribal warriors like Tecumseh in the frontier wars.Expansionist politicians from the south and west (\"war hawks\" as scornful critics put it) had their eye on French and Spanish colonies on the Mississippi and beyond. Taking British Canada would be \"a mere matter of marching\", ex-president Thomas Jefferson assured them. James Madison, the weak fourth president, didn't want war. Nor did merchants of New York and New England. But the Senate came within four votes (18-14) of declaring war on France too. Madness. A shambolic three-pronged US invasion of Canada was repelled, not least by loyalists who fled America in the war of independence. Parts of Maine were occupied.It was not all one-way. The infant US navy was a meritocracy, grossly outnumbered, but its ships better designed with bigger guns, its privateers harrying British shipping in the Irish Sea. Overall Nelson's navy prevailed, but its \"sacred spell of invincibility\" was shattered, the Brits admitted.Once Bonaparte had been dispatched (briefly) to exile in Elba, some 14,000 of Wellington's veterans (he declined to lead them) were dispatched to deal with what London saw as the treacherous stab in the back. Britain's own three-pronged attack on New York, Baltimore (where the defence of Fort McHenry inspired The Star-Spangled Banner) and Washington fared little better \u2013 though British troops did trash Congress and burn the White House in retaliation for the burning of Toronto.US peace feelers had been out almost from day one and bore fruit in Ghent on Christmas Eve 1814, after London modified its arrogant terms and accepted the pre-war status quo. It left awkward matters such as fishing and the 49th parallel (today's undefended border) to be quietly resolved later. Canada remained British, America marched west, the Indians were sold out.After all that US blood and treasure had been wasted, the war hawks might have been in trouble, but for a stroke of luck. Before news of the treaty crossed the Atlantic, General Andrew Jackson, a future president, thrashed the Brits (2,000 dead and wounded, three generals killed) in defence of New Orleans on January 8 1815. It was a fig-leaf, but a good one for emerging national self-confidence.The two sides never fought again, despite some hairy moments during the American civil war (there was a UK pro-slavery lobby) and (shipping issues again) in the first world war. The balance of economic and military power remorselessly swung America's way until, in the dark days of 1940-41, Britain embraced its own subordination.It is a tribute to the myth-making power of selective memory that, besides the odd uneasy joke by David Cameron, few in the Anglo-American family refer to the scandal of 1812 that almost led to divorce.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "UK news", "US news", "France", "Europe"], "title": "The war that Canada won | Michael White"},{"date": "2012-07-18T11:17:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The recent Rio+20 Conference taught us again a lesson that we should have learned by now: big governments working with large corporations are incapable of delivering what matters most \u2013 healthy children, safe food, air and water, community, fairness, happiness. If we are to master global poverty and climate change, then we must look beyond the institutions that have failed us and tap into Indigenous wisdom \u2013 to the insights and practices of people with 10,000-year track record of living sustainability.In other words, in a \"crowdsourcing\" era, it's time to tap into the wisdom of crowds \u2013 the kind that are ousting old dictators and choosing new leaders, many of them women and Indigenous people. It's time not for talking, but for building communities and economies. It's time for creating jobs and community-owned, clean-energy projects, even while restoring the role of culture and artists in the decision-making process.The problem \u2013 so clearly unresolved in Rio \u2013 is one of disconnection between crowds and their governments. \"Most governments are stuck in the 20th century ... top down, stable, predictable and all about execution,\" says Andrea Reimer, councillor, leader of the Green City Action Team in the West coast city of Vancouver.Cities, on the other hand, are closer to the people. They work well \"as a proving ground for resilience and innovation,\" Reimer says. That's why Vancouver borrows so freely from social innovators, people who she describes ad: \"nimble, innovative, creating the future we want, sharing power with the people ... tolerating risks, and supporting mobilized communities.\"British Columbia (BC) is complicated, there is an historic disconnect between government and people. In fully 80% of BC, one of Canada's larger provinces, there are no treaties with Indigenous Nations, no paperwork at all. This political mess is also an opportunity; map Indigenous populations globally and you will find the places with most biodiversity. Culture and nature dance; killing one, destroys the other.This is not peculiar to Canada. The UK also has rich ecosystems of such social innovation. For example, the Hebridean Isle of Eigg, has a diverse and effective leadership of women and men, young and old. No individual appears to claim ultimate authority over the Eigg story. On a recent visit, a crowd of 30 locals helped tell of a people who bought an island from a nasty landlord and built one of the world's cleanest community-owned energy systems. Crowds financed the buyout. Through networks and hard work, they raised \u00a31.5m from 10,000 people, and that was in the 1990's before crowd funding platforms existed.Eigg has many parallels to Canada's Indigenous communities, including that the Scots measure success by counting young people. Unlike most of the Highlands and Islands that have seen their youth decamp to the cities, Eigg is growing. Lucy Conway of the leaders in the community said that, \"Since the buyout, the island population has increased by 25% ... there is now a critical mass under 30 ... broadband allows them to scan the world and put the world of Eigg out there.\"Yet globally, indigenous people have been pummelled, first by colonisation and now globalisation \u2013 forces that transformed dignified subsistence to dependent impoverishment. Take the Xeni Gwet'in, a First Nations people who live in the unspoiled mountains only a few hundred kilometres north of Vancouver. Xeni Chief Marilyn Baptiste's ancestors have fought corporate and government invasions for hundreds of years and she leads a fight now against a gold mine that would harm a sacred and environmentally important Fish Lake. They are being offered payment, but Baptiste says: \"We don't want money, we want our land . . . We have never ceded rights or title to our land \u2026 we will not.\"Baptiste's people are unconquered, like the wild horses that still run on traditional Xeni territory. They survived being beaten for speaking their language, and still half the elders only speak their native T'silqotin. And now, while fighting Taseko Mine and its supporters \u2013 including the BC government \u2013 they are also pursuing their own, sustainable path, transitioning to 100% clean energy. It is here that crowds can help \u2013 that others can help protect one of the last places filled with Grizzly bears, eagles and wolves.Unlike the few, often damaging oil-and-gas sector investments in sustainable energy, success is usually far greater when communities co-develop clean energy, using the crowd's wisdom and resources and the artists' vision to support the engineers and the bankers.We all have ties to older worlds where art and culture were \"operating instructions.\" Our ancestors created stories, cave art, totem poles and standing stones to guide us. They told us not to take too much, to live in harmony with animals and plants, and to honour the abundance of the sun. When ancient art is acid etched on solar panels, when the community says we own our energy, the world heals.This is our moment; recent ancestors ended slavery and brought the vote to women. We can align ancient parts of us with the future; when elected people listen to elders and crowds.Donna Morton is chief executive of First Power \u2013 a B Corporation inspired by Paul Hawken's Blessed Unrest \u2013 that co-develops clean technology, jobs, economy with indigenous communities. She is an Ashoka, Unreasonable and Ogunte fellow, recently winner of the Women's Social Leadership Awards. You can listen to her TEDx talks here. She tweets @First_PowerThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the social enterprise network, click here", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Social enterprises", "Society", "Canada", "Small business", "Crowdsourcing", "Technology"], "title": "Crowdsourcing the future in Canada"},{"date": "2012-09-27T18:34:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Jonathan Kaiman depicts an increasingly ugly and intolerant Canada characterised by wanton environmental despoliation and paralysing political soul-searching (Maple leaf ragged: what ails Canada?, 15 September). I suspect this verdict would surprise the nine out of 10 Canadians who recently told pollsters that \"Canada is the greatest country in the world\".It would also confound the many observers who recognise Canada's global economic leadership, with the strongest fiscal position in the G8.I will confine myself to correcting Kaiman's slanders against the most open and generous immigration system in the developed world. He claims that we are \"tightening\" immigration. In fact, our government has increased immigration to the highest sustained level in Canadian history, and the highest per-capita level in the developed world. He writes that we have \"radically adjusted the criteria for successful applications\", when in fact we are making our system more flexible, allowing skilled tradesmen, semi-skilled workers and foreign students to become permanent residents for the first time. He claims that we \"cut resettlement programmes en masse\", when in fact we are increasing our refugee resettlement programmes by 20% and have tripled funding for their integration.Kaiman wrongly suggests that we have \"eliminated all but the most basic healthcare for most refugee groups\", when in fact we will continue to fund healthcare for most refugees \u2013 such as those resettled from UN camps \u2013 more generously than Canada's general health service. He bemoans a fictitious \"harsh crackdown on illegal immigrants\", suggesting that there is something untoward about seeking to remove citizenship from people who obtained it fraudulently and have never lived in Canada. Far from \"harsh\", those who contest our efforts have access to an extensive process of judicial reviews and appeals.Kaiman laments our refusal rate for citizenship when, in fact, our overall acceptance rate last year was 92%. We are also proud to have the highest naturalisation rate in the developed world, with 85% of permanent residents eventually becoming full citizens. Finally, Kaiman imagines that the number of immigrants to Canada from China and India has halved in the last six years, when in fact it has remained constant, with an annual average of 28,000 permanent residents from India, and an annual average of 30,000 permanent residents from China between 2006 and 2010 (the last full year of available data).Kaiman's imaginary 50% reduction in Asian immigration is the basis of his most outrageous claim, that \"the changes point to a deep-rooted, yet widely ignored undercurrent of racism in Canadian society\". While no society can claim to be entirely free of prejudice, Canada is the only major western democracy without a xenophobic or anti-immigration political movement, and consistently records the highest levels of public tolerance for ethnic, religious and cultural diversity in the developed world.Canada is frequently lauded as a model of peaceful pluralism. Our government's recent reforms have made Canada more open to legitimate immigrants but harder on those seeking to abuse our generosity. It is a pity that\u00a0Kaiman has aligned himself with the radical fringe of racial grievance-mongers in mistaking the rule of law \u2013 the backbone of a free and open society \u2013 for discrimination. ", "tags": ["Canada", "World news", "Race issues"], "title": "Canada has not become ugly and intolerant | Jason Kenney"},{"date": "2012-09-14T13:00:13Z", "country": "canada", "content": "There's trouble brewing in Canada.It's difficult to perceive on first glance. In Toronto, the air is clean, crime rates are low and healthcare is universal. Yet an undercurrent of anxiety courses through the country's public discourse and its media; it dominates conversations in coffee shops and university hallways. A volley of recent polarising political developments has led many Canadians to ask whether their country's reputation as a tolerant, environmentally conscious international peacemaker is suddenly in doubt.A harsh crackdown on illegal immigrants has belied the notion of a country open to incomers. Quebec has elected a separatist provincial government, triggering political violence. The extraction of oil from the vast tar sands of Alberta has proven hugely controversial, as has the marginalisation of the country's First Nations indigenous people. In foreign policy, Canada is increasingly toeing the US line, most recently cutting diplomatic ties with Iran. And its Afghanistan deployment has been tainted by allegations of complicity in the torture of detainees.Some, though not all, of this tendency has been blamed on the country's conservative leadership, which gained a parliamentary majority in May last year. The prime minister, Stephen Harper, has tightened immigration policy, struck a hard line in the Middle East and adjusted environmental policy to encourage controversial oil extraction programmes in the country's vast northern hinterlands.\"Everybody knew that Harper would have a different agenda from that of the Liberals,\" said Herb Grubel, a professor emeritus at Simon Fraser University and former member of parliament. \"What he has been doing is putting into effect some of these ideas.\"Canada is one of the few countries in the world that still looks to immigration as a tool for nation-building \u2013 20% of Canadians were born abroad, and new immigrants add 0.8% to the country's population each year. Multiculturalism has been a formal policy since 1971; it's taught in the country's elementary schools.Yet over the past year immigration authorities have radically adjusted the criteria for successful applications and cut resettlement programmes en masse. In June, Ottawa provoked a firestorm of controversy \u2013 and sparked a spate of doctors' protests \u2013 when it eliminated all but the most basic healthcare for certain refugee groups. Last week, immigration minister Jason Kenney announced that 3,100 people would have their Canadian citizenship revoked for hiring immigration consultants to falsify their documents. Eleven thousand aspiring citizens are still under investigation.\"There's a lot that we need to fix pronto, otherwise the message goes out to the world that we're not a welcoming place,\" said Ratna Omidvar, president of Toronto-based immigration foundation Maytree.Since 2006, the refusal rate for Canadian citizenship applications has doubled; the number of immigrants from Asian countries such as China and India has halved.Some analysts say the changes point to a deep-rooted, yet widely ignored undercurrent of racism in Canadian society. In late August, news leaked that the Bank of Canada had removed an east Asian-looking woman from preliminary designs of its new $100 bill, replacing her with a caucasian. Chinese groups were outraged, causing the bank to issue a public apology.\"Fighting racism in the States is like punching a brick wall, but fighting it in Canada is like punching a marshmallow \u2013 it always melds back to the same shape,\" said Minelle Mahtani, a professor at University of Toronto Scarborough. \"We live in an ostrich-head-in-the-sand-like denial that racism exists in this country, and yet systemic discrimination is the norm.\"Intolerance is also rife in francophone Quebec, which elected the separatist Parti Quebecois leader Pauline Marois as premier on 4 September. Marois's ascent to power has been shadowed by violence: a man shot two people at the Montreal convention centre where her party was celebrating its victory, killing one and leaving the other in a critical condition. \"The English are waking up!\" the man shouted in French during his arrest, eliciting widespread soul-searching about the depth of the province's linguistic divide.Quebec was already reeling from a spring full of huge student-led street demonstrations. The movement, often referred to as the \"maple spring\", began as a smattering of peaceful protests against tuition fee hikes. But when the then incumbent Liberal administration passed an emergency law to crack down on demonstrators, simmering discontent exploded into full-blown dissent. At the height of the movement, almost 1,000 protesters were arrested in a 400,000-strong Montreal march, some of them as young as 15.Analysts say that Marois is unlikely to hold a referendum on independence \u2013 she is fighting from a minority position and popular support for secession has waned since Quebec's last referendum in 1995.Yet she has invited controversy by proposing measures that would restrict freedom of language and religion in the province. Her promise to strengthen Quebec's French language charter would restrict access for some groups to English junior colleges. Her \"secularism policy\" would ban religious symbols such as headscarves, skullcaps and hijabs in public offices. Yet it would allow crucifixes, which, according to Marois, symbolise traditional Quebec culture.\"There is still a large group of ethnic nationalists who believe that Quebec should be for the pure-wool francophones who founded this province,\" said Bruce Hicks, a professor of political science at Concordia University in Montreal. \"Pauline Marois, out of deference to this more extremist group in her party, sort of pandered to that.\"Almost 4,000km away from Montreal, the vast plains of northern Alberta province lie at the heart of another national debate. The region contains 140,000 sq km of \"tar sands\" \u2013 a mixture of sand, water and clay the texture of cold molasses \u2013 which contain copious amounts of highly viscous petroleum. Over the past decade, technological developments and soaring oil prices have made its extraction economically viable, making it a prime destination for major international oil companies.Critics say that Harper's environmental policy favours these companies over the long-term wellbeing of Canada's natural environment. Last month, Ottawa cancelled almost 3,000 environmental reviews on proposed development projects across the country, many of which involved tar sands oil extraction.The Canadian government has approved a 730-mile pipeline from the Alberta tar sands to the shores of British Columbia, where it will be loaded on to oil tankers and shipped to Asian markets. Environmental groups have launched a united stand against the project, claiming that Enbridge \u2013 the Calgary-based company at its head \u2013 has been dishonest about the risk of potential oil spills. In 2010, an Enbridge pipe burst in northern Michigan, leaving a still-visible oily sheen on the area's rivers.\"Canada has always been a natural resource extraction country \u2013 it's logging, it's hydro-power, it's mining, it's oil and gas,\" said Susan Casey-Lefkowitz, international director at the Natural Resources and Defence Council. \"But the tar sands is such a big resource, and it drew such major players, that it's really reshaped the way the government has dealt with environmental issues.\"Tar sands oil extraction has also underscored an already fraught relationship between the federal government and Canada's nearly 700,000 indigenous people, called First Nations. For decades, resource extraction on First Nations land and chronically underfunded schools have left many of these communities mired in poverty, alcoholism and disease.Gerald Amos, former chief of the Haisla Nation in coastal British Columbia, said that while his community used to survive by catching oolichan fish \u2013 a type of smelt \u2013 in the nearby Kitamaat river, this traditional way of life is long gone. Toxic dumping has destroyed the river, driving the fish to the brink of extinction. Amos fears that the Enbridge project will consume what's left of the wilderness near his home, where the pipeline will meet the coast.\"I think that the big issue for a lot of communities \u2013 one that really hasn't been grappled with yet \u2013 is the cumulative impact of what we call progress,\" he said. \"And that's something that I think communities are going to have to start grappling with very quickly.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "Quebec", "Tar sands", "Indigenous peoples", "Americas", "World news", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Environment"], "title": "Maple leaf ragged: what ails Canada?"},{"date": "2012-09-07T21:29:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has closed its embassy in Tehran and ordered the expulsion of Iranian diplomats from Ottawa, partly because of the country's backing of the Syrian regime.Canada's foreign affairs minister, John Baird, cited Iran's support for Bashar al-Assad, its disputed nuclear programme and continued human rights violations as reasons behind his country's decision to sever diplomatic ties with Tehran. He said the Canadian government perceived Iran to be \"the most significant threat to global peace and security in the world today\". \"Canada has closed its embassy in Iran, effective immediately, and declared personae non gratae all remaining Iranian diplomats in Canada,\" Baird said.All Canadian diplomatic staff had left Iran and Iranian diplomats in Ottawa had five days to leave the country. Canada joins its main allies, the US and the UK, as countries without diplomatic presence in Tehran.\"The Iranian regime is providing increasing military assistance to the Assad regime; it refuses to comply with UN resolutions pertaining to its nuclear programme; it routinely threatens the existence of Israel and engages in racist anti-Semitic rhetoric and incitement to genocide,\" Baird said in the statement published on Canada's government website for foreign affairs and international trade.Ottawa's move comes only a week after Iran attempted to seize upon an international conference in Tehran to claim a diplomatic triumph in defiance of western-led efforts to isolate the regime. To the dismay of Iran, two of its main guests for Tehran's summit of the Non-Aligned Movement, the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, and Egypt's president, Mohamed Morsi, embarrassed the host by making speeches unwelcome by the regime. Morsi, in particular, stunned Iran, a staunch supporter of Assad, with a plea to the world to back Syrian rebels.Canada is an outspoken critic of Iran's human rights record and has actively pursued the effort to hold Tehran leaders accountable for their right's violations on international platforms in recent years, including through sanctions.Baird said: \"[Iran] is among the world's worst violators of human rights; and it shelters and materially supports terrorist groups, requiring the government of Canada to formally list Iran as a state sponsor of terrorism under the Justice for Victims of Terrorism Act. Moreover, the Iranian regime has shown blatant disregard for the Vienna convention and its guarantee of protection for diplomatic personnel. Under the circumstances, Canada can no longer maintain a diplomatic presence in Iran.Our diplomats serve Canada as civilians, and their safety is our number one priority.\"Baird appeared to be referring to an incident last November when protesters in the Iranian capital stormed the British embassy in Tehran, ransacking offices and diplomatic residence.Payam Akhavan, a professor of international law at McGill University in Montreal, said the recent row was the worst crisis in bilateral relations between Tehran and Ottawa for many years.\"I think the closure of Iranian embassy in Ottawa should be seen in the context of concerns by the Canadian government about the Islamic republic's recent activities in its Ottawa mission, including using it to establish wider presence in Canada through a series of ostensibly cultural activities, at universities and other institutes and infiltrating the Iranian diaspora and neutralising opposition to the regime,\" he said.According to latest official figures more than 400,000 Iranians live in Canada. \"There is an significant Iranian diaspora in Canada, we call Toronto, Tehranto, even many regime insiders live here but the majority consists of refugees or migrants,\" said Akhavan.The Canadian embassy in Ankara, Turkey, will provide services to Canadians living in Iran in the absence of Tehran's mission. The Canadian foreign ministry has also upgraded its Iran travel advice, urging all its citizens not to travel to Iran.\"Canadians who have Iranian nationality are warned in particular that the Iranian regime does not recognise the principle of dual nationality,\" it said. \"By doing so, Iran makes it virtually impossible for government of Canada officials to provide consular assistance to Iranian-Canadians in difficulty.\"The frosty relations between the two capitals became even more restrained in 2003 when an Iranian-Canadian photographer, Zahra Kazemi, died while in jail in Iran. Iran said she died of a stroke but Canada insisted she died under torture because of a skull fracture.A number of Iranian-Canadians are currently held behind bars in Iran, including Hamid Ghassemi-Shall who is facing execution after being convicted of espionage, a charge his family say is trumped-up.There was no immediate reaction from Iran in response to Canada's move but Iranian state news agencies reported Baird's statement.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Iran", "Middle East and North Africa", "Human rights", "Law", "Syria"], "title": "Canada cuts diplomatic ties with Iran"},{"date": "2012-09-24T18:29:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Britain is to share diplomatic missions with \"first cousins\" Canada under plans that the Foreign Office hopes will cut costs but which critics in Ottawa claim could reduce their country's independence abroad.In an agreement unveiled on Monday evening in the Canadian capital by the foreign secretary, William Hague, and his Canadian counterpart, John Baird, the two countries will start \"co-locating\" embassies and sharing consular services in countries where either lacks official representation.Asked whether Britain could eventually adopt the same arrangement with Australia and New Zealand as well, the Foreign Office said that while the initiative was \"at an early stage\", discussions had also been held with both countries about the potential for greater co-operation in overseas missions.Before the meeting in Ottawa, Hague said: \"As the prime minister [David Cameron] said when addressing the Canadian parliament last year: 'We are two nations, but under one Queen and united by one set of values.' We have stood shoulder to shoulder [in situations from] the great wars of the last century to fighting terrorists in Afghanistan and supporting 'Arab spring' nations, like Libya and Syria.\"We are first cousins. So it is natural that we look to link up our embassies with Canada's in places where that suits both countries. It will give us a bigger reach abroad for our businesses and people for less cost.\"Diplomatic co-location is not unprecedented: a British diplomat already uses space in the Canadian embassy in Mali, while in Burma a Canadian diplomat is temporarily housed in the British embassy as Ottawa establishes a more permanent presence. The UK also shares several premises with France and Germany.It is understood that the agreement with Canada could allow for enhanced co-operation, for instance in the sharing of administration costs. The Foreign Office said: \"This declaration sets out a number of areas for further co-operation, including co-location, crisis response, security and consular co-operation.\"The coalition government sees the move as a means of reducing costs in some countries while shifting the focus to parts of the world deemed increasingly politically and economically important.Even as it grapples with spending cuts, the Foreign Office is expanding in countries including India, China, Brazil, Turkey and Kyrgyzstan, and has recently appointed a Nairobi-based ambassador to Somalia.In Canada, however, the initiative has drawn criticism. The Globe and Mail in Toronto asked whether the resource-sharing could prove \"a return to [the] colonial past\". It quoted Paul Heinbecker, a former Canadian ambassador to Germany and the country's permanent representative to the UN, as saying: \"We have an incompatible brand with the UK.\"Heinbecker, who referred to past disagreements over issues including Bosnia and apartheid-era South Africa, is also said to have raised concerns over a potential for greater security risks to Canadian diplomats, particularly in the Middle East. \"The idea that we have a sufficient amount in common with the British that it makes sense that we share premises as a matter of routine \u2026 I think, is a mistake,\" he said.The move also led the opposition New Democratic party to question whether Canada's independence on the international stage would be compromised. Stephen Harper, Canada's conservative prime minister, is a passionate anglophile.Referring to reports that Tory Eurosceptics would welcome the development to counter the expansion of the EU's diplomatic corps, the External Action Service, Paul Dewar, an NDP MP, said: \"If the UK is wanting to strengthen its resolve against the EU, we shouldn't be pawns in their game.\"Speaking to the Toronto Sun, he added: \"This is about who represents Canada and our interests. Who's going to represent Canada when competing issues, such as trade, or issues we strongly disagree on, such as fighting in Iraq, come up?\"", "tags": ["Foreign policy", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "UK to share embassy premises with 'first cousins' Canada"},{"date": "2012-09-05T14:15:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's claims of progress on meeting its carbon targets do not add up, according to an independent analysis published on Wednesday.In August, the government said it was halfway to its 2020 emissions goal of a 17% cut on 2005 levels, but the analysis \u2013 the first to date \u2013 says Canada's cuts amount to one-third at best.\"They're [Canada] just playing with numbers to pretend they've actually done something to reduce their emissions,\" said Marion Vieweg, a policy analyst working with the Climate Action Tracker (CAT), an independent science-based assessment that tracks the emission commitments and actions of countries.The Canadian government is taking credit for the emissions declines caused by the 2009 recession and the energy trend away from coal to gas, Vieweg told the Guardian from Bangkok at the close of the latest UN climate summit.\"There is no information in their reports about their policies that are actually driving emission reductions.\"\"The [Stephen] Harper government has been working hard to reduce emissions,\" said the environment minister, Peter Kent, last month, announcing the government's statistics. Only a year ago the Harper government said it was 25% cent of the way to its 2020 target.A big part of the difference is a change in the UN rules this year that allows Canada to claim emissions credits for its vast forests because they absorb CO2. But on the other side of the ledger, Canada is one of biggest logging nations and its forests have experienced massive fires and insect outbreaks that have killed hundreds of millions of trees in recent years. Those emissions are missing in Canada's new numbers and the Harper government assumes there will be few fires or insect problems over the next eight years to 2020, says Vieweg.Meanwhile emissions from Canada's huge tar sands operations will represent 51% of the entire oil/gas sector in 2012, an increase from a share of only 20% in 2005.Canada has been using current data and measuring it against old projections. And it has begun using a methodology previously only used by developing countries, the CAT report found.\"Canada is using accounting tricks to make it look like they are taking action when it's not,\" she said.This week Kent is expected to announce tougher regulations for new coal plants. A year ago draft regulations capped emissions from new coal plants at 375 tonnes of carbon dioxide per gigawatt hour of electricity generated. Media reports suggest the actual standard will be relaxed to about 420 tonnes.", "tags": ["Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Environment", "Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Global climate talks", "Stephen Harper"], "title": "Canada 'playing with numbers' on carbon target claims"},{"date": "2012-12-18T12:23:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Personal Genome Project, an initiative to generate DNA sequence from the genomes of the general public, has been around since 2006. Spearheaded by DNA sequence guru Dr George Church, its premise is simple:We believe individuals from the general public have a vital role to play in making personal genomes useful. We are recruiting volunteers who are willing to share their genome sequence and many types of personal information with the research community and the general public, so that together we will be better able to advance our understanding of genetic and environmental contributions to human traits.In other words, it's about engaging the general public in genome research, to provide background data that can help in all kinds of medical research. Kind of like crowd-sourced genomics.All of this was kicked up a notch recently by the launch of the Canadian arm of the PGP, nicely profiled in a series of articles in the daily newspaper The Globe and Mail. The lead article by veteran science reporter Carolyn Abraham, entitled Would you make your DNA and health data public if it may help cure disease?, tells the story of participant \"Canuck 1\" \u2013 genetic counsellor Jill Davies. It's a fascinating read, and the Globe has come up with a series of additional online materials, including some background on what makes up a genome, the PGP Canada's consent form, and an online poll where readers can weigh in on whether they would have their genome sequenced or not. At the time of writing, 80% of respondents had voted \"yes\".So how does all of this help medical research? Not long ago, my fellow Occam's Corner blogger Erika Cule wrote about her impressions of the recent American Society of Human Genetics conference. The closing remark from ASHG, which she reports in her blog post, was \"Ability to identify variation is no longer the limiting step in our field\". I'm not convinced that's strictly accurate \u2013 after all, genome sequencing, while surprisingly straightforward, is still a fairly big undertaking, and the analysis of the resulting data is not yet the province of desktop computers. But the gist of the message rings true \u2013 genome scientists can now generate data at an unprecedented rate, with essentially off-the-shelf (albeit expensive) instruments capable of producing a human genome project's worth of data in mere days. Using this data to identify the variation between one individual human and the next is the centre point of genetic medicine. And with the near-future promise of the \"$1,000 genome\", there's every hope that genome sequencing might pave the way to routine, genetically personalised medicine. Without getting into a long debate about the origins of this \"$1,000 genome\" term, I think most people would attribute its popularisation to a pair of articles from 2006: one by Church, published in Scientific American, and a second editorial by Robert F Service in Science.Early this year, Erika Check outlined the path forward on the Nature News Blog, in her article The $1,000 genome: are we there yet? (spoiler \u2013 the answer's \"not quite\"). Even the Archon Genomics X Prize has backed off a bit, listing in its guidelines a minimum requirement that genomes be sequenced for a maximum (are you following this?) of $10,000 each, but with a \"best in class\" target of, you guessed it, $1,000.Although that $1,000 figure seems to have been chosen simply because it's a conveniently small, round number, it's in the right ballpark to be useful. The US National Institutes of Health's Genetics Home Reference tells us that genetic tests vary in cost between about $100 and $2,000 each in the US; those numbers are about right for most genetic tests in Canada, too. Imagine, then, a $1,000 genome sequence \u2013 if done right, it could potentially replace the need for every genetic test you would need for the rest of your life (with the exception of tests for a specific tissue \u2013 like cancers). Although I was recently reminded that this optimistic view has to be tempered with the inevitable licensing restrictions around existing tests that would be revealed by a whole genome sequence, it seems likely that big savings to healthcare systems could be realised. And we're pretty much in the right place, scientifically, to be able to do the experiment to find out. So much so that my own institute has also kicked off an ambitious Centre for Genetic Medicine \u2013 in part to answer the question of what impacts can be made through clinical whole-genome sequencing. Can we have positive impact on patients, identifying life-altering conditions far in advance of the presence of symptoms? Can this be done in a rational way based on prioritising certain patients, or is it better to test everyone? What impact on the economics of healthcare might this have here in Canada, and in other places in the world? These are all questions we are now in a position to ask, and potentially answer in the very near future.Which brings us back to the PGP. Research studies have always needed control data \u2013 information that we can compare with data from patients with a specific disease or disorder. Frequently, obtaining these data can be more difficult than data from patients, for whom mechanisms to enrol in research studies are already in place. Personal genomes from the general public have great promise to provide a rich source of fully-consented information that is openly available to the research community. Yes, it may be biased towards people who are curious and able to take advantage of the project (questions well addressed in the Globe article), and there is potential for abuse of this information, as outlined by project ethicist Dr Michael Szego in an accompanying video. But my hypothesis, for now, is that there will be immense value in the PGP, whether from Canada or similar studies in other countries. And I believe that we're now in a position to ask the question, do the experiment, and seek the answers to these important questions.", "tags": ["Genetics", "Medical research", "Science"], "title": "The human genome \u2013 Canada gets personal | Richard Wintle"},{"date": "2012-12-18T12:23:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Personal Genome Project, an initiative to generate DNA sequence from the genomes of the general public, has been around since 2006. Spearheaded by DNA sequence guru Dr George Church, its premise is simple:We believe individuals from the general public have a vital role to play in making personal genomes useful. We are recruiting volunteers who are willing to share their genome sequence and many types of personal information with the research community and the general public, so that together we will be better able to advance our understanding of genetic and environmental contributions to human traits.In other words, it's about engaging the general public in genome research, to provide background data that can help in all kinds of medical research. Kind of like crowd-sourced genomics.All of this was kicked up a notch recently by the launch of the Canadian arm of the PGP, nicely profiled in a series of articles in the daily newspaper The Globe and Mail. The lead article by veteran science reporter Carolyn Abraham, entitled Would you make your DNA and health data public if it may help cure disease?, tells the story of participant \"Canuck 1\" \u2013 genetic counsellor Jill Davies. It's a fascinating read, and the Globe has come up with a series of additional online materials, including some background on what makes up a genome, the PGP Canada's consent form, and an online poll where readers can weigh in on whether they would have their genome sequenced or not. At the time of writing, 80% of respondents had voted \"yes\".So how does all of this help medical research? Not long ago, my fellow Occam's Corner blogger Erika Cule wrote about her impressions of the recent American Society of Human Genetics conference. The closing remark from ASHG, which she reports in her blog post, was \"Ability to identify variation is no longer the limiting step in our field\". I'm not convinced that's strictly accurate \u2013 after all, genome sequencing, while surprisingly straightforward, is still a fairly big undertaking, and the analysis of the resulting data is not yet the province of desktop computers. But the gist of the message rings true \u2013 genome scientists can now generate data at an unprecedented rate, with essentially off-the-shelf (albeit expensive) instruments capable of producing a human genome project's worth of data in mere days. Using this data to identify the variation between one individual human and the next is the centre point of genetic medicine. And with the near-future promise of the \"$1,000 genome\", there's every hope that genome sequencing might pave the way to routine, genetically personalised medicine. Without getting into a long debate about the origins of this \"$1,000 genome\" term, I think most people would attribute its popularisation to a pair of articles from 2006: one by Church, published in Scientific American, and a second editorial by Robert F Service in Science.Early this year, Erika Check outlined the path forward on the Nature News Blog, in her article The $1,000 genome: are we there yet? (spoiler \u2013 the answer's \"not quite\"). Even the Archon Genomics X Prize has backed off a bit, listing in its guidelines a minimum requirement that genomes be sequenced for a maximum (are you following this?) of $10,000 each, but with a \"best in class\" target of, you guessed it, $1,000.Although that $1,000 figure seems to have been chosen simply because it's a conveniently small, round number, it's in the right ballpark to be useful. The US National Institutes of Health's Genetics Home Reference tells us that genetic tests vary in cost between about $100 and $2,000 each in the US; those numbers are about right for most genetic tests in Canada, too. Imagine, then, a $1,000 genome sequence \u2013 if done right, it could potentially replace the need for every genetic test you would need for the rest of your life (with the exception of tests for a specific tissue \u2013 like cancers). Although I was recently reminded that this optimistic view has to be tempered with the inevitable licensing restrictions around existing tests that would be revealed by a whole genome sequence, it seems likely that big savings to healthcare systems could be realised. And we're pretty much in the right place, scientifically, to be able to do the experiment to find out. So much so that my own institute has also kicked off an ambitious Centre for Genetic Medicine \u2013 in part to answer the question of what impacts can be made through clinical whole-genome sequencing. Can we have positive impact on patients, identifying life-altering conditions far in advance of the presence of symptoms? Can this be done in a rational way based on prioritising certain patients, or is it better to test everyone? What impact on the economics of healthcare might this have here in Canada, and in other places in the world? These are all questions we are now in a position to ask, and potentially answer in the very near future.Which brings us back to the PGP. Research studies have always needed control data \u2013 information that we can compare with data from patients with a specific disease or disorder. Frequently, obtaining these data can be more difficult than data from patients, for whom mechanisms to enrol in research studies are already in place. Personal genomes from the general public have great promise to provide a rich source of fully-consented information that is openly available to the research community. Yes, it may be biased towards people who are curious and able to take advantage of the project (questions well addressed in the Globe article), and there is potential for abuse of this information, as outlined by project ethicist Dr Michael Szego in an accompanying video. But my hypothesis, for now, is that there will be immense value in the PGP, whether from Canada or similar studies in other countries. And I believe that we're now in a position to ask the question, do the experiment, and seek the answers to these important questions.", "tags": ["Genetics", "Medical research", "Science"], "title": "The human genome \u2013 Canada gets personal | Richard Wintle"},{"date": "2012-11-29T08:45:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, the world's second-largest country, was colonised by the British and French in the 15th century, meaning that today it is officially bilingual, with almost a quarter of citizens speaking French (centred largely around francophone Quebec). This isn't the only reason Canada is popular \u2013 modern cities nestled among stunning scenery make for a vibrant, outdoors lifestyle.Almost everyone has access to high quality healthcare in Canada, which makes it attractive to expats, and there is an incredible variety of regions to see and explore. These range from cities such as Toronto (pronounced \"Tronno\" by the locals), Montreal and Vancouver (where most expats congregate), to the world-class ski resorts of Whistler and Calgary.Canada is a vast expanse, where locals and visitors alike can holiday in the country every year without getting bored. A trip to see the northern lights in Newfoundland and whale-watching off Vancouver are musts.If you settle in Canada you should feel welcome \u2013 the country has one of the highest per capita immigration rates in the world. According to the Canadian immigration service the country is looking to attract between 240,000 and 265,000 new permanent residents in 2012 alone.You'll probably need the most common visa \u2013 the skilled workers and professionals visa \u2013 but in order to get one you'll have to prove you will be an advantage to the economy (Quebec has its own regional visa of this type). You'll be scored on criteria such as age and occupation, with the holy grail of 67 points needed to be considered for entry. Failing that there are visas for entrepreneurs and investors, visas for people who have skills that are needed in a specific province, and family visas for those joining a spouse or family member.Check out the Canadian Citizenship and Immigration service's Visa Wizard to see whether you're eligible.You must be able to show you have enough money to support yourself and your dependants, unless you have arranged employment in Canada. This means you need to have funds from CAN$11,115 (\u00a36,968) for one family member, to CAN$29,414 for seven or more family members. You will also need to pass a medical exam.The UK state pension is payable in Canada, but unfortunately you will not get annual increases in benefit once you have ceased to be resident in the UK. This means your benefit will stay at the same rate as when you left the UK.You need only routine vaccinations, though Hepatitis B is recommended, as well as rabies if you are likely to be involved in any activities that might bring you into direct contact with bats, carnivores and other mammals.What airport will you arrive at? Depends where you're heading. Ottawa is the capital, but the largest city is Toronto \u2013 either are likely first stops.Local currency The Canadian dollar. On 12 NOvember 2012 \u00a31 is $1.59.How do you spot a cab? Many cabs are yellow, like New York taxis, but there are just as many cabs of other colours.Price of a hotel room Depends on the season and where you are, but anything from \u00a350-\u00a3150 for a three-star hotel. For example, in November the three-star Ramada Downtown Vancouver is charging \u00a352 a night compared to \u00a3103 at the three-star Ramada Downtown Calgary. Hotels.com put the average price at \u00a3105 in the first half of 2012.Price of a house About $750,000 for a three-bed house in Vancouver. According to Numbeo, the price per square metre for an apartment in Toronto city centre is $6,234.31, dropping to $3,767.37 in the suburbs.Price of a pint of milk: $1.13.What language do most people speak? Canadian English and Canadian French.What tax will you pay? Federal tax rates are 15% on the first $42,707 of taxable income; 22% on the next $42,707 of taxable income (ie, more than 42,707 up to $85,414); 26% on the next $46,992 of taxable income (up to\u00a0$132,406); and 29% on income in excess of $132,406. There are also lower, provincial tax rates which you can view at the Canada Revenue Agency's website.How long will it take to send a letter home? Up to two weeks, but five-10 days if you're lucky.\u2022 The Canuck language throws up some interesting definitions: suckers are lollipops; noodles means pasta; a loonie is a dollar; a parkade is a multi-storey car park; a gas bar is the petrol station; and hydro means electricity (as in hydro-electric).\u2022 Ice hockey, known simply as hockey in Canada, and lacrosse are the country's national sports.\u2022 Mail is not delivered on Saturdays in Canada.\u2022 Winnie the Pooh originally comes from Canada. Well, sort of. AA Milne's son Christopher Robin visited London zoo and fell in love with a bear that had been exported from Winnipeg in Canada.\u2022 Famous Canadians include Pamela Anderson, Leonard Cohen, Avril Lavigne, Keanu Reeves and Jim Carrey.Karen Brooks, 27, and her partner Nic Ollier, 26, moved to Whistler in October 2010 after completing a winter sports season at the resort in 2008-09. \"Nic and I did a winter season and we fell in love with the place,\" Brooks says. \"The people, the outdoor lifestyle and breathtaking scenery: we came back for a more permanent stay.\" Ollier adds: \"There are endless adventures to be had and never a dull day. You can't decide whether to go mountain biking, hiking, swimming in the lake, fishing or all of the above.\"The two were living in Surrey when they decided to migrate. Brooks now works in sales for an adventure tour operator called The Adventure Group, while Ollier works as a snowmobile tour guide in winter and a quad bike tour guide in summer, providing backcountry tours just south of Whistler village.\"The weather is a big factor in why we like it here \u2013 the snowy winters and hot summers,\" Brooks says.\"I also feel like I'm surrounded by like-minded people, and the scenery blows my mind continually,\" Ollier says. \"The more time you spend here there more things you discover and the more a part of everything you feel.\"The couple say it is easy to meet other expats in Whistler because it draws in people from all over the world, but many of the Brits they meet are only there temporarily. \"That's typical of resort life and doesn't reflect the rest of British Columbia,\" Ollier explains.If the pair were to give one piece of advice for people about to make the same move it would be to \"try and establish as much as you can before you leave, but accept it will take a while to find the right job and an affordable place to live. You need patience to cope with the immigration system \u2013 it's very confusing, slow and frustrating.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in Canada? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"Canada\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to Canada in the comments section. ", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance", "Money"], "title": "A UK's expat's guide to Canada"},{"date": "2012-12-18T12:23:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Personal Genome Project, an initiative to generate DNA sequence from the genomes of the general public, has been around since 2006. Spearheaded by DNA sequence guru Dr George Church, its premise is simple:We believe individuals from the general public have a vital role to play in making personal genomes useful. We are recruiting volunteers who are willing to share their genome sequence and many types of personal information with the research community and the general public, so that together we will be better able to advance our understanding of genetic and environmental contributions to human traits.In other words, it's about engaging the general public in genome research, to provide background data that can help in all kinds of medical research. Kind of like crowd-sourced genomics.All of this was kicked up a notch recently by the launch of the Canadian arm of the PGP, nicely profiled in a series of articles in the daily newspaper The Globe and Mail. The lead article by veteran science reporter Carolyn Abraham, entitled Would you make your DNA and health data public if it may help cure disease?, tells the story of participant \"Canuck 1\" \u2013 genetic counsellor Jill Davies. It's a fascinating read, and the Globe has come up with a series of additional online materials, including some background on what makes up a genome, the PGP Canada's consent form, and an online poll where readers can weigh in on whether they would have their genome sequenced or not. At the time of writing, 80% of respondents had voted \"yes\".So how does all of this help medical research? Not long ago, my fellow Occam's Corner blogger Erika Cule wrote about her impressions of the recent American Society of Human Genetics conference. The closing remark from ASHG, which she reports in her blog post, was \"Ability to identify variation is no longer the limiting step in our field\". I'm not convinced that's strictly accurate \u2013 after all, genome sequencing, while surprisingly straightforward, is still a fairly big undertaking, and the analysis of the resulting data is not yet the province of desktop computers. But the gist of the message rings true \u2013 genome scientists can now generate data at an unprecedented rate, with essentially off-the-shelf (albeit expensive) instruments capable of producing a human genome project's worth of data in mere days. Using this data to identify the variation between one individual human and the next is the centre point of genetic medicine. And with the near-future promise of the \"$1,000 genome\", there's every hope that genome sequencing might pave the way to routine, genetically personalised medicine. Without getting into a long debate about the origins of this \"$1,000 genome\" term, I think most people would attribute its popularisation to a pair of articles from 2006: one by Church, published in Scientific American, and a second editorial by Robert F Service in Science.Early this year, Erika Check outlined the path forward on the Nature News Blog, in her article The $1,000 genome: are we there yet? (spoiler \u2013 the answer's \"not quite\"). Even the Archon Genomics X Prize has backed off a bit, listing in its guidelines a minimum requirement that genomes be sequenced for a maximum (are you following this?) of $10,000 each, but with a \"best in class\" target of, you guessed it, $1,000.Although that $1,000 figure seems to have been chosen simply because it's a conveniently small, round number, it's in the right ballpark to be useful. The US National Institutes of Health's Genetics Home Reference tells us that genetic tests vary in cost between about $100 and $2,000 each in the US; those numbers are about right for most genetic tests in Canada, too. Imagine, then, a $1,000 genome sequence \u2013 if done right, it could potentially replace the need for every genetic test you would need for the rest of your life (with the exception of tests for a specific tissue \u2013 like cancers). Although I was recently reminded that this optimistic view has to be tempered with the inevitable licensing restrictions around existing tests that would be revealed by a whole genome sequence, it seems likely that big savings to healthcare systems could be realised. And we're pretty much in the right place, scientifically, to be able to do the experiment to find out. So much so that my own institute has also kicked off an ambitious Centre for Genetic Medicine \u2013 in part to answer the question of what impacts can be made through clinical whole-genome sequencing. Can we have positive impact on patients, identifying life-altering conditions far in advance of the presence of symptoms? Can this be done in a rational way based on prioritising certain patients, or is it better to test everyone? What impact on the economics of healthcare might this have here in Canada, and in other places in the world? These are all questions we are now in a position to ask, and potentially answer in the very near future.Which brings us back to the PGP. Research studies have always needed control data \u2013 information that we can compare with data from patients with a specific disease or disorder. Frequently, obtaining these data can be more difficult than data from patients, for whom mechanisms to enrol in research studies are already in place. Personal genomes from the general public have great promise to provide a rich source of fully-consented information that is openly available to the research community. Yes, it may be biased towards people who are curious and able to take advantage of the project (questions well addressed in the Globe article), and there is potential for abuse of this information, as outlined by project ethicist Dr Michael Szego in an accompanying video. But my hypothesis, for now, is that there will be immense value in the PGP, whether from Canada or similar studies in other countries. And I believe that we're now in a position to ask the question, do the experiment, and seek the answers to these important questions.", "tags": ["Genetics", "Medical research", "Science"], "title": "The human genome \u2013 Canada gets personal | Richard Wintle"},{"date": "2012-11-29T08:45:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, the world's second-largest country, was colonised by the British and French in the 15th century, meaning that today it is officially bilingual, with almost a quarter of citizens speaking French (centred largely around francophone Quebec). This isn't the only reason Canada is popular \u2013 modern cities nestled among stunning scenery make for a vibrant, outdoors lifestyle.Almost everyone has access to high quality healthcare in Canada, which makes it attractive to expats, and there is an incredible variety of regions to see and explore. These range from cities such as Toronto (pronounced \"Tronno\" by the locals), Montreal and Vancouver (where most expats congregate), to the world-class ski resorts of Whistler and Calgary.Canada is a vast expanse, where locals and visitors alike can holiday in the country every year without getting bored. A trip to see the northern lights in Newfoundland and whale-watching off Vancouver are musts.If you settle in Canada you should feel welcome \u2013 the country has one of the highest per capita immigration rates in the world. According to the Canadian immigration service the country is looking to attract between 240,000 and 265,000 new permanent residents in 2012 alone.You'll probably need the most common visa \u2013 the skilled workers and professionals visa \u2013 but in order to get one you'll have to prove you will be an advantage to the economy (Quebec has its own regional visa of this type). You'll be scored on criteria such as age and occupation, with the holy grail of 67 points needed to be considered for entry. Failing that there are visas for entrepreneurs and investors, visas for people who have skills that are needed in a specific province, and family visas for those joining a spouse or family member.Check out the Canadian Citizenship and Immigration service's Visa Wizard to see whether you're eligible.You must be able to show you have enough money to support yourself and your dependants, unless you have arranged employment in Canada. This means you need to have funds from CAN$11,115 (\u00a36,968) for one family member, to CAN$29,414 for seven or more family members. You will also need to pass a medical exam.The UK state pension is payable in Canada, but unfortunately you will not get annual increases in benefit once you have ceased to be resident in the UK. This means your benefit will stay at the same rate as when you left the UK.You need only routine vaccinations, though Hepatitis B is recommended, as well as rabies if you are likely to be involved in any activities that might bring you into direct contact with bats, carnivores and other mammals.What airport will you arrive at? Depends where you're heading. Ottawa is the capital, but the largest city is Toronto \u2013 either are likely first stops.Local currency The Canadian dollar. On 12 NOvember 2012 \u00a31 is $1.59.How do you spot a cab? Many cabs are yellow, like New York taxis, but there are just as many cabs of other colours.Price of a hotel room Depends on the season and where you are, but anything from \u00a350-\u00a3150 for a three-star hotel. For example, in November the three-star Ramada Downtown Vancouver is charging \u00a352 a night compared to \u00a3103 at the three-star Ramada Downtown Calgary. Hotels.com put the average price at \u00a3105 in the first half of 2012.Price of a house About $750,000 for a three-bed house in Vancouver. According to Numbeo, the price per square metre for an apartment in Toronto city centre is $6,234.31, dropping to $3,767.37 in the suburbs.Price of a pint of milk: $1.13.What language do most people speak? Canadian English and Canadian French.What tax will you pay? Federal tax rates are 15% on the first $42,707 of taxable income; 22% on the next $42,707 of taxable income (ie, more than 42,707 up to $85,414); 26% on the next $46,992 of taxable income (up to\u00a0$132,406); and 29% on income in excess of $132,406. There are also lower, provincial tax rates which you can view at the Canada Revenue Agency's website.How long will it take to send a letter home? Up to two weeks, but five-10 days if you're lucky.\u2022 The Canuck language throws up some interesting definitions: suckers are lollipops; noodles means pasta; a loonie is a dollar; a parkade is a multi-storey car park; a gas bar is the petrol station; and hydro means electricity (as in hydro-electric).\u2022 Ice hockey, known simply as hockey in Canada, and lacrosse are the country's national sports.\u2022 Mail is not delivered on Saturdays in Canada.\u2022 Winnie the Pooh originally comes from Canada. Well, sort of. AA Milne's son Christopher Robin visited London zoo and fell in love with a bear that had been exported from Winnipeg in Canada.\u2022 Famous Canadians include Pamela Anderson, Leonard Cohen, Avril Lavigne, Keanu Reeves and Jim Carrey.Karen Brooks, 27, and her partner Nic Ollier, 26, moved to Whistler in October 2010 after completing a winter sports season at the resort in 2008-09. \"Nic and I did a winter season and we fell in love with the place,\" Brooks says. \"The people, the outdoor lifestyle and breathtaking scenery: we came back for a more permanent stay.\" Ollier adds: \"There are endless adventures to be had and never a dull day. You can't decide whether to go mountain biking, hiking, swimming in the lake, fishing or all of the above.\"The two were living in Surrey when they decided to migrate. Brooks now works in sales for an adventure tour operator called The Adventure Group, while Ollier works as a snowmobile tour guide in winter and a quad bike tour guide in summer, providing backcountry tours just south of Whistler village.\"The weather is a big factor in why we like it here \u2013 the snowy winters and hot summers,\" Brooks says.\"I also feel like I'm surrounded by like-minded people, and the scenery blows my mind continually,\" Ollier says. \"The more time you spend here there more things you discover and the more a part of everything you feel.\"The couple say it is easy to meet other expats in Whistler because it draws in people from all over the world, but many of the Brits they meet are only there temporarily. \"That's typical of resort life and doesn't reflect the rest of British Columbia,\" Ollier explains.If the pair were to give one piece of advice for people about to make the same move it would be to \"try and establish as much as you can before you leave, but accept it will take a while to find the right job and an affordable place to live. You need patience to cope with the immigration system \u2013 it's very confusing, slow and frustrating.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in Canada? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"Canada\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to Canada in the comments section. ", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance", "Money"], "title": "A UK's expat's guide to Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-28T09:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When Julilly is snatched away from her mother's clutches and sent into the Deep South to work on the cotton plantations, she is mortified. She meets Liza, they soon become firm friends and they secretly talk about the freedom land together, and there dream to one day reach there.When she is finally given the chance by a member of the Underground Railway she leaves with Liza to journey up the whole of America. But the slave catchers and dogs will soon be after them; will they escape the hate and wrath of ol' Sims? Or will they get many a whipping for their so-called evil ways?This book has all the qualities that you could want: adventure, tragic, excitement and suspense. This heart-warming tale of a slaves journey to freedom will blow your mind away with how hard life was back then and the extent one girl will go to, to save her friends and to get back with her mother. I recommend this book to anyone who loves history and who also loves adventure, this book is for girls and boys and anyone from the age of 9-14. I give this book a 100/10 \u2013 you can't get better than this!!Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Adventure (children and teens)", "Historical fiction (children and teens)"], "title": "Underground to Canada by Barbara Smucker - review"},{"date": "2012-12-18T12:23:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Personal Genome Project, an initiative to generate DNA sequence from the genomes of the general public, has been around since 2006. Spearheaded by DNA sequence guru Dr George Church, its premise is simple:We believe individuals from the general public have a vital role to play in making personal genomes useful. We are recruiting volunteers who are willing to share their genome sequence and many types of personal information with the research community and the general public, so that together we will be better able to advance our understanding of genetic and environmental contributions to human traits.In other words, it's about engaging the general public in genome research, to provide background data that can help in all kinds of medical research. Kind of like crowd-sourced genomics.All of this was kicked up a notch recently by the launch of the Canadian arm of the PGP, nicely profiled in a series of articles in the daily newspaper The Globe and Mail. The lead article by veteran science reporter Carolyn Abraham, entitled Would you make your DNA and health data public if it may help cure disease?, tells the story of participant \"Canuck 1\" \u2013 genetic counsellor Jill Davies. It's a fascinating read, and the Globe has come up with a series of additional online materials, including some background on what makes up a genome, the PGP Canada's consent form, and an online poll where readers can weigh in on whether they would have their genome sequenced or not. At the time of writing, 80% of respondents had voted \"yes\".So how does all of this help medical research? Not long ago, my fellow Occam's Corner blogger Erika Cule wrote about her impressions of the recent American Society of Human Genetics conference. The closing remark from ASHG, which she reports in her blog post, was \"Ability to identify variation is no longer the limiting step in our field\". I'm not convinced that's strictly accurate \u2013 after all, genome sequencing, while surprisingly straightforward, is still a fairly big undertaking, and the analysis of the resulting data is not yet the province of desktop computers. But the gist of the message rings true \u2013 genome scientists can now generate data at an unprecedented rate, with essentially off-the-shelf (albeit expensive) instruments capable of producing a human genome project's worth of data in mere days. Using this data to identify the variation between one individual human and the next is the centre point of genetic medicine. And with the near-future promise of the \"$1,000 genome\", there's every hope that genome sequencing might pave the way to routine, genetically personalised medicine. Without getting into a long debate about the origins of this \"$1,000 genome\" term, I think most people would attribute its popularisation to a pair of articles from 2006: one by Church, published in Scientific American, and a second editorial by Robert F Service in Science.Early this year, Erika Check outlined the path forward on the Nature News Blog, in her article The $1,000 genome: are we there yet? (spoiler \u2013 the answer's \"not quite\"). Even the Archon Genomics X Prize has backed off a bit, listing in its guidelines a minimum requirement that genomes be sequenced for a maximum (are you following this?) of $10,000 each, but with a \"best in class\" target of, you guessed it, $1,000.Although that $1,000 figure seems to have been chosen simply because it's a conveniently small, round number, it's in the right ballpark to be useful. The US National Institutes of Health's Genetics Home Reference tells us that genetic tests vary in cost between about $100 and $2,000 each in the US; those numbers are about right for most genetic tests in Canada, too. Imagine, then, a $1,000 genome sequence \u2013 if done right, it could potentially replace the need for every genetic test you would need for the rest of your life (with the exception of tests for a specific tissue \u2013 like cancers). Although I was recently reminded that this optimistic view has to be tempered with the inevitable licensing restrictions around existing tests that would be revealed by a whole genome sequence, it seems likely that big savings to healthcare systems could be realised. And we're pretty much in the right place, scientifically, to be able to do the experiment to find out. So much so that my own institute has also kicked off an ambitious Centre for Genetic Medicine \u2013 in part to answer the question of what impacts can be made through clinical whole-genome sequencing. Can we have positive impact on patients, identifying life-altering conditions far in advance of the presence of symptoms? Can this be done in a rational way based on prioritising certain patients, or is it better to test everyone? What impact on the economics of healthcare might this have here in Canada, and in other places in the world? These are all questions we are now in a position to ask, and potentially answer in the very near future.Which brings us back to the PGP. Research studies have always needed control data \u2013 information that we can compare with data from patients with a specific disease or disorder. Frequently, obtaining these data can be more difficult than data from patients, for whom mechanisms to enrol in research studies are already in place. Personal genomes from the general public have great promise to provide a rich source of fully-consented information that is openly available to the research community. Yes, it may be biased towards people who are curious and able to take advantage of the project (questions well addressed in the Globe article), and there is potential for abuse of this information, as outlined by project ethicist Dr Michael Szego in an accompanying video. But my hypothesis, for now, is that there will be immense value in the PGP, whether from Canada or similar studies in other countries. And I believe that we're now in a position to ask the question, do the experiment, and seek the answers to these important questions.", "tags": ["Genetics", "Medical research", "Science"], "title": "The human genome \u2013 Canada gets personal | Richard Wintle"},{"date": "2012-11-29T08:45:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, the world's second-largest country, was colonised by the British and French in the 15th century, meaning that today it is officially bilingual, with almost a quarter of citizens speaking French (centred largely around francophone Quebec). This isn't the only reason Canada is popular \u2013 modern cities nestled among stunning scenery make for a vibrant, outdoors lifestyle.Almost everyone has access to high quality healthcare in Canada, which makes it attractive to expats, and there is an incredible variety of regions to see and explore. These range from cities such as Toronto (pronounced \"Tronno\" by the locals), Montreal and Vancouver (where most expats congregate), to the world-class ski resorts of Whistler and Calgary.Canada is a vast expanse, where locals and visitors alike can holiday in the country every year without getting bored. A trip to see the northern lights in Newfoundland and whale-watching off Vancouver are musts.If you settle in Canada you should feel welcome \u2013 the country has one of the highest per capita immigration rates in the world. According to the Canadian immigration service the country is looking to attract between 240,000 and 265,000 new permanent residents in 2012 alone.You'll probably need the most common visa \u2013 the skilled workers and professionals visa \u2013 but in order to get one you'll have to prove you will be an advantage to the economy (Quebec has its own regional visa of this type). You'll be scored on criteria such as age and occupation, with the holy grail of 67 points needed to be considered for entry. Failing that there are visas for entrepreneurs and investors, visas for people who have skills that are needed in a specific province, and family visas for those joining a spouse or family member.Check out the Canadian Citizenship and Immigration service's Visa Wizard to see whether you're eligible.You must be able to show you have enough money to support yourself and your dependants, unless you have arranged employment in Canada. This means you need to have funds from CAN$11,115 (\u00a36,968) for one family member, to CAN$29,414 for seven or more family members. You will also need to pass a medical exam.The UK state pension is payable in Canada, but unfortunately you will not get annual increases in benefit once you have ceased to be resident in the UK. This means your benefit will stay at the same rate as when you left the UK.You need only routine vaccinations, though Hepatitis B is recommended, as well as rabies if you are likely to be involved in any activities that might bring you into direct contact with bats, carnivores and other mammals.What airport will you arrive at? Depends where you're heading. Ottawa is the capital, but the largest city is Toronto \u2013 either are likely first stops.Local currency The Canadian dollar. On 12 NOvember 2012 \u00a31 is $1.59.How do you spot a cab? Many cabs are yellow, like New York taxis, but there are just as many cabs of other colours.Price of a hotel room Depends on the season and where you are, but anything from \u00a350-\u00a3150 for a three-star hotel. For example, in November the three-star Ramada Downtown Vancouver is charging \u00a352 a night compared to \u00a3103 at the three-star Ramada Downtown Calgary. Hotels.com put the average price at \u00a3105 in the first half of 2012.Price of a house About $750,000 for a three-bed house in Vancouver. According to Numbeo, the price per square metre for an apartment in Toronto city centre is $6,234.31, dropping to $3,767.37 in the suburbs.Price of a pint of milk: $1.13.What language do most people speak? Canadian English and Canadian French.What tax will you pay? Federal tax rates are 15% on the first $42,707 of taxable income; 22% on the next $42,707 of taxable income (ie, more than 42,707 up to $85,414); 26% on the next $46,992 of taxable income (up to\u00a0$132,406); and 29% on income in excess of $132,406. There are also lower, provincial tax rates which you can view at the Canada Revenue Agency's website.How long will it take to send a letter home? Up to two weeks, but five-10 days if you're lucky.\u2022 The Canuck language throws up some interesting definitions: suckers are lollipops; noodles means pasta; a loonie is a dollar; a parkade is a multi-storey car park; a gas bar is the petrol station; and hydro means electricity (as in hydro-electric).\u2022 Ice hockey, known simply as hockey in Canada, and lacrosse are the country's national sports.\u2022 Mail is not delivered on Saturdays in Canada.\u2022 Winnie the Pooh originally comes from Canada. Well, sort of. AA Milne's son Christopher Robin visited London zoo and fell in love with a bear that had been exported from Winnipeg in Canada.\u2022 Famous Canadians include Pamela Anderson, Leonard Cohen, Avril Lavigne, Keanu Reeves and Jim Carrey.Karen Brooks, 27, and her partner Nic Ollier, 26, moved to Whistler in October 2010 after completing a winter sports season at the resort in 2008-09. \"Nic and I did a winter season and we fell in love with the place,\" Brooks says. \"The people, the outdoor lifestyle and breathtaking scenery: we came back for a more permanent stay.\" Ollier adds: \"There are endless adventures to be had and never a dull day. You can't decide whether to go mountain biking, hiking, swimming in the lake, fishing or all of the above.\"The two were living in Surrey when they decided to migrate. Brooks now works in sales for an adventure tour operator called The Adventure Group, while Ollier works as a snowmobile tour guide in winter and a quad bike tour guide in summer, providing backcountry tours just south of Whistler village.\"The weather is a big factor in why we like it here \u2013 the snowy winters and hot summers,\" Brooks says.\"I also feel like I'm surrounded by like-minded people, and the scenery blows my mind continually,\" Ollier says. \"The more time you spend here there more things you discover and the more a part of everything you feel.\"The couple say it is easy to meet other expats in Whistler because it draws in people from all over the world, but many of the Brits they meet are only there temporarily. \"That's typical of resort life and doesn't reflect the rest of British Columbia,\" Ollier explains.If the pair were to give one piece of advice for people about to make the same move it would be to \"try and establish as much as you can before you leave, but accept it will take a while to find the right job and an affordable place to live. You need patience to cope with the immigration system \u2013 it's very confusing, slow and frustrating.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in Canada? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"Canada\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to Canada in the comments section. ", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance", "Money"], "title": "A UK's expat's guide to Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-28T09:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When Julilly is snatched away from her mother's clutches and sent into the Deep South to work on the cotton plantations, she is mortified. She meets Liza, they soon become firm friends and they secretly talk about the freedom land together, and there dream to one day reach there.When she is finally given the chance by a member of the Underground Railway she leaves with Liza to journey up the whole of America. But the slave catchers and dogs will soon be after them; will they escape the hate and wrath of ol' Sims? Or will they get many a whipping for their so-called evil ways?This book has all the qualities that you could want: adventure, tragic, excitement and suspense. This heart-warming tale of a slaves journey to freedom will blow your mind away with how hard life was back then and the extent one girl will go to, to save her friends and to get back with her mother. I recommend this book to anyone who loves history and who also loves adventure, this book is for girls and boys and anyone from the age of 9-14. I give this book a 100/10 \u2013 you can't get better than this!!Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Adventure (children and teens)", "Historical fiction (children and teens)"], "title": "Underground to Canada by Barbara Smucker - review"},{"date": "2012-11-28T15:21:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ipswich might be a long way from Ontario, but the distance will shrink in just over a year when Alecky Blythe and Adam Cork's verbatim musical London Road, an unlikely hit at London's National theatre, receives its Canadian premiere.The musical, which opened in 2011 inside the NT's smallest space and went on to win best musical at the Critics' Circle awards, will receive a new production by the Canadian Stage Company under the direction of Jackie Maxwell, artistic director of the Shaw Festival theatre in Ontario. After opening on 19 January 2014, the production will run for three weeks.The musical, originally directed by Rufus Norris, is based on the responses of local residents to the serial killings that took place in Ipswich in late 2006 and was the subject of some controversy prior to its world premiere in April 2011. It was subsequently revived in the much bigger Olivier auditorium last summer, during the tricky Olympic period.London Road will be joined in the Canadian Stage season by another British production, Akram Khan's Desh, which started life at Sadler's Wells six months afterwards. Guardian dance critic Judith Mackrell described Khan's piece as \"the most urgent, beautiful and confident work of his career\"; high praise for a man who was involved in Peter Brook's Mahabharata, and who has run his own company since 2000. Khan played an integral part in the Olympic opening ceremony, dancing to Emile Sande's rendition of Abide with Me.The other two productions of international note headed for CSC next year are a reimagined staging of Robert Lepage's 1980 piece Needles and Opium \u2013 a look at the relationship between addiction and art \u2013 and Venus in Fur, a Broadway success in 2011 for playwright David Ives, which is also being adapted for film by Roman Polanski.", "tags": ["Musicals", "Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "London Road wends it way to Canada"},{"date": "2012-12-18T12:23:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Personal Genome Project, an initiative to generate DNA sequence from the genomes of the general public, has been around since 2006. Spearheaded by DNA sequence guru Dr George Church, its premise is simple:We believe individuals from the general public have a vital role to play in making personal genomes useful. We are recruiting volunteers who are willing to share their genome sequence and many types of personal information with the research community and the general public, so that together we will be better able to advance our understanding of genetic and environmental contributions to human traits.In other words, it's about engaging the general public in genome research, to provide background data that can help in all kinds of medical research. Kind of like crowd-sourced genomics.All of this was kicked up a notch recently by the launch of the Canadian arm of the PGP, nicely profiled in a series of articles in the daily newspaper The Globe and Mail. The lead article by veteran science reporter Carolyn Abraham, entitled Would you make your DNA and health data public if it may help cure disease?, tells the story of participant \"Canuck 1\" \u2013 genetic counsellor Jill Davies. It's a fascinating read, and the Globe has come up with a series of additional online materials, including some background on what makes up a genome, the PGP Canada's consent form, and an online poll where readers can weigh in on whether they would have their genome sequenced or not. At the time of writing, 80% of respondents had voted \"yes\".So how does all of this help medical research? Not long ago, my fellow Occam's Corner blogger Erika Cule wrote about her impressions of the recent American Society of Human Genetics conference. The closing remark from ASHG, which she reports in her blog post, was \"Ability to identify variation is no longer the limiting step in our field\". I'm not convinced that's strictly accurate \u2013 after all, genome sequencing, while surprisingly straightforward, is still a fairly big undertaking, and the analysis of the resulting data is not yet the province of desktop computers. But the gist of the message rings true \u2013 genome scientists can now generate data at an unprecedented rate, with essentially off-the-shelf (albeit expensive) instruments capable of producing a human genome project's worth of data in mere days. Using this data to identify the variation between one individual human and the next is the centre point of genetic medicine. And with the near-future promise of the \"$1,000 genome\", there's every hope that genome sequencing might pave the way to routine, genetically personalised medicine. Without getting into a long debate about the origins of this \"$1,000 genome\" term, I think most people would attribute its popularisation to a pair of articles from 2006: one by Church, published in Scientific American, and a second editorial by Robert F Service in Science.Early this year, Erika Check outlined the path forward on the Nature News Blog, in her article The $1,000 genome: are we there yet? (spoiler \u2013 the answer's \"not quite\"). Even the Archon Genomics X Prize has backed off a bit, listing in its guidelines a minimum requirement that genomes be sequenced for a maximum (are you following this?) of $10,000 each, but with a \"best in class\" target of, you guessed it, $1,000.Although that $1,000 figure seems to have been chosen simply because it's a conveniently small, round number, it's in the right ballpark to be useful. The US National Institutes of Health's Genetics Home Reference tells us that genetic tests vary in cost between about $100 and $2,000 each in the US; those numbers are about right for most genetic tests in Canada, too. Imagine, then, a $1,000 genome sequence \u2013 if done right, it could potentially replace the need for every genetic test you would need for the rest of your life (with the exception of tests for a specific tissue \u2013 like cancers). Although I was recently reminded that this optimistic view has to be tempered with the inevitable licensing restrictions around existing tests that would be revealed by a whole genome sequence, it seems likely that big savings to healthcare systems could be realised. And we're pretty much in the right place, scientifically, to be able to do the experiment to find out. So much so that my own institute has also kicked off an ambitious Centre for Genetic Medicine \u2013 in part to answer the question of what impacts can be made through clinical whole-genome sequencing. Can we have positive impact on patients, identifying life-altering conditions far in advance of the presence of symptoms? Can this be done in a rational way based on prioritising certain patients, or is it better to test everyone? What impact on the economics of healthcare might this have here in Canada, and in other places in the world? These are all questions we are now in a position to ask, and potentially answer in the very near future.Which brings us back to the PGP. Research studies have always needed control data \u2013 information that we can compare with data from patients with a specific disease or disorder. Frequently, obtaining these data can be more difficult than data from patients, for whom mechanisms to enrol in research studies are already in place. Personal genomes from the general public have great promise to provide a rich source of fully-consented information that is openly available to the research community. Yes, it may be biased towards people who are curious and able to take advantage of the project (questions well addressed in the Globe article), and there is potential for abuse of this information, as outlined by project ethicist Dr Michael Szego in an accompanying video. But my hypothesis, for now, is that there will be immense value in the PGP, whether from Canada or similar studies in other countries. And I believe that we're now in a position to ask the question, do the experiment, and seek the answers to these important questions.", "tags": ["Genetics", "Medical research", "Science"], "title": "The human genome \u2013 Canada gets personal | Richard Wintle"},{"date": "2012-11-29T08:45:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, the world's second-largest country, was colonised by the British and French in the 15th century, meaning that today it is officially bilingual, with almost a quarter of citizens speaking French (centred largely around francophone Quebec). This isn't the only reason Canada is popular \u2013 modern cities nestled among stunning scenery make for a vibrant, outdoors lifestyle.Almost everyone has access to high quality healthcare in Canada, which makes it attractive to expats, and there is an incredible variety of regions to see and explore. These range from cities such as Toronto (pronounced \"Tronno\" by the locals), Montreal and Vancouver (where most expats congregate), to the world-class ski resorts of Whistler and Calgary.Canada is a vast expanse, where locals and visitors alike can holiday in the country every year without getting bored. A trip to see the northern lights in Newfoundland and whale-watching off Vancouver are musts.If you settle in Canada you should feel welcome \u2013 the country has one of the highest per capita immigration rates in the world. According to the Canadian immigration service the country is looking to attract between 240,000 and 265,000 new permanent residents in 2012 alone.You'll probably need the most common visa \u2013 the skilled workers and professionals visa \u2013 but in order to get one you'll have to prove you will be an advantage to the economy (Quebec has its own regional visa of this type). You'll be scored on criteria such as age and occupation, with the holy grail of 67 points needed to be considered for entry. Failing that there are visas for entrepreneurs and investors, visas for people who have skills that are needed in a specific province, and family visas for those joining a spouse or family member.Check out the Canadian Citizenship and Immigration service's Visa Wizard to see whether you're eligible.You must be able to show you have enough money to support yourself and your dependants, unless you have arranged employment in Canada. This means you need to have funds from CAN$11,115 (\u00a36,968) for one family member, to CAN$29,414 for seven or more family members. You will also need to pass a medical exam.The UK state pension is payable in Canada, but unfortunately you will not get annual increases in benefit once you have ceased to be resident in the UK. This means your benefit will stay at the same rate as when you left the UK.You need only routine vaccinations, though Hepatitis B is recommended, as well as rabies if you are likely to be involved in any activities that might bring you into direct contact with bats, carnivores and other mammals.What airport will you arrive at? Depends where you're heading. Ottawa is the capital, but the largest city is Toronto \u2013 either are likely first stops.Local currency The Canadian dollar. On 12 NOvember 2012 \u00a31 is $1.59.How do you spot a cab? Many cabs are yellow, like New York taxis, but there are just as many cabs of other colours.Price of a hotel room Depends on the season and where you are, but anything from \u00a350-\u00a3150 for a three-star hotel. For example, in November the three-star Ramada Downtown Vancouver is charging \u00a352 a night compared to \u00a3103 at the three-star Ramada Downtown Calgary. Hotels.com put the average price at \u00a3105 in the first half of 2012.Price of a house About $750,000 for a three-bed house in Vancouver. According to Numbeo, the price per square metre for an apartment in Toronto city centre is $6,234.31, dropping to $3,767.37 in the suburbs.Price of a pint of milk: $1.13.What language do most people speak? Canadian English and Canadian French.What tax will you pay? Federal tax rates are 15% on the first $42,707 of taxable income; 22% on the next $42,707 of taxable income (ie, more than 42,707 up to $85,414); 26% on the next $46,992 of taxable income (up to\u00a0$132,406); and 29% on income in excess of $132,406. There are also lower, provincial tax rates which you can view at the Canada Revenue Agency's website.How long will it take to send a letter home? Up to two weeks, but five-10 days if you're lucky.\u2022 The Canuck language throws up some interesting definitions: suckers are lollipops; noodles means pasta; a loonie is a dollar; a parkade is a multi-storey car park; a gas bar is the petrol station; and hydro means electricity (as in hydro-electric).\u2022 Ice hockey, known simply as hockey in Canada, and lacrosse are the country's national sports.\u2022 Mail is not delivered on Saturdays in Canada.\u2022 Winnie the Pooh originally comes from Canada. Well, sort of. AA Milne's son Christopher Robin visited London zoo and fell in love with a bear that had been exported from Winnipeg in Canada.\u2022 Famous Canadians include Pamela Anderson, Leonard Cohen, Avril Lavigne, Keanu Reeves and Jim Carrey.Karen Brooks, 27, and her partner Nic Ollier, 26, moved to Whistler in October 2010 after completing a winter sports season at the resort in 2008-09. \"Nic and I did a winter season and we fell in love with the place,\" Brooks says. \"The people, the outdoor lifestyle and breathtaking scenery: we came back for a more permanent stay.\" Ollier adds: \"There are endless adventures to be had and never a dull day. You can't decide whether to go mountain biking, hiking, swimming in the lake, fishing or all of the above.\"The two were living in Surrey when they decided to migrate. Brooks now works in sales for an adventure tour operator called The Adventure Group, while Ollier works as a snowmobile tour guide in winter and a quad bike tour guide in summer, providing backcountry tours just south of Whistler village.\"The weather is a big factor in why we like it here \u2013 the snowy winters and hot summers,\" Brooks says.\"I also feel like I'm surrounded by like-minded people, and the scenery blows my mind continually,\" Ollier says. \"The more time you spend here there more things you discover and the more a part of everything you feel.\"The couple say it is easy to meet other expats in Whistler because it draws in people from all over the world, but many of the Brits they meet are only there temporarily. \"That's typical of resort life and doesn't reflect the rest of British Columbia,\" Ollier explains.If the pair were to give one piece of advice for people about to make the same move it would be to \"try and establish as much as you can before you leave, but accept it will take a while to find the right job and an affordable place to live. You need patience to cope with the immigration system \u2013 it's very confusing, slow and frustrating.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in Canada? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"Canada\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to Canada in the comments section. ", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance", "Money"], "title": "A UK's expat's guide to Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-28T09:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When Julilly is snatched away from her mother's clutches and sent into the Deep South to work on the cotton plantations, she is mortified. She meets Liza, they soon become firm friends and they secretly talk about the freedom land together, and there dream to one day reach there.When she is finally given the chance by a member of the Underground Railway she leaves with Liza to journey up the whole of America. But the slave catchers and dogs will soon be after them; will they escape the hate and wrath of ol' Sims? Or will they get many a whipping for their so-called evil ways?This book has all the qualities that you could want: adventure, tragic, excitement and suspense. This heart-warming tale of a slaves journey to freedom will blow your mind away with how hard life was back then and the extent one girl will go to, to save her friends and to get back with her mother. I recommend this book to anyone who loves history and who also loves adventure, this book is for girls and boys and anyone from the age of 9-14. I give this book a 100/10 \u2013 you can't get better than this!!Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Adventure (children and teens)", "Historical fiction (children and teens)"], "title": "Underground to Canada by Barbara Smucker - review"},{"date": "2012-11-28T15:21:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ipswich might be a long way from Ontario, but the distance will shrink in just over a year when Alecky Blythe and Adam Cork's verbatim musical London Road, an unlikely hit at London's National theatre, receives its Canadian premiere.The musical, which opened in 2011 inside the NT's smallest space and went on to win best musical at the Critics' Circle awards, will receive a new production by the Canadian Stage Company under the direction of Jackie Maxwell, artistic director of the Shaw Festival theatre in Ontario. After opening on 19 January 2014, the production will run for three weeks.The musical, originally directed by Rufus Norris, is based on the responses of local residents to the serial killings that took place in Ipswich in late 2006 and was the subject of some controversy prior to its world premiere in April 2011. It was subsequently revived in the much bigger Olivier auditorium last summer, during the tricky Olympic period.London Road will be joined in the Canadian Stage season by another British production, Akram Khan's Desh, which started life at Sadler's Wells six months afterwards. Guardian dance critic Judith Mackrell described Khan's piece as \"the most urgent, beautiful and confident work of his career\"; high praise for a man who was involved in Peter Brook's Mahabharata, and who has run his own company since 2000. Khan played an integral part in the Olympic opening ceremony, dancing to Emile Sande's rendition of Abide with Me.The other two productions of international note headed for CSC next year are a reimagined staging of Robert Lepage's 1980 piece Needles and Opium \u2013 a look at the relationship between addiction and art \u2013 and Venus in Fur, a Broadway success in 2011 for playwright David Ives, which is also being adapted for film by Roman Polanski.", "tags": ["Musicals", "Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "London Road wends it way to Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-27T01:37:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The surprise appointment of Bank of Canada governor, Mark Carney, to lead the Bank of England has been received as a compliment and a loss in Canada.In September 2008, as interbank capital liquidity hoarding precipitated a financial tsunami from which Europe is still reeling, Carney ensured liquidity for borrowers through the central bank, cut interest rates to a historically low 0.25%, kept inflation under control, and ensured Canada borrowed at the best possible rates.The 47-year-old Harvard and Oxford educated Canadian economist has a mission to reform the banking system so that taxpayers never again have to bail out \"too big to fail\" banks.Former Canadian prime minister and minister of finance, Paul Martin, said that he was \"very disappointed\" to see Carney leave Canada \"He has been an outstanding governor of the bank of Canada as well as a very progressive head of the financial stability board.\" The \"silver lining\", said Martin, is that Carney's appointment \"bodes well for the economies in Canada, the United States, China and elsewhere\".\"If what you're looking for is somebody who understands of the inner working of the banking system domestically, but at the same time its interconnections globally, and what has to be done globally, I think you've got a very, very strong person,\" said Martin.Duncan Cameron, from the Centre for Global Political Economy at Simon Fraser University, said Carney \"has demonstrated in the Canadian context a quite uncanny ability to get things done under difficult circumstances\", adding that \"as governor he hasn't made any wrong steps\".Following the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, many Canadian banks and financial institutions held worthless mortgaged-backed bonds while other major players held none. Carney managed to negotiate a bailout settlement to share the losses.Carney \"turned his back on a very lucrative career in private banking to go into a public service job where his first job was to try and bang heads together and try and remedy an almost impossible situation\", said Cameron.\"A lot of people wouldn't want to get up in the morning if they had to face that kind of situation and he seems to have thrived on it.\"The Canadian banking system, which is made up of five large banks, has been ranked the most sound in the world five years in a row by the World Economic Forum, which praised it for being \"well-capitalised, well-managed and well-regulated\".Canadian banks make loans on a case-by-case basis, depending on the creditor's ability to repay. Many of the high-risk and complex financial instruments that exacerbated the subprime mortgage fiasco in the US do not exist in Canada. This prudence has proven key to Canada's performance compared to its neighbour, which jumped on to the exotic, and ultimately toxic, trades bandwagon peddled by Wall Street and City of London.While it is often boasted that after the 2008 financial crisis, Canadian banks didn't need a bailout, the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives has argued that Canadian banks profited from a secret bailout in the form if $114bn (7% of Canada's GDP) in emergency liquidity from the US Federal Reserve, the Bank of Canada and the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, from October 2008 until well into 2010. The same thinktank has warned against excessive bragging about Canadian banks, calling it a \"myth of Canadian exceptionalism\" and insisting they are not \"immune to the temptations and threats that compromised banks in Europe, the US and around the world\".", "tags": ["Mark Carney", "Canada", "Bank of England", "Business", "UK news", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mark Carney's appointment: the view from Canada"},{"date": "2012-12-18T12:23:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Personal Genome Project, an initiative to generate DNA sequence from the genomes of the general public, has been around since 2006. Spearheaded by DNA sequence guru Dr George Church, its premise is simple:We believe individuals from the general public have a vital role to play in making personal genomes useful. We are recruiting volunteers who are willing to share their genome sequence and many types of personal information with the research community and the general public, so that together we will be better able to advance our understanding of genetic and environmental contributions to human traits.In other words, it's about engaging the general public in genome research, to provide background data that can help in all kinds of medical research. Kind of like crowd-sourced genomics.All of this was kicked up a notch recently by the launch of the Canadian arm of the PGP, nicely profiled in a series of articles in the daily newspaper The Globe and Mail. The lead article by veteran science reporter Carolyn Abraham, entitled Would you make your DNA and health data public if it may help cure disease?, tells the story of participant \"Canuck 1\" \u2013 genetic counsellor Jill Davies. It's a fascinating read, and the Globe has come up with a series of additional online materials, including some background on what makes up a genome, the PGP Canada's consent form, and an online poll where readers can weigh in on whether they would have their genome sequenced or not. At the time of writing, 80% of respondents had voted \"yes\".So how does all of this help medical research? Not long ago, my fellow Occam's Corner blogger Erika Cule wrote about her impressions of the recent American Society of Human Genetics conference. The closing remark from ASHG, which she reports in her blog post, was \"Ability to identify variation is no longer the limiting step in our field\". I'm not convinced that's strictly accurate \u2013 after all, genome sequencing, while surprisingly straightforward, is still a fairly big undertaking, and the analysis of the resulting data is not yet the province of desktop computers. But the gist of the message rings true \u2013 genome scientists can now generate data at an unprecedented rate, with essentially off-the-shelf (albeit expensive) instruments capable of producing a human genome project's worth of data in mere days. Using this data to identify the variation between one individual human and the next is the centre point of genetic medicine. And with the near-future promise of the \"$1,000 genome\", there's every hope that genome sequencing might pave the way to routine, genetically personalised medicine. Without getting into a long debate about the origins of this \"$1,000 genome\" term, I think most people would attribute its popularisation to a pair of articles from 2006: one by Church, published in Scientific American, and a second editorial by Robert F Service in Science.Early this year, Erika Check outlined the path forward on the Nature News Blog, in her article The $1,000 genome: are we there yet? (spoiler \u2013 the answer's \"not quite\"). Even the Archon Genomics X Prize has backed off a bit, listing in its guidelines a minimum requirement that genomes be sequenced for a maximum (are you following this?) of $10,000 each, but with a \"best in class\" target of, you guessed it, $1,000.Although that $1,000 figure seems to have been chosen simply because it's a conveniently small, round number, it's in the right ballpark to be useful. The US National Institutes of Health's Genetics Home Reference tells us that genetic tests vary in cost between about $100 and $2,000 each in the US; those numbers are about right for most genetic tests in Canada, too. Imagine, then, a $1,000 genome sequence \u2013 if done right, it could potentially replace the need for every genetic test you would need for the rest of your life (with the exception of tests for a specific tissue \u2013 like cancers). Although I was recently reminded that this optimistic view has to be tempered with the inevitable licensing restrictions around existing tests that would be revealed by a whole genome sequence, it seems likely that big savings to healthcare systems could be realised. And we're pretty much in the right place, scientifically, to be able to do the experiment to find out. So much so that my own institute has also kicked off an ambitious Centre for Genetic Medicine \u2013 in part to answer the question of what impacts can be made through clinical whole-genome sequencing. Can we have positive impact on patients, identifying life-altering conditions far in advance of the presence of symptoms? Can this be done in a rational way based on prioritising certain patients, or is it better to test everyone? What impact on the economics of healthcare might this have here in Canada, and in other places in the world? These are all questions we are now in a position to ask, and potentially answer in the very near future.Which brings us back to the PGP. Research studies have always needed control data \u2013 information that we can compare with data from patients with a specific disease or disorder. Frequently, obtaining these data can be more difficult than data from patients, for whom mechanisms to enrol in research studies are already in place. Personal genomes from the general public have great promise to provide a rich source of fully-consented information that is openly available to the research community. Yes, it may be biased towards people who are curious and able to take advantage of the project (questions well addressed in the Globe article), and there is potential for abuse of this information, as outlined by project ethicist Dr Michael Szego in an accompanying video. But my hypothesis, for now, is that there will be immense value in the PGP, whether from Canada or similar studies in other countries. And I believe that we're now in a position to ask the question, do the experiment, and seek the answers to these important questions.", "tags": ["Genetics", "Medical research", "Science"], "title": "The human genome \u2013 Canada gets personal | Richard Wintle"},{"date": "2012-11-29T08:45:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, the world's second-largest country, was colonised by the British and French in the 15th century, meaning that today it is officially bilingual, with almost a quarter of citizens speaking French (centred largely around francophone Quebec). This isn't the only reason Canada is popular \u2013 modern cities nestled among stunning scenery make for a vibrant, outdoors lifestyle.Almost everyone has access to high quality healthcare in Canada, which makes it attractive to expats, and there is an incredible variety of regions to see and explore. These range from cities such as Toronto (pronounced \"Tronno\" by the locals), Montreal and Vancouver (where most expats congregate), to the world-class ski resorts of Whistler and Calgary.Canada is a vast expanse, where locals and visitors alike can holiday in the country every year without getting bored. A trip to see the northern lights in Newfoundland and whale-watching off Vancouver are musts.If you settle in Canada you should feel welcome \u2013 the country has one of the highest per capita immigration rates in the world. According to the Canadian immigration service the country is looking to attract between 240,000 and 265,000 new permanent residents in 2012 alone.You'll probably need the most common visa \u2013 the skilled workers and professionals visa \u2013 but in order to get one you'll have to prove you will be an advantage to the economy (Quebec has its own regional visa of this type). You'll be scored on criteria such as age and occupation, with the holy grail of 67 points needed to be considered for entry. Failing that there are visas for entrepreneurs and investors, visas for people who have skills that are needed in a specific province, and family visas for those joining a spouse or family member.Check out the Canadian Citizenship and Immigration service's Visa Wizard to see whether you're eligible.You must be able to show you have enough money to support yourself and your dependants, unless you have arranged employment in Canada. This means you need to have funds from CAN$11,115 (\u00a36,968) for one family member, to CAN$29,414 for seven or more family members. You will also need to pass a medical exam.The UK state pension is payable in Canada, but unfortunately you will not get annual increases in benefit once you have ceased to be resident in the UK. This means your benefit will stay at the same rate as when you left the UK.You need only routine vaccinations, though Hepatitis B is recommended, as well as rabies if you are likely to be involved in any activities that might bring you into direct contact with bats, carnivores and other mammals.What airport will you arrive at? Depends where you're heading. Ottawa is the capital, but the largest city is Toronto \u2013 either are likely first stops.Local currency The Canadian dollar. On 12 NOvember 2012 \u00a31 is $1.59.How do you spot a cab? Many cabs are yellow, like New York taxis, but there are just as many cabs of other colours.Price of a hotel room Depends on the season and where you are, but anything from \u00a350-\u00a3150 for a three-star hotel. For example, in November the three-star Ramada Downtown Vancouver is charging \u00a352 a night compared to \u00a3103 at the three-star Ramada Downtown Calgary. Hotels.com put the average price at \u00a3105 in the first half of 2012.Price of a house About $750,000 for a three-bed house in Vancouver. According to Numbeo, the price per square metre for an apartment in Toronto city centre is $6,234.31, dropping to $3,767.37 in the suburbs.Price of a pint of milk: $1.13.What language do most people speak? Canadian English and Canadian French.What tax will you pay? Federal tax rates are 15% on the first $42,707 of taxable income; 22% on the next $42,707 of taxable income (ie, more than 42,707 up to $85,414); 26% on the next $46,992 of taxable income (up to\u00a0$132,406); and 29% on income in excess of $132,406. There are also lower, provincial tax rates which you can view at the Canada Revenue Agency's website.How long will it take to send a letter home? Up to two weeks, but five-10 days if you're lucky.\u2022 The Canuck language throws up some interesting definitions: suckers are lollipops; noodles means pasta; a loonie is a dollar; a parkade is a multi-storey car park; a gas bar is the petrol station; and hydro means electricity (as in hydro-electric).\u2022 Ice hockey, known simply as hockey in Canada, and lacrosse are the country's national sports.\u2022 Mail is not delivered on Saturdays in Canada.\u2022 Winnie the Pooh originally comes from Canada. Well, sort of. AA Milne's son Christopher Robin visited London zoo and fell in love with a bear that had been exported from Winnipeg in Canada.\u2022 Famous Canadians include Pamela Anderson, Leonard Cohen, Avril Lavigne, Keanu Reeves and Jim Carrey.Karen Brooks, 27, and her partner Nic Ollier, 26, moved to Whistler in October 2010 after completing a winter sports season at the resort in 2008-09. \"Nic and I did a winter season and we fell in love with the place,\" Brooks says. \"The people, the outdoor lifestyle and breathtaking scenery: we came back for a more permanent stay.\" Ollier adds: \"There are endless adventures to be had and never a dull day. You can't decide whether to go mountain biking, hiking, swimming in the lake, fishing or all of the above.\"The two were living in Surrey when they decided to migrate. Brooks now works in sales for an adventure tour operator called The Adventure Group, while Ollier works as a snowmobile tour guide in winter and a quad bike tour guide in summer, providing backcountry tours just south of Whistler village.\"The weather is a big factor in why we like it here \u2013 the snowy winters and hot summers,\" Brooks says.\"I also feel like I'm surrounded by like-minded people, and the scenery blows my mind continually,\" Ollier says. \"The more time you spend here there more things you discover and the more a part of everything you feel.\"The couple say it is easy to meet other expats in Whistler because it draws in people from all over the world, but many of the Brits they meet are only there temporarily. \"That's typical of resort life and doesn't reflect the rest of British Columbia,\" Ollier explains.If the pair were to give one piece of advice for people about to make the same move it would be to \"try and establish as much as you can before you leave, but accept it will take a while to find the right job and an affordable place to live. You need patience to cope with the immigration system \u2013 it's very confusing, slow and frustrating.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in Canada? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"Canada\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to Canada in the comments section. ", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance", "Money"], "title": "A UK's expat's guide to Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-28T09:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When Julilly is snatched away from her mother's clutches and sent into the Deep South to work on the cotton plantations, she is mortified. She meets Liza, they soon become firm friends and they secretly talk about the freedom land together, and there dream to one day reach there.When she is finally given the chance by a member of the Underground Railway she leaves with Liza to journey up the whole of America. But the slave catchers and dogs will soon be after them; will they escape the hate and wrath of ol' Sims? Or will they get many a whipping for their so-called evil ways?This book has all the qualities that you could want: adventure, tragic, excitement and suspense. This heart-warming tale of a slaves journey to freedom will blow your mind away with how hard life was back then and the extent one girl will go to, to save her friends and to get back with her mother. I recommend this book to anyone who loves history and who also loves adventure, this book is for girls and boys and anyone from the age of 9-14. I give this book a 100/10 \u2013 you can't get better than this!!Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Adventure (children and teens)", "Historical fiction (children and teens)"], "title": "Underground to Canada by Barbara Smucker - review"},{"date": "2012-11-28T15:21:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ipswich might be a long way from Ontario, but the distance will shrink in just over a year when Alecky Blythe and Adam Cork's verbatim musical London Road, an unlikely hit at London's National theatre, receives its Canadian premiere.The musical, which opened in 2011 inside the NT's smallest space and went on to win best musical at the Critics' Circle awards, will receive a new production by the Canadian Stage Company under the direction of Jackie Maxwell, artistic director of the Shaw Festival theatre in Ontario. After opening on 19 January 2014, the production will run for three weeks.The musical, originally directed by Rufus Norris, is based on the responses of local residents to the serial killings that took place in Ipswich in late 2006 and was the subject of some controversy prior to its world premiere in April 2011. It was subsequently revived in the much bigger Olivier auditorium last summer, during the tricky Olympic period.London Road will be joined in the Canadian Stage season by another British production, Akram Khan's Desh, which started life at Sadler's Wells six months afterwards. Guardian dance critic Judith Mackrell described Khan's piece as \"the most urgent, beautiful and confident work of his career\"; high praise for a man who was involved in Peter Brook's Mahabharata, and who has run his own company since 2000. Khan played an integral part in the Olympic opening ceremony, dancing to Emile Sande's rendition of Abide with Me.The other two productions of international note headed for CSC next year are a reimagined staging of Robert Lepage's 1980 piece Needles and Opium \u2013 a look at the relationship between addiction and art \u2013 and Venus in Fur, a Broadway success in 2011 for playwright David Ives, which is also being adapted for film by Roman Polanski.", "tags": ["Musicals", "Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "London Road wends it way to Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-27T01:37:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The surprise appointment of Bank of Canada governor, Mark Carney, to lead the Bank of England has been received as a compliment and a loss in Canada.In September 2008, as interbank capital liquidity hoarding precipitated a financial tsunami from which Europe is still reeling, Carney ensured liquidity for borrowers through the central bank, cut interest rates to a historically low 0.25%, kept inflation under control, and ensured Canada borrowed at the best possible rates.The 47-year-old Harvard and Oxford educated Canadian economist has a mission to reform the banking system so that taxpayers never again have to bail out \"too big to fail\" banks.Former Canadian prime minister and minister of finance, Paul Martin, said that he was \"very disappointed\" to see Carney leave Canada \"He has been an outstanding governor of the bank of Canada as well as a very progressive head of the financial stability board.\" The \"silver lining\", said Martin, is that Carney's appointment \"bodes well for the economies in Canada, the United States, China and elsewhere\".\"If what you're looking for is somebody who understands of the inner working of the banking system domestically, but at the same time its interconnections globally, and what has to be done globally, I think you've got a very, very strong person,\" said Martin.Duncan Cameron, from the Centre for Global Political Economy at Simon Fraser University, said Carney \"has demonstrated in the Canadian context a quite uncanny ability to get things done under difficult circumstances\", adding that \"as governor he hasn't made any wrong steps\".Following the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, many Canadian banks and financial institutions held worthless mortgaged-backed bonds while other major players held none. Carney managed to negotiate a bailout settlement to share the losses.Carney \"turned his back on a very lucrative career in private banking to go into a public service job where his first job was to try and bang heads together and try and remedy an almost impossible situation\", said Cameron.\"A lot of people wouldn't want to get up in the morning if they had to face that kind of situation and he seems to have thrived on it.\"The Canadian banking system, which is made up of five large banks, has been ranked the most sound in the world five years in a row by the World Economic Forum, which praised it for being \"well-capitalised, well-managed and well-regulated\".Canadian banks make loans on a case-by-case basis, depending on the creditor's ability to repay. Many of the high-risk and complex financial instruments that exacerbated the subprime mortgage fiasco in the US do not exist in Canada. This prudence has proven key to Canada's performance compared to its neighbour, which jumped on to the exotic, and ultimately toxic, trades bandwagon peddled by Wall Street and City of London.While it is often boasted that after the 2008 financial crisis, Canadian banks didn't need a bailout, the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives has argued that Canadian banks profited from a secret bailout in the form if $114bn (7% of Canada's GDP) in emergency liquidity from the US Federal Reserve, the Bank of Canada and the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, from October 2008 until well into 2010. The same thinktank has warned against excessive bragging about Canadian banks, calling it a \"myth of Canadian exceptionalism\" and insisting they are not \"immune to the temptations and threats that compromised banks in Europe, the US and around the world\".", "tags": ["Mark Carney", "Canada", "Bank of England", "Business", "UK news", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mark Carney's appointment: the view from Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-02T09:46:05Z", "country": "canada", "content": "As the prize formerly known as the Orange continues its hunt for a headline sponsor, it's interesting to see that Canada and Australia have both just launched women-only literary prizes.The Stella prize, in Australia, is named after Stella Miles Franklin, the esteemed novelist whose bequest founded the country's most prestigious literary award, the Miles Franklin, which came under memorable attack last year for being a \"sausage fest\". No female author had made the shortlist for the second time in three years, and just 13 out of the award's 50 winners had been women.That changed this year when Anna Funder took the prize, but a group of women in the arts have founded the Stella award nonetheless, to \"raise the profile of women's writing\" with a prize pot of A$50,000 for the best work of fiction or non-fiction by a woman.In Canada, meanwhile, trade magazine Quill & Quire reports that the Rosalind prize is being set up. It's just for fiction, and it comes about due to the disparity in numbers discovered by the organisation Canadian Women in the Literary Arts: although looking at submissions for the Governor General's Literary Awards, \"women and men published books in near equal numbers in 2011 with 513 books published by men and 523 books published by women\", far fewer books by women were reviewed in the press (you can see the details here).\"I thought things were fine and equal here in Canada. I didn't realise the disparity until looking at the hard numbers,\" publisher Janice Zawerbny told Quill & Quire. \"It was really disheartening. Why is this happening in this day and age? It became the impetus or the rallying cry, sitting in the auditorium.\"The establishment of the Rosalind prize follows the discontinuation, in 2008, of Canada's Marian Engel award for female writers. There's an intriguing piece in the Globe and Mail by Leah McLaren about this.\"In Canada, women writers have been playing with the big boys for some time now,\" she writes. \"This is why, in 2008, when I was on the authors' committee of the Writers' Trust of Canada, we discontinued the Marian Engel award (for a woman writer in mid-career) and created the Engel/Findley award to honour a body of work by any established Canadian writer, male or female. Assessing the literary landscape, the committee decided that a gendered prize was no longer needed \u2013 and we were right. It was a wise choice, and one that reflected the progress (if not outright dominance) of female Canadian writers on a level playing-field.\"Clearly, not everyone in Canada agrees that there's a level playing-field these days. But as we in the UK discuss whether or not we still need the Women's prize for fiction \u2013 Hilary Mantel, after all, is fresh from her second Booker win \u2013 it's intriguing to note that other countries are starting their own versions.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Women's prize for fiction", "Books", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Women", "Life and style", "Equality", "Society", "Canada", "Australia news", "Americas", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Corporate sponsorship"], "title": "Canada and Australia launch women's literary prizes"},{"date": "2012-12-18T12:23:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Personal Genome Project, an initiative to generate DNA sequence from the genomes of the general public, has been around since 2006. Spearheaded by DNA sequence guru Dr George Church, its premise is simple:We believe individuals from the general public have a vital role to play in making personal genomes useful. We are recruiting volunteers who are willing to share their genome sequence and many types of personal information with the research community and the general public, so that together we will be better able to advance our understanding of genetic and environmental contributions to human traits.In other words, it's about engaging the general public in genome research, to provide background data that can help in all kinds of medical research. Kind of like crowd-sourced genomics.All of this was kicked up a notch recently by the launch of the Canadian arm of the PGP, nicely profiled in a series of articles in the daily newspaper The Globe and Mail. The lead article by veteran science reporter Carolyn Abraham, entitled Would you make your DNA and health data public if it may help cure disease?, tells the story of participant \"Canuck 1\" \u2013 genetic counsellor Jill Davies. It's a fascinating read, and the Globe has come up with a series of additional online materials, including some background on what makes up a genome, the PGP Canada's consent form, and an online poll where readers can weigh in on whether they would have their genome sequenced or not. At the time of writing, 80% of respondents had voted \"yes\".So how does all of this help medical research? Not long ago, my fellow Occam's Corner blogger Erika Cule wrote about her impressions of the recent American Society of Human Genetics conference. The closing remark from ASHG, which she reports in her blog post, was \"Ability to identify variation is no longer the limiting step in our field\". I'm not convinced that's strictly accurate \u2013 after all, genome sequencing, while surprisingly straightforward, is still a fairly big undertaking, and the analysis of the resulting data is not yet the province of desktop computers. But the gist of the message rings true \u2013 genome scientists can now generate data at an unprecedented rate, with essentially off-the-shelf (albeit expensive) instruments capable of producing a human genome project's worth of data in mere days. Using this data to identify the variation between one individual human and the next is the centre point of genetic medicine. And with the near-future promise of the \"$1,000 genome\", there's every hope that genome sequencing might pave the way to routine, genetically personalised medicine. Without getting into a long debate about the origins of this \"$1,000 genome\" term, I think most people would attribute its popularisation to a pair of articles from 2006: one by Church, published in Scientific American, and a second editorial by Robert F Service in Science.Early this year, Erika Check outlined the path forward on the Nature News Blog, in her article The $1,000 genome: are we there yet? (spoiler \u2013 the answer's \"not quite\"). Even the Archon Genomics X Prize has backed off a bit, listing in its guidelines a minimum requirement that genomes be sequenced for a maximum (are you following this?) of $10,000 each, but with a \"best in class\" target of, you guessed it, $1,000.Although that $1,000 figure seems to have been chosen simply because it's a conveniently small, round number, it's in the right ballpark to be useful. The US National Institutes of Health's Genetics Home Reference tells us that genetic tests vary in cost between about $100 and $2,000 each in the US; those numbers are about right for most genetic tests in Canada, too. Imagine, then, a $1,000 genome sequence \u2013 if done right, it could potentially replace the need for every genetic test you would need for the rest of your life (with the exception of tests for a specific tissue \u2013 like cancers). Although I was recently reminded that this optimistic view has to be tempered with the inevitable licensing restrictions around existing tests that would be revealed by a whole genome sequence, it seems likely that big savings to healthcare systems could be realised. And we're pretty much in the right place, scientifically, to be able to do the experiment to find out. So much so that my own institute has also kicked off an ambitious Centre for Genetic Medicine \u2013 in part to answer the question of what impacts can be made through clinical whole-genome sequencing. Can we have positive impact on patients, identifying life-altering conditions far in advance of the presence of symptoms? Can this be done in a rational way based on prioritising certain patients, or is it better to test everyone? What impact on the economics of healthcare might this have here in Canada, and in other places in the world? These are all questions we are now in a position to ask, and potentially answer in the very near future.Which brings us back to the PGP. Research studies have always needed control data \u2013 information that we can compare with data from patients with a specific disease or disorder. Frequently, obtaining these data can be more difficult than data from patients, for whom mechanisms to enrol in research studies are already in place. Personal genomes from the general public have great promise to provide a rich source of fully-consented information that is openly available to the research community. Yes, it may be biased towards people who are curious and able to take advantage of the project (questions well addressed in the Globe article), and there is potential for abuse of this information, as outlined by project ethicist Dr Michael Szego in an accompanying video. But my hypothesis, for now, is that there will be immense value in the PGP, whether from Canada or similar studies in other countries. And I believe that we're now in a position to ask the question, do the experiment, and seek the answers to these important questions.", "tags": ["Genetics", "Medical research", "Science"], "title": "The human genome \u2013 Canada gets personal | Richard Wintle"},{"date": "2012-11-29T08:45:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, the world's second-largest country, was colonised by the British and French in the 15th century, meaning that today it is officially bilingual, with almost a quarter of citizens speaking French (centred largely around francophone Quebec). This isn't the only reason Canada is popular \u2013 modern cities nestled among stunning scenery make for a vibrant, outdoors lifestyle.Almost everyone has access to high quality healthcare in Canada, which makes it attractive to expats, and there is an incredible variety of regions to see and explore. These range from cities such as Toronto (pronounced \"Tronno\" by the locals), Montreal and Vancouver (where most expats congregate), to the world-class ski resorts of Whistler and Calgary.Canada is a vast expanse, where locals and visitors alike can holiday in the country every year without getting bored. A trip to see the northern lights in Newfoundland and whale-watching off Vancouver are musts.If you settle in Canada you should feel welcome \u2013 the country has one of the highest per capita immigration rates in the world. According to the Canadian immigration service the country is looking to attract between 240,000 and 265,000 new permanent residents in 2012 alone.You'll probably need the most common visa \u2013 the skilled workers and professionals visa \u2013 but in order to get one you'll have to prove you will be an advantage to the economy (Quebec has its own regional visa of this type). You'll be scored on criteria such as age and occupation, with the holy grail of 67 points needed to be considered for entry. Failing that there are visas for entrepreneurs and investors, visas for people who have skills that are needed in a specific province, and family visas for those joining a spouse or family member.Check out the Canadian Citizenship and Immigration service's Visa Wizard to see whether you're eligible.You must be able to show you have enough money to support yourself and your dependants, unless you have arranged employment in Canada. This means you need to have funds from CAN$11,115 (\u00a36,968) for one family member, to CAN$29,414 for seven or more family members. You will also need to pass a medical exam.The UK state pension is payable in Canada, but unfortunately you will not get annual increases in benefit once you have ceased to be resident in the UK. This means your benefit will stay at the same rate as when you left the UK.You need only routine vaccinations, though Hepatitis B is recommended, as well as rabies if you are likely to be involved in any activities that might bring you into direct contact with bats, carnivores and other mammals.What airport will you arrive at? Depends where you're heading. Ottawa is the capital, but the largest city is Toronto \u2013 either are likely first stops.Local currency The Canadian dollar. On 12 NOvember 2012 \u00a31 is $1.59.How do you spot a cab? Many cabs are yellow, like New York taxis, but there are just as many cabs of other colours.Price of a hotel room Depends on the season and where you are, but anything from \u00a350-\u00a3150 for a three-star hotel. For example, in November the three-star Ramada Downtown Vancouver is charging \u00a352 a night compared to \u00a3103 at the three-star Ramada Downtown Calgary. Hotels.com put the average price at \u00a3105 in the first half of 2012.Price of a house About $750,000 for a three-bed house in Vancouver. According to Numbeo, the price per square metre for an apartment in Toronto city centre is $6,234.31, dropping to $3,767.37 in the suburbs.Price of a pint of milk: $1.13.What language do most people speak? Canadian English and Canadian French.What tax will you pay? Federal tax rates are 15% on the first $42,707 of taxable income; 22% on the next $42,707 of taxable income (ie, more than 42,707 up to $85,414); 26% on the next $46,992 of taxable income (up to\u00a0$132,406); and 29% on income in excess of $132,406. There are also lower, provincial tax rates which you can view at the Canada Revenue Agency's website.How long will it take to send a letter home? Up to two weeks, but five-10 days if you're lucky.\u2022 The Canuck language throws up some interesting definitions: suckers are lollipops; noodles means pasta; a loonie is a dollar; a parkade is a multi-storey car park; a gas bar is the petrol station; and hydro means electricity (as in hydro-electric).\u2022 Ice hockey, known simply as hockey in Canada, and lacrosse are the country's national sports.\u2022 Mail is not delivered on Saturdays in Canada.\u2022 Winnie the Pooh originally comes from Canada. Well, sort of. AA Milne's son Christopher Robin visited London zoo and fell in love with a bear that had been exported from Winnipeg in Canada.\u2022 Famous Canadians include Pamela Anderson, Leonard Cohen, Avril Lavigne, Keanu Reeves and Jim Carrey.Karen Brooks, 27, and her partner Nic Ollier, 26, moved to Whistler in October 2010 after completing a winter sports season at the resort in 2008-09. \"Nic and I did a winter season and we fell in love with the place,\" Brooks says. \"The people, the outdoor lifestyle and breathtaking scenery: we came back for a more permanent stay.\" Ollier adds: \"There are endless adventures to be had and never a dull day. You can't decide whether to go mountain biking, hiking, swimming in the lake, fishing or all of the above.\"The two were living in Surrey when they decided to migrate. Brooks now works in sales for an adventure tour operator called The Adventure Group, while Ollier works as a snowmobile tour guide in winter and a quad bike tour guide in summer, providing backcountry tours just south of Whistler village.\"The weather is a big factor in why we like it here \u2013 the snowy winters and hot summers,\" Brooks says.\"I also feel like I'm surrounded by like-minded people, and the scenery blows my mind continually,\" Ollier says. \"The more time you spend here there more things you discover and the more a part of everything you feel.\"The couple say it is easy to meet other expats in Whistler because it draws in people from all over the world, but many of the Brits they meet are only there temporarily. \"That's typical of resort life and doesn't reflect the rest of British Columbia,\" Ollier explains.If the pair were to give one piece of advice for people about to make the same move it would be to \"try and establish as much as you can before you leave, but accept it will take a while to find the right job and an affordable place to live. You need patience to cope with the immigration system \u2013 it's very confusing, slow and frustrating.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in Canada? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"Canada\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to Canada in the comments section. ", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance", "Money"], "title": "A UK's expat's guide to Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-28T09:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When Julilly is snatched away from her mother's clutches and sent into the Deep South to work on the cotton plantations, she is mortified. She meets Liza, they soon become firm friends and they secretly talk about the freedom land together, and there dream to one day reach there.When she is finally given the chance by a member of the Underground Railway she leaves with Liza to journey up the whole of America. But the slave catchers and dogs will soon be after them; will they escape the hate and wrath of ol' Sims? Or will they get many a whipping for their so-called evil ways?This book has all the qualities that you could want: adventure, tragic, excitement and suspense. This heart-warming tale of a slaves journey to freedom will blow your mind away with how hard life was back then and the extent one girl will go to, to save her friends and to get back with her mother. I recommend this book to anyone who loves history and who also loves adventure, this book is for girls and boys and anyone from the age of 9-14. I give this book a 100/10 \u2013 you can't get better than this!!Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Adventure (children and teens)", "Historical fiction (children and teens)"], "title": "Underground to Canada by Barbara Smucker - review"},{"date": "2012-11-28T15:21:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ipswich might be a long way from Ontario, but the distance will shrink in just over a year when Alecky Blythe and Adam Cork's verbatim musical London Road, an unlikely hit at London's National theatre, receives its Canadian premiere.The musical, which opened in 2011 inside the NT's smallest space and went on to win best musical at the Critics' Circle awards, will receive a new production by the Canadian Stage Company under the direction of Jackie Maxwell, artistic director of the Shaw Festival theatre in Ontario. After opening on 19 January 2014, the production will run for three weeks.The musical, originally directed by Rufus Norris, is based on the responses of local residents to the serial killings that took place in Ipswich in late 2006 and was the subject of some controversy prior to its world premiere in April 2011. It was subsequently revived in the much bigger Olivier auditorium last summer, during the tricky Olympic period.London Road will be joined in the Canadian Stage season by another British production, Akram Khan's Desh, which started life at Sadler's Wells six months afterwards. Guardian dance critic Judith Mackrell described Khan's piece as \"the most urgent, beautiful and confident work of his career\"; high praise for a man who was involved in Peter Brook's Mahabharata, and who has run his own company since 2000. Khan played an integral part in the Olympic opening ceremony, dancing to Emile Sande's rendition of Abide with Me.The other two productions of international note headed for CSC next year are a reimagined staging of Robert Lepage's 1980 piece Needles and Opium \u2013 a look at the relationship between addiction and art \u2013 and Venus in Fur, a Broadway success in 2011 for playwright David Ives, which is also being adapted for film by Roman Polanski.", "tags": ["Musicals", "Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "London Road wends it way to Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-27T01:37:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The surprise appointment of Bank of Canada governor, Mark Carney, to lead the Bank of England has been received as a compliment and a loss in Canada.In September 2008, as interbank capital liquidity hoarding precipitated a financial tsunami from which Europe is still reeling, Carney ensured liquidity for borrowers through the central bank, cut interest rates to a historically low 0.25%, kept inflation under control, and ensured Canada borrowed at the best possible rates.The 47-year-old Harvard and Oxford educated Canadian economist has a mission to reform the banking system so that taxpayers never again have to bail out \"too big to fail\" banks.Former Canadian prime minister and minister of finance, Paul Martin, said that he was \"very disappointed\" to see Carney leave Canada \"He has been an outstanding governor of the bank of Canada as well as a very progressive head of the financial stability board.\" The \"silver lining\", said Martin, is that Carney's appointment \"bodes well for the economies in Canada, the United States, China and elsewhere\".\"If what you're looking for is somebody who understands of the inner working of the banking system domestically, but at the same time its interconnections globally, and what has to be done globally, I think you've got a very, very strong person,\" said Martin.Duncan Cameron, from the Centre for Global Political Economy at Simon Fraser University, said Carney \"has demonstrated in the Canadian context a quite uncanny ability to get things done under difficult circumstances\", adding that \"as governor he hasn't made any wrong steps\".Following the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, many Canadian banks and financial institutions held worthless mortgaged-backed bonds while other major players held none. Carney managed to negotiate a bailout settlement to share the losses.Carney \"turned his back on a very lucrative career in private banking to go into a public service job where his first job was to try and bang heads together and try and remedy an almost impossible situation\", said Cameron.\"A lot of people wouldn't want to get up in the morning if they had to face that kind of situation and he seems to have thrived on it.\"The Canadian banking system, which is made up of five large banks, has been ranked the most sound in the world five years in a row by the World Economic Forum, which praised it for being \"well-capitalised, well-managed and well-regulated\".Canadian banks make loans on a case-by-case basis, depending on the creditor's ability to repay. Many of the high-risk and complex financial instruments that exacerbated the subprime mortgage fiasco in the US do not exist in Canada. This prudence has proven key to Canada's performance compared to its neighbour, which jumped on to the exotic, and ultimately toxic, trades bandwagon peddled by Wall Street and City of London.While it is often boasted that after the 2008 financial crisis, Canadian banks didn't need a bailout, the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives has argued that Canadian banks profited from a secret bailout in the form if $114bn (7% of Canada's GDP) in emergency liquidity from the US Federal Reserve, the Bank of Canada and the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, from October 2008 until well into 2010. The same thinktank has warned against excessive bragging about Canadian banks, calling it a \"myth of Canadian exceptionalism\" and insisting they are not \"immune to the temptations and threats that compromised banks in Europe, the US and around the world\".", "tags": ["Mark Carney", "Canada", "Bank of England", "Business", "UK news", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mark Carney's appointment: the view from Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-02T09:46:05Z", "country": "canada", "content": "As the prize formerly known as the Orange continues its hunt for a headline sponsor, it's interesting to see that Canada and Australia have both just launched women-only literary prizes.The Stella prize, in Australia, is named after Stella Miles Franklin, the esteemed novelist whose bequest founded the country's most prestigious literary award, the Miles Franklin, which came under memorable attack last year for being a \"sausage fest\". No female author had made the shortlist for the second time in three years, and just 13 out of the award's 50 winners had been women.That changed this year when Anna Funder took the prize, but a group of women in the arts have founded the Stella award nonetheless, to \"raise the profile of women's writing\" with a prize pot of A$50,000 for the best work of fiction or non-fiction by a woman.In Canada, meanwhile, trade magazine Quill & Quire reports that the Rosalind prize is being set up. It's just for fiction, and it comes about due to the disparity in numbers discovered by the organisation Canadian Women in the Literary Arts: although looking at submissions for the Governor General's Literary Awards, \"women and men published books in near equal numbers in 2011 with 513 books published by men and 523 books published by women\", far fewer books by women were reviewed in the press (you can see the details here).\"I thought things were fine and equal here in Canada. I didn't realise the disparity until looking at the hard numbers,\" publisher Janice Zawerbny told Quill & Quire. \"It was really disheartening. Why is this happening in this day and age? It became the impetus or the rallying cry, sitting in the auditorium.\"The establishment of the Rosalind prize follows the discontinuation, in 2008, of Canada's Marian Engel award for female writers. There's an intriguing piece in the Globe and Mail by Leah McLaren about this.\"In Canada, women writers have been playing with the big boys for some time now,\" she writes. \"This is why, in 2008, when I was on the authors' committee of the Writers' Trust of Canada, we discontinued the Marian Engel award (for a woman writer in mid-career) and created the Engel/Findley award to honour a body of work by any established Canadian writer, male or female. Assessing the literary landscape, the committee decided that a gendered prize was no longer needed \u2013 and we were right. It was a wise choice, and one that reflected the progress (if not outright dominance) of female Canadian writers on a level playing-field.\"Clearly, not everyone in Canada agrees that there's a level playing-field these days. But as we in the UK discuss whether or not we still need the Women's prize for fiction \u2013 Hilary Mantel, after all, is fresh from her second Booker win \u2013 it's intriguing to note that other countries are starting their own versions.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Women's prize for fiction", "Books", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Women", "Life and style", "Equality", "Society", "Canada", "Australia news", "Americas", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Corporate sponsorship"], "title": "Canada and Australia launch women's literary prizes"},{"date": "2012-11-30T09:53:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "As the co-operative movement globally tries to pull off the ambitious trick of converting this year's UN International Year of Co-operatives into the planned \"Co-operative Decade\", two women are at the forefront of the action. One is Dame Pauline Green, the leader in the 1990s of the social democratic group of MEPs in the European Parliament, and then from 2001 the first head of Co-operatives UK, and now, as president of the International Co-operative Alliance (ICA), a tireless global advocate for co-operative business. The other is the French Canadian Monique Leroux.Co-operatives worldwide, and especially Leroux's mighty Desjardins Group which she has led since 2008, can be grateful that she did not follow her original intention and become a concert pianist. A talented musician who studied as a young woman at the conservatoire in Qu\u00e9bec, she eventually chose a more orthodox career and qualified as an accountant. Seventeen years followed at Ernst and Young, then came a senior management appointment to the Royal Bank of Canada followed by a similar post at the Canadian media company Quebecor. And then, in 2001 when she was in her late forties, she moved to the co-operative sector, and to a senior post at Desjardins. The top job came to her seven years later, and earlier this year she was endorsed again for a second four-year term as president and chief executive of what is the world's fifth biggest financial services co-operative.Leroux has become a passionate advocate of the co-operative business model. This is the time, she told delegates at Manchester's recent Co-operatives United event, for co-operatives to assert themselves on the world stage. \"Co-operatives are a key part of the solution to the present crisis,\" she claimed.Desjardins itself is a major player in the Canadian economy. It has around 44,000 employees, assets of CAD 190bn (\u00a3120bn) and annual income of around CAD 11bn. Constituted as a federation of several hundred credit unions (mainly in Qu\u00e9bec province but also in other parts of Canada), the Desjardins Group is also an important household and life insurer in the Canadian market. It has a democratic structure that, with over 5,000 elected officers, puts even the UK's Co-operative Group's complicated democracy in the shade. It also has its own international development NGO in D\u00e9veloppement International Desjardins (DID).Ask Leroux about her priorities for her next four-year term and the first thing she emphasises is the need to stay close to the five million or so Desjardins credit union members and clients and to improve the services they receive. She adds that this is a principle that sounds simple to achieve but can be complicated in practice, as people increasing interact through phones and the internet rather than visiting their neighbouring caisse (credit union savings bank). One of her first acts as president was to reorganise and simplify Desjardins' way of working to improve its strategic development and performance, and she stresses the need for co-operatives to be ready to embrace change. \"All co-operatives need to be agile, to be innovative and to deliver strong performance for the long term,\" she says.Desjardins has recently begun to strengthen its position outside francophone Canada and links with some of the major credit unions in the rest of the country may well be on Leroux's wish list for the future. In the meantime, the recent acquisition of Calgary-based insurer and bank Western Financial provides an important bridgehead into anglophone Canada.Leroux says that other takeovers would be considered, but only if they fit Desjardins' growth strategy. \"We don't want acquisitions just for the sake of it,\" she adds. She stresses instead the potential for co-operatives to grow their businesses through partnership agreements with other co-operatives, rather than through the traditional M&A route favoured by corporate players. Desjardins has already begun to explore these possibilities, with a recent co-operative agreement with French bank Cr\u00e9dit Mutuel. As Leroux points out, several hundred of her Canadian business clients operate in European markets, and the tie-up allows Desjardins to increase the services it offers them. Conversely, Cr\u00e9dit Mutuel can use the partnership agreement to service French businesses active in the Canadian market.It was perhaps her sense of the growing importance of interaction between larger co-operatives that led Desjardins to host the co-operative summit, held in October in Qu\u00e9bec City. The summit represented a major financial and organisational undertaking for her co-operative (the total budget, Canadian sources suggest, was approaching CAD 10m) but the event is generally seen to have been highly successful, with almost 3,000 participants taking part. Leroux has now offered to do the whole thing all over again, in conjunction with the ICA, in late 2014. Her vision, it is becoming clear, is for a sort of co-operative Davos, a forum where the world's co-operative business leaders can come together for in-depth debate and business networking.In between directing her co-operative and overseeing arrangements for the Qu\u00e9bec summit, Leroux also found time this year to write a short book on the early days of Desjardins.Alphonse Desjardins, the founding father of the French Canadian credit union movement, was born in 1854 in L\u00e9vis (the small town across the St Lawrence river from Qu\u00e9bec city where the Desjardins Group is still based) and, shocked by the extortionate interest rates charged by the late 19th century Canadian equivalent of loan sharks, started the first neighbourhood based credit union in L\u00e9vis in 1900. The story of his efforts is one that Leroux clearly finds inspiring \u2013 although she also acknowledges the (rather less well-known) efforts put in by his wife Dorim\u00e8ne, who kept the vision of a network of credit unions alive after Alphonse's death in 1920.It is still unusual today to find a major financial institution led by a woman. The reason for Leroux's success could be, she says, precisely because Desjardins is a co-operative. The co-operative's president and chief executive is chosen democratically in a very open process by an electoral college of over 250 delegates. \"I'm not sure I would have been chosen by a [conventional Board] nominating committee,\" she says.She is not necessarily convinced by the prescriptive quota approach being discussed in the European union to achieve more women Board members, however, preferring to argue for targets instead. Desjardins is currently working to achieve better gender balance among its elected officers, for example.Her role as host at the Qu\u00e9bec summit and her guest presentations at Co-operatives United have propelled her, and her co-operative, into the limelight. \"We need greater visibility of co-operatives' achievements,\" she says. \"We are people-focused businesses, committed to our communities for the long-term\".This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the social enterprise network, click here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Co-operative Group", "Business", "Ethical business", "Canada", "Americas", "Social enterprise"], "title": "Financial co-operative Desjardins tests water beyond francophone Canada"},{"date": "2012-12-18T12:23:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Personal Genome Project, an initiative to generate DNA sequence from the genomes of the general public, has been around since 2006. Spearheaded by DNA sequence guru Dr George Church, its premise is simple:We believe individuals from the general public have a vital role to play in making personal genomes useful. We are recruiting volunteers who are willing to share their genome sequence and many types of personal information with the research community and the general public, so that together we will be better able to advance our understanding of genetic and environmental contributions to human traits.In other words, it's about engaging the general public in genome research, to provide background data that can help in all kinds of medical research. Kind of like crowd-sourced genomics.All of this was kicked up a notch recently by the launch of the Canadian arm of the PGP, nicely profiled in a series of articles in the daily newspaper The Globe and Mail. The lead article by veteran science reporter Carolyn Abraham, entitled Would you make your DNA and health data public if it may help cure disease?, tells the story of participant \"Canuck 1\" \u2013 genetic counsellor Jill Davies. It's a fascinating read, and the Globe has come up with a series of additional online materials, including some background on what makes up a genome, the PGP Canada's consent form, and an online poll where readers can weigh in on whether they would have their genome sequenced or not. At the time of writing, 80% of respondents had voted \"yes\".So how does all of this help medical research? Not long ago, my fellow Occam's Corner blogger Erika Cule wrote about her impressions of the recent American Society of Human Genetics conference. The closing remark from ASHG, which she reports in her blog post, was \"Ability to identify variation is no longer the limiting step in our field\". I'm not convinced that's strictly accurate \u2013 after all, genome sequencing, while surprisingly straightforward, is still a fairly big undertaking, and the analysis of the resulting data is not yet the province of desktop computers. But the gist of the message rings true \u2013 genome scientists can now generate data at an unprecedented rate, with essentially off-the-shelf (albeit expensive) instruments capable of producing a human genome project's worth of data in mere days. Using this data to identify the variation between one individual human and the next is the centre point of genetic medicine. And with the near-future promise of the \"$1,000 genome\", there's every hope that genome sequencing might pave the way to routine, genetically personalised medicine. Without getting into a long debate about the origins of this \"$1,000 genome\" term, I think most people would attribute its popularisation to a pair of articles from 2006: one by Church, published in Scientific American, and a second editorial by Robert F Service in Science.Early this year, Erika Check outlined the path forward on the Nature News Blog, in her article The $1,000 genome: are we there yet? (spoiler \u2013 the answer's \"not quite\"). Even the Archon Genomics X Prize has backed off a bit, listing in its guidelines a minimum requirement that genomes be sequenced for a maximum (are you following this?) of $10,000 each, but with a \"best in class\" target of, you guessed it, $1,000.Although that $1,000 figure seems to have been chosen simply because it's a conveniently small, round number, it's in the right ballpark to be useful. The US National Institutes of Health's Genetics Home Reference tells us that genetic tests vary in cost between about $100 and $2,000 each in the US; those numbers are about right for most genetic tests in Canada, too. Imagine, then, a $1,000 genome sequence \u2013 if done right, it could potentially replace the need for every genetic test you would need for the rest of your life (with the exception of tests for a specific tissue \u2013 like cancers). Although I was recently reminded that this optimistic view has to be tempered with the inevitable licensing restrictions around existing tests that would be revealed by a whole genome sequence, it seems likely that big savings to healthcare systems could be realised. And we're pretty much in the right place, scientifically, to be able to do the experiment to find out. So much so that my own institute has also kicked off an ambitious Centre for Genetic Medicine \u2013 in part to answer the question of what impacts can be made through clinical whole-genome sequencing. Can we have positive impact on patients, identifying life-altering conditions far in advance of the presence of symptoms? Can this be done in a rational way based on prioritising certain patients, or is it better to test everyone? What impact on the economics of healthcare might this have here in Canada, and in other places in the world? These are all questions we are now in a position to ask, and potentially answer in the very near future.Which brings us back to the PGP. Research studies have always needed control data \u2013 information that we can compare with data from patients with a specific disease or disorder. Frequently, obtaining these data can be more difficult than data from patients, for whom mechanisms to enrol in research studies are already in place. Personal genomes from the general public have great promise to provide a rich source of fully-consented information that is openly available to the research community. Yes, it may be biased towards people who are curious and able to take advantage of the project (questions well addressed in the Globe article), and there is potential for abuse of this information, as outlined by project ethicist Dr Michael Szego in an accompanying video. But my hypothesis, for now, is that there will be immense value in the PGP, whether from Canada or similar studies in other countries. And I believe that we're now in a position to ask the question, do the experiment, and seek the answers to these important questions.", "tags": ["Genetics", "Medical research", "Science"], "title": "The human genome \u2013 Canada gets personal | Richard Wintle"},{"date": "2012-11-29T08:45:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, the world's second-largest country, was colonised by the British and French in the 15th century, meaning that today it is officially bilingual, with almost a quarter of citizens speaking French (centred largely around francophone Quebec). This isn't the only reason Canada is popular \u2013 modern cities nestled among stunning scenery make for a vibrant, outdoors lifestyle.Almost everyone has access to high quality healthcare in Canada, which makes it attractive to expats, and there is an incredible variety of regions to see and explore. These range from cities such as Toronto (pronounced \"Tronno\" by the locals), Montreal and Vancouver (where most expats congregate), to the world-class ski resorts of Whistler and Calgary.Canada is a vast expanse, where locals and visitors alike can holiday in the country every year without getting bored. A trip to see the northern lights in Newfoundland and whale-watching off Vancouver are musts.If you settle in Canada you should feel welcome \u2013 the country has one of the highest per capita immigration rates in the world. According to the Canadian immigration service the country is looking to attract between 240,000 and 265,000 new permanent residents in 2012 alone.You'll probably need the most common visa \u2013 the skilled workers and professionals visa \u2013 but in order to get one you'll have to prove you will be an advantage to the economy (Quebec has its own regional visa of this type). You'll be scored on criteria such as age and occupation, with the holy grail of 67 points needed to be considered for entry. Failing that there are visas for entrepreneurs and investors, visas for people who have skills that are needed in a specific province, and family visas for those joining a spouse or family member.Check out the Canadian Citizenship and Immigration service's Visa Wizard to see whether you're eligible.You must be able to show you have enough money to support yourself and your dependants, unless you have arranged employment in Canada. This means you need to have funds from CAN$11,115 (\u00a36,968) for one family member, to CAN$29,414 for seven or more family members. You will also need to pass a medical exam.The UK state pension is payable in Canada, but unfortunately you will not get annual increases in benefit once you have ceased to be resident in the UK. This means your benefit will stay at the same rate as when you left the UK.You need only routine vaccinations, though Hepatitis B is recommended, as well as rabies if you are likely to be involved in any activities that might bring you into direct contact with bats, carnivores and other mammals.What airport will you arrive at? Depends where you're heading. Ottawa is the capital, but the largest city is Toronto \u2013 either are likely first stops.Local currency The Canadian dollar. On 12 NOvember 2012 \u00a31 is $1.59.How do you spot a cab? Many cabs are yellow, like New York taxis, but there are just as many cabs of other colours.Price of a hotel room Depends on the season and where you are, but anything from \u00a350-\u00a3150 for a three-star hotel. For example, in November the three-star Ramada Downtown Vancouver is charging \u00a352 a night compared to \u00a3103 at the three-star Ramada Downtown Calgary. Hotels.com put the average price at \u00a3105 in the first half of 2012.Price of a house About $750,000 for a three-bed house in Vancouver. According to Numbeo, the price per square metre for an apartment in Toronto city centre is $6,234.31, dropping to $3,767.37 in the suburbs.Price of a pint of milk: $1.13.What language do most people speak? Canadian English and Canadian French.What tax will you pay? Federal tax rates are 15% on the first $42,707 of taxable income; 22% on the next $42,707 of taxable income (ie, more than 42,707 up to $85,414); 26% on the next $46,992 of taxable income (up to\u00a0$132,406); and 29% on income in excess of $132,406. There are also lower, provincial tax rates which you can view at the Canada Revenue Agency's website.How long will it take to send a letter home? Up to two weeks, but five-10 days if you're lucky.\u2022 The Canuck language throws up some interesting definitions: suckers are lollipops; noodles means pasta; a loonie is a dollar; a parkade is a multi-storey car park; a gas bar is the petrol station; and hydro means electricity (as in hydro-electric).\u2022 Ice hockey, known simply as hockey in Canada, and lacrosse are the country's national sports.\u2022 Mail is not delivered on Saturdays in Canada.\u2022 Winnie the Pooh originally comes from Canada. Well, sort of. AA Milne's son Christopher Robin visited London zoo and fell in love with a bear that had been exported from Winnipeg in Canada.\u2022 Famous Canadians include Pamela Anderson, Leonard Cohen, Avril Lavigne, Keanu Reeves and Jim Carrey.Karen Brooks, 27, and her partner Nic Ollier, 26, moved to Whistler in October 2010 after completing a winter sports season at the resort in 2008-09. \"Nic and I did a winter season and we fell in love with the place,\" Brooks says. \"The people, the outdoor lifestyle and breathtaking scenery: we came back for a more permanent stay.\" Ollier adds: \"There are endless adventures to be had and never a dull day. You can't decide whether to go mountain biking, hiking, swimming in the lake, fishing or all of the above.\"The two were living in Surrey when they decided to migrate. Brooks now works in sales for an adventure tour operator called The Adventure Group, while Ollier works as a snowmobile tour guide in winter and a quad bike tour guide in summer, providing backcountry tours just south of Whistler village.\"The weather is a big factor in why we like it here \u2013 the snowy winters and hot summers,\" Brooks says.\"I also feel like I'm surrounded by like-minded people, and the scenery blows my mind continually,\" Ollier says. \"The more time you spend here there more things you discover and the more a part of everything you feel.\"The couple say it is easy to meet other expats in Whistler because it draws in people from all over the world, but many of the Brits they meet are only there temporarily. \"That's typical of resort life and doesn't reflect the rest of British Columbia,\" Ollier explains.If the pair were to give one piece of advice for people about to make the same move it would be to \"try and establish as much as you can before you leave, but accept it will take a while to find the right job and an affordable place to live. You need patience to cope with the immigration system \u2013 it's very confusing, slow and frustrating.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in Canada? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"Canada\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to Canada in the comments section. ", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance", "Money"], "title": "A UK's expat's guide to Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-28T09:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When Julilly is snatched away from her mother's clutches and sent into the Deep South to work on the cotton plantations, she is mortified. She meets Liza, they soon become firm friends and they secretly talk about the freedom land together, and there dream to one day reach there.When she is finally given the chance by a member of the Underground Railway she leaves with Liza to journey up the whole of America. But the slave catchers and dogs will soon be after them; will they escape the hate and wrath of ol' Sims? Or will they get many a whipping for their so-called evil ways?This book has all the qualities that you could want: adventure, tragic, excitement and suspense. This heart-warming tale of a slaves journey to freedom will blow your mind away with how hard life was back then and the extent one girl will go to, to save her friends and to get back with her mother. I recommend this book to anyone who loves history and who also loves adventure, this book is for girls and boys and anyone from the age of 9-14. I give this book a 100/10 \u2013 you can't get better than this!!Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Adventure (children and teens)", "Historical fiction (children and teens)"], "title": "Underground to Canada by Barbara Smucker - review"},{"date": "2012-11-28T15:21:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ipswich might be a long way from Ontario, but the distance will shrink in just over a year when Alecky Blythe and Adam Cork's verbatim musical London Road, an unlikely hit at London's National theatre, receives its Canadian premiere.The musical, which opened in 2011 inside the NT's smallest space and went on to win best musical at the Critics' Circle awards, will receive a new production by the Canadian Stage Company under the direction of Jackie Maxwell, artistic director of the Shaw Festival theatre in Ontario. After opening on 19 January 2014, the production will run for three weeks.The musical, originally directed by Rufus Norris, is based on the responses of local residents to the serial killings that took place in Ipswich in late 2006 and was the subject of some controversy prior to its world premiere in April 2011. It was subsequently revived in the much bigger Olivier auditorium last summer, during the tricky Olympic period.London Road will be joined in the Canadian Stage season by another British production, Akram Khan's Desh, which started life at Sadler's Wells six months afterwards. Guardian dance critic Judith Mackrell described Khan's piece as \"the most urgent, beautiful and confident work of his career\"; high praise for a man who was involved in Peter Brook's Mahabharata, and who has run his own company since 2000. Khan played an integral part in the Olympic opening ceremony, dancing to Emile Sande's rendition of Abide with Me.The other two productions of international note headed for CSC next year are a reimagined staging of Robert Lepage's 1980 piece Needles and Opium \u2013 a look at the relationship between addiction and art \u2013 and Venus in Fur, a Broadway success in 2011 for playwright David Ives, which is also being adapted for film by Roman Polanski.", "tags": ["Musicals", "Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "London Road wends it way to Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-27T01:37:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The surprise appointment of Bank of Canada governor, Mark Carney, to lead the Bank of England has been received as a compliment and a loss in Canada.In September 2008, as interbank capital liquidity hoarding precipitated a financial tsunami from which Europe is still reeling, Carney ensured liquidity for borrowers through the central bank, cut interest rates to a historically low 0.25%, kept inflation under control, and ensured Canada borrowed at the best possible rates.The 47-year-old Harvard and Oxford educated Canadian economist has a mission to reform the banking system so that taxpayers never again have to bail out \"too big to fail\" banks.Former Canadian prime minister and minister of finance, Paul Martin, said that he was \"very disappointed\" to see Carney leave Canada \"He has been an outstanding governor of the bank of Canada as well as a very progressive head of the financial stability board.\" The \"silver lining\", said Martin, is that Carney's appointment \"bodes well for the economies in Canada, the United States, China and elsewhere\".\"If what you're looking for is somebody who understands of the inner working of the banking system domestically, but at the same time its interconnections globally, and what has to be done globally, I think you've got a very, very strong person,\" said Martin.Duncan Cameron, from the Centre for Global Political Economy at Simon Fraser University, said Carney \"has demonstrated in the Canadian context a quite uncanny ability to get things done under difficult circumstances\", adding that \"as governor he hasn't made any wrong steps\".Following the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, many Canadian banks and financial institutions held worthless mortgaged-backed bonds while other major players held none. Carney managed to negotiate a bailout settlement to share the losses.Carney \"turned his back on a very lucrative career in private banking to go into a public service job where his first job was to try and bang heads together and try and remedy an almost impossible situation\", said Cameron.\"A lot of people wouldn't want to get up in the morning if they had to face that kind of situation and he seems to have thrived on it.\"The Canadian banking system, which is made up of five large banks, has been ranked the most sound in the world five years in a row by the World Economic Forum, which praised it for being \"well-capitalised, well-managed and well-regulated\".Canadian banks make loans on a case-by-case basis, depending on the creditor's ability to repay. Many of the high-risk and complex financial instruments that exacerbated the subprime mortgage fiasco in the US do not exist in Canada. This prudence has proven key to Canada's performance compared to its neighbour, which jumped on to the exotic, and ultimately toxic, trades bandwagon peddled by Wall Street and City of London.While it is often boasted that after the 2008 financial crisis, Canadian banks didn't need a bailout, the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives has argued that Canadian banks profited from a secret bailout in the form if $114bn (7% of Canada's GDP) in emergency liquidity from the US Federal Reserve, the Bank of Canada and the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, from October 2008 until well into 2010. The same thinktank has warned against excessive bragging about Canadian banks, calling it a \"myth of Canadian exceptionalism\" and insisting they are not \"immune to the temptations and threats that compromised banks in Europe, the US and around the world\".", "tags": ["Mark Carney", "Canada", "Bank of England", "Business", "UK news", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mark Carney's appointment: the view from Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-02T09:46:05Z", "country": "canada", "content": "As the prize formerly known as the Orange continues its hunt for a headline sponsor, it's interesting to see that Canada and Australia have both just launched women-only literary prizes.The Stella prize, in Australia, is named after Stella Miles Franklin, the esteemed novelist whose bequest founded the country's most prestigious literary award, the Miles Franklin, which came under memorable attack last year for being a \"sausage fest\". No female author had made the shortlist for the second time in three years, and just 13 out of the award's 50 winners had been women.That changed this year when Anna Funder took the prize, but a group of women in the arts have founded the Stella award nonetheless, to \"raise the profile of women's writing\" with a prize pot of A$50,000 for the best work of fiction or non-fiction by a woman.In Canada, meanwhile, trade magazine Quill & Quire reports that the Rosalind prize is being set up. It's just for fiction, and it comes about due to the disparity in numbers discovered by the organisation Canadian Women in the Literary Arts: although looking at submissions for the Governor General's Literary Awards, \"women and men published books in near equal numbers in 2011 with 513 books published by men and 523 books published by women\", far fewer books by women were reviewed in the press (you can see the details here).\"I thought things were fine and equal here in Canada. I didn't realise the disparity until looking at the hard numbers,\" publisher Janice Zawerbny told Quill & Quire. \"It was really disheartening. Why is this happening in this day and age? It became the impetus or the rallying cry, sitting in the auditorium.\"The establishment of the Rosalind prize follows the discontinuation, in 2008, of Canada's Marian Engel award for female writers. There's an intriguing piece in the Globe and Mail by Leah McLaren about this.\"In Canada, women writers have been playing with the big boys for some time now,\" she writes. \"This is why, in 2008, when I was on the authors' committee of the Writers' Trust of Canada, we discontinued the Marian Engel award (for a woman writer in mid-career) and created the Engel/Findley award to honour a body of work by any established Canadian writer, male or female. Assessing the literary landscape, the committee decided that a gendered prize was no longer needed \u2013 and we were right. It was a wise choice, and one that reflected the progress (if not outright dominance) of female Canadian writers on a level playing-field.\"Clearly, not everyone in Canada agrees that there's a level playing-field these days. But as we in the UK discuss whether or not we still need the Women's prize for fiction \u2013 Hilary Mantel, after all, is fresh from her second Booker win \u2013 it's intriguing to note that other countries are starting their own versions.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Women's prize for fiction", "Books", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Women", "Life and style", "Equality", "Society", "Canada", "Australia news", "Americas", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Corporate sponsorship"], "title": "Canada and Australia launch women's literary prizes"},{"date": "2012-11-30T09:53:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "As the co-operative movement globally tries to pull off the ambitious trick of converting this year's UN International Year of Co-operatives into the planned \"Co-operative Decade\", two women are at the forefront of the action. One is Dame Pauline Green, the leader in the 1990s of the social democratic group of MEPs in the European Parliament, and then from 2001 the first head of Co-operatives UK, and now, as president of the International Co-operative Alliance (ICA), a tireless global advocate for co-operative business. The other is the French Canadian Monique Leroux.Co-operatives worldwide, and especially Leroux's mighty Desjardins Group which she has led since 2008, can be grateful that she did not follow her original intention and become a concert pianist. A talented musician who studied as a young woman at the conservatoire in Qu\u00e9bec, she eventually chose a more orthodox career and qualified as an accountant. Seventeen years followed at Ernst and Young, then came a senior management appointment to the Royal Bank of Canada followed by a similar post at the Canadian media company Quebecor. And then, in 2001 when she was in her late forties, she moved to the co-operative sector, and to a senior post at Desjardins. The top job came to her seven years later, and earlier this year she was endorsed again for a second four-year term as president and chief executive of what is the world's fifth biggest financial services co-operative.Leroux has become a passionate advocate of the co-operative business model. This is the time, she told delegates at Manchester's recent Co-operatives United event, for co-operatives to assert themselves on the world stage. \"Co-operatives are a key part of the solution to the present crisis,\" she claimed.Desjardins itself is a major player in the Canadian economy. It has around 44,000 employees, assets of CAD 190bn (\u00a3120bn) and annual income of around CAD 11bn. Constituted as a federation of several hundred credit unions (mainly in Qu\u00e9bec province but also in other parts of Canada), the Desjardins Group is also an important household and life insurer in the Canadian market. It has a democratic structure that, with over 5,000 elected officers, puts even the UK's Co-operative Group's complicated democracy in the shade. It also has its own international development NGO in D\u00e9veloppement International Desjardins (DID).Ask Leroux about her priorities for her next four-year term and the first thing she emphasises is the need to stay close to the five million or so Desjardins credit union members and clients and to improve the services they receive. She adds that this is a principle that sounds simple to achieve but can be complicated in practice, as people increasing interact through phones and the internet rather than visiting their neighbouring caisse (credit union savings bank). One of her first acts as president was to reorganise and simplify Desjardins' way of working to improve its strategic development and performance, and she stresses the need for co-operatives to be ready to embrace change. \"All co-operatives need to be agile, to be innovative and to deliver strong performance for the long term,\" she says.Desjardins has recently begun to strengthen its position outside francophone Canada and links with some of the major credit unions in the rest of the country may well be on Leroux's wish list for the future. In the meantime, the recent acquisition of Calgary-based insurer and bank Western Financial provides an important bridgehead into anglophone Canada.Leroux says that other takeovers would be considered, but only if they fit Desjardins' growth strategy. \"We don't want acquisitions just for the sake of it,\" she adds. She stresses instead the potential for co-operatives to grow their businesses through partnership agreements with other co-operatives, rather than through the traditional M&A route favoured by corporate players. Desjardins has already begun to explore these possibilities, with a recent co-operative agreement with French bank Cr\u00e9dit Mutuel. As Leroux points out, several hundred of her Canadian business clients operate in European markets, and the tie-up allows Desjardins to increase the services it offers them. Conversely, Cr\u00e9dit Mutuel can use the partnership agreement to service French businesses active in the Canadian market.It was perhaps her sense of the growing importance of interaction between larger co-operatives that led Desjardins to host the co-operative summit, held in October in Qu\u00e9bec City. The summit represented a major financial and organisational undertaking for her co-operative (the total budget, Canadian sources suggest, was approaching CAD 10m) but the event is generally seen to have been highly successful, with almost 3,000 participants taking part. Leroux has now offered to do the whole thing all over again, in conjunction with the ICA, in late 2014. Her vision, it is becoming clear, is for a sort of co-operative Davos, a forum where the world's co-operative business leaders can come together for in-depth debate and business networking.In between directing her co-operative and overseeing arrangements for the Qu\u00e9bec summit, Leroux also found time this year to write a short book on the early days of Desjardins.Alphonse Desjardins, the founding father of the French Canadian credit union movement, was born in 1854 in L\u00e9vis (the small town across the St Lawrence river from Qu\u00e9bec city where the Desjardins Group is still based) and, shocked by the extortionate interest rates charged by the late 19th century Canadian equivalent of loan sharks, started the first neighbourhood based credit union in L\u00e9vis in 1900. The story of his efforts is one that Leroux clearly finds inspiring \u2013 although she also acknowledges the (rather less well-known) efforts put in by his wife Dorim\u00e8ne, who kept the vision of a network of credit unions alive after Alphonse's death in 1920.It is still unusual today to find a major financial institution led by a woman. The reason for Leroux's success could be, she says, precisely because Desjardins is a co-operative. The co-operative's president and chief executive is chosen democratically in a very open process by an electoral college of over 250 delegates. \"I'm not sure I would have been chosen by a [conventional Board] nominating committee,\" she says.She is not necessarily convinced by the prescriptive quota approach being discussed in the European union to achieve more women Board members, however, preferring to argue for targets instead. Desjardins is currently working to achieve better gender balance among its elected officers, for example.Her role as host at the Qu\u00e9bec summit and her guest presentations at Co-operatives United have propelled her, and her co-operative, into the limelight. \"We need greater visibility of co-operatives' achievements,\" she says. \"We are people-focused businesses, committed to our communities for the long-term\".This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the social enterprise network, click here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Co-operative Group", "Business", "Ethical business", "Canada", "Americas", "Social enterprise"], "title": "Financial co-operative Desjardins tests water beyond francophone Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-26T18:43:06Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Of all the delegations in the room in Doha, the Canadians adopt the lowest profile. Some question whether they should be there at all: The country's first and only Green party MP, Elizabeth May, said: \"Having Canada in the room negotiating to weaken the second Kyoto, when we have already signalled that not only will we not be participating in taking on new targets in the second period but we're legally withdrawn from the protocol, should make us pariahs.\"\"I can't imagine how anybody would want us in the room.\"Canada's current greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are 23% over the country's Kyoto protocol target, and federal government estimates place Canada 28.8% over the target by 2014. Canada is the only country to have repudiated Kyoto, the sole legally binding international policy tool to date to deal with the emissions, and ranks just behind the US and Australia in the table of worst global emitters per capita.This is because of Canada's size, its cold climate and its resource-based economy, especially the energy-intensive, carbon-emissions-heavy oil boiled from large swaths of bitumen know as the Alberta tar sands.Canada holds the world's third-largest oil reserves, mostly concentrated in the western province of Alberta, the region that is the largest emitter of greenhouse gases. Where most provinces' GHG emissions have stabilised since 1990, Alberta's emissions have increased by 41%.The cornerstone of Prime Minister Stephen Harper's policy has been to try to approve key pipelines, such the Keystone XL, from Alberta to Texas, the Enbridge Northern Gateway, from Alberta to the West Coast, and Enbridge Line 9, an eastbound pipeline reversal that could see tar-sands crude pumped to Quebec and the Atlantic coast.Harper's 2012 budget bill, called C-38, replaced the entire Environmental Assessment Act in order to \"streamline\" approval of major oil and gas pipelines. The 2011 budget slashed funding for Environment Canada by over $222m (\u00a3140m), with cuts specifically to departments dealing with climate change, clean air, waste management and water resources.\"The environment assessment regime put in place in the past year would be a laughing stock in a developing country,\" said May. \"We have a government that is less concerned about climate than the CEOs of major oil companies.\"Canada has increasingly \"harmonised\" its energy and climate policy with the US, and in Copenhagen followed it on a non-binding agreement to \"reduce emissions by 17% below 2005 level by 2020\". But Canada-US harmonisation stops when it comes to investing in clean-energy jobs: were Canada to match the US on a per person basis, it would invest an additional $11bn. Canada provides less clean-energy stimulus than Saudi Arabia, China, Australia, France or the US.A recent study by labour and environmental groups estimates Canada could create more than 20,000 jobs if it invested the $1.3bn-a-year tax subsidy currently given to oil, coal and gas companies in emerging energy sectors such as wind, solar power and home retrofits.", "tags": ["Canada", "Kyoto protocol", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "COP18 Doha climate change conference", "Global climate talks", "Climate change", "Americas", "Environment", "Oil", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Energy industry", "Tar sands", "World news"], "title": "Canada, the surprise 'pariah' of the Kyoto protocol"},{"date": "2012-12-18T12:23:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Personal Genome Project, an initiative to generate DNA sequence from the genomes of the general public, has been around since 2006. Spearheaded by DNA sequence guru Dr George Church, its premise is simple:We believe individuals from the general public have a vital role to play in making personal genomes useful. We are recruiting volunteers who are willing to share their genome sequence and many types of personal information with the research community and the general public, so that together we will be better able to advance our understanding of genetic and environmental contributions to human traits.In other words, it's about engaging the general public in genome research, to provide background data that can help in all kinds of medical research. Kind of like crowd-sourced genomics.All of this was kicked up a notch recently by the launch of the Canadian arm of the PGP, nicely profiled in a series of articles in the daily newspaper The Globe and Mail. The lead article by veteran science reporter Carolyn Abraham, entitled Would you make your DNA and health data public if it may help cure disease?, tells the story of participant \"Canuck 1\" \u2013 genetic counsellor Jill Davies. It's a fascinating read, and the Globe has come up with a series of additional online materials, including some background on what makes up a genome, the PGP Canada's consent form, and an online poll where readers can weigh in on whether they would have their genome sequenced or not. At the time of writing, 80% of respondents had voted \"yes\".So how does all of this help medical research? Not long ago, my fellow Occam's Corner blogger Erika Cule wrote about her impressions of the recent American Society of Human Genetics conference. The closing remark from ASHG, which she reports in her blog post, was \"Ability to identify variation is no longer the limiting step in our field\". I'm not convinced that's strictly accurate \u2013 after all, genome sequencing, while surprisingly straightforward, is still a fairly big undertaking, and the analysis of the resulting data is not yet the province of desktop computers. But the gist of the message rings true \u2013 genome scientists can now generate data at an unprecedented rate, with essentially off-the-shelf (albeit expensive) instruments capable of producing a human genome project's worth of data in mere days. Using this data to identify the variation between one individual human and the next is the centre point of genetic medicine. And with the near-future promise of the \"$1,000 genome\", there's every hope that genome sequencing might pave the way to routine, genetically personalised medicine. Without getting into a long debate about the origins of this \"$1,000 genome\" term, I think most people would attribute its popularisation to a pair of articles from 2006: one by Church, published in Scientific American, and a second editorial by Robert F Service in Science.Early this year, Erika Check outlined the path forward on the Nature News Blog, in her article The $1,000 genome: are we there yet? (spoiler \u2013 the answer's \"not quite\"). Even the Archon Genomics X Prize has backed off a bit, listing in its guidelines a minimum requirement that genomes be sequenced for a maximum (are you following this?) of $10,000 each, but with a \"best in class\" target of, you guessed it, $1,000.Although that $1,000 figure seems to have been chosen simply because it's a conveniently small, round number, it's in the right ballpark to be useful. The US National Institutes of Health's Genetics Home Reference tells us that genetic tests vary in cost between about $100 and $2,000 each in the US; those numbers are about right for most genetic tests in Canada, too. Imagine, then, a $1,000 genome sequence \u2013 if done right, it could potentially replace the need for every genetic test you would need for the rest of your life (with the exception of tests for a specific tissue \u2013 like cancers). Although I was recently reminded that this optimistic view has to be tempered with the inevitable licensing restrictions around existing tests that would be revealed by a whole genome sequence, it seems likely that big savings to healthcare systems could be realised. And we're pretty much in the right place, scientifically, to be able to do the experiment to find out. So much so that my own institute has also kicked off an ambitious Centre for Genetic Medicine \u2013 in part to answer the question of what impacts can be made through clinical whole-genome sequencing. Can we have positive impact on patients, identifying life-altering conditions far in advance of the presence of symptoms? Can this be done in a rational way based on prioritising certain patients, or is it better to test everyone? What impact on the economics of healthcare might this have here in Canada, and in other places in the world? These are all questions we are now in a position to ask, and potentially answer in the very near future.Which brings us back to the PGP. Research studies have always needed control data \u2013 information that we can compare with data from patients with a specific disease or disorder. Frequently, obtaining these data can be more difficult than data from patients, for whom mechanisms to enrol in research studies are already in place. Personal genomes from the general public have great promise to provide a rich source of fully-consented information that is openly available to the research community. Yes, it may be biased towards people who are curious and able to take advantage of the project (questions well addressed in the Globe article), and there is potential for abuse of this information, as outlined by project ethicist Dr Michael Szego in an accompanying video. But my hypothesis, for now, is that there will be immense value in the PGP, whether from Canada or similar studies in other countries. And I believe that we're now in a position to ask the question, do the experiment, and seek the answers to these important questions.", "tags": ["Genetics", "Medical research", "Science"], "title": "The human genome \u2013 Canada gets personal | Richard Wintle"},{"date": "2012-11-29T08:45:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, the world's second-largest country, was colonised by the British and French in the 15th century, meaning that today it is officially bilingual, with almost a quarter of citizens speaking French (centred largely around francophone Quebec). This isn't the only reason Canada is popular \u2013 modern cities nestled among stunning scenery make for a vibrant, outdoors lifestyle.Almost everyone has access to high quality healthcare in Canada, which makes it attractive to expats, and there is an incredible variety of regions to see and explore. These range from cities such as Toronto (pronounced \"Tronno\" by the locals), Montreal and Vancouver (where most expats congregate), to the world-class ski resorts of Whistler and Calgary.Canada is a vast expanse, where locals and visitors alike can holiday in the country every year without getting bored. A trip to see the northern lights in Newfoundland and whale-watching off Vancouver are musts.If you settle in Canada you should feel welcome \u2013 the country has one of the highest per capita immigration rates in the world. According to the Canadian immigration service the country is looking to attract between 240,000 and 265,000 new permanent residents in 2012 alone.You'll probably need the most common visa \u2013 the skilled workers and professionals visa \u2013 but in order to get one you'll have to prove you will be an advantage to the economy (Quebec has its own regional visa of this type). You'll be scored on criteria such as age and occupation, with the holy grail of 67 points needed to be considered for entry. Failing that there are visas for entrepreneurs and investors, visas for people who have skills that are needed in a specific province, and family visas for those joining a spouse or family member.Check out the Canadian Citizenship and Immigration service's Visa Wizard to see whether you're eligible.You must be able to show you have enough money to support yourself and your dependants, unless you have arranged employment in Canada. This means you need to have funds from CAN$11,115 (\u00a36,968) for one family member, to CAN$29,414 for seven or more family members. You will also need to pass a medical exam.The UK state pension is payable in Canada, but unfortunately you will not get annual increases in benefit once you have ceased to be resident in the UK. This means your benefit will stay at the same rate as when you left the UK.You need only routine vaccinations, though Hepatitis B is recommended, as well as rabies if you are likely to be involved in any activities that might bring you into direct contact with bats, carnivores and other mammals.What airport will you arrive at? Depends where you're heading. Ottawa is the capital, but the largest city is Toronto \u2013 either are likely first stops.Local currency The Canadian dollar. On 12 NOvember 2012 \u00a31 is $1.59.How do you spot a cab? Many cabs are yellow, like New York taxis, but there are just as many cabs of other colours.Price of a hotel room Depends on the season and where you are, but anything from \u00a350-\u00a3150 for a three-star hotel. For example, in November the three-star Ramada Downtown Vancouver is charging \u00a352 a night compared to \u00a3103 at the three-star Ramada Downtown Calgary. Hotels.com put the average price at \u00a3105 in the first half of 2012.Price of a house About $750,000 for a three-bed house in Vancouver. According to Numbeo, the price per square metre for an apartment in Toronto city centre is $6,234.31, dropping to $3,767.37 in the suburbs.Price of a pint of milk: $1.13.What language do most people speak? Canadian English and Canadian French.What tax will you pay? Federal tax rates are 15% on the first $42,707 of taxable income; 22% on the next $42,707 of taxable income (ie, more than 42,707 up to $85,414); 26% on the next $46,992 of taxable income (up to\u00a0$132,406); and 29% on income in excess of $132,406. There are also lower, provincial tax rates which you can view at the Canada Revenue Agency's website.How long will it take to send a letter home? Up to two weeks, but five-10 days if you're lucky.\u2022 The Canuck language throws up some interesting definitions: suckers are lollipops; noodles means pasta; a loonie is a dollar; a parkade is a multi-storey car park; a gas bar is the petrol station; and hydro means electricity (as in hydro-electric).\u2022 Ice hockey, known simply as hockey in Canada, and lacrosse are the country's national sports.\u2022 Mail is not delivered on Saturdays in Canada.\u2022 Winnie the Pooh originally comes from Canada. Well, sort of. AA Milne's son Christopher Robin visited London zoo and fell in love with a bear that had been exported from Winnipeg in Canada.\u2022 Famous Canadians include Pamela Anderson, Leonard Cohen, Avril Lavigne, Keanu Reeves and Jim Carrey.Karen Brooks, 27, and her partner Nic Ollier, 26, moved to Whistler in October 2010 after completing a winter sports season at the resort in 2008-09. \"Nic and I did a winter season and we fell in love with the place,\" Brooks says. \"The people, the outdoor lifestyle and breathtaking scenery: we came back for a more permanent stay.\" Ollier adds: \"There are endless adventures to be had and never a dull day. You can't decide whether to go mountain biking, hiking, swimming in the lake, fishing or all of the above.\"The two were living in Surrey when they decided to migrate. Brooks now works in sales for an adventure tour operator called The Adventure Group, while Ollier works as a snowmobile tour guide in winter and a quad bike tour guide in summer, providing backcountry tours just south of Whistler village.\"The weather is a big factor in why we like it here \u2013 the snowy winters and hot summers,\" Brooks says.\"I also feel like I'm surrounded by like-minded people, and the scenery blows my mind continually,\" Ollier says. \"The more time you spend here there more things you discover and the more a part of everything you feel.\"The couple say it is easy to meet other expats in Whistler because it draws in people from all over the world, but many of the Brits they meet are only there temporarily. \"That's typical of resort life and doesn't reflect the rest of British Columbia,\" Ollier explains.If the pair were to give one piece of advice for people about to make the same move it would be to \"try and establish as much as you can before you leave, but accept it will take a while to find the right job and an affordable place to live. You need patience to cope with the immigration system \u2013 it's very confusing, slow and frustrating.\"\u2022 If you're thinking of moving overseas why not enter our competition: we are offering \u00a3500 of travel vouchers to help you make the move.\u2022 Are you a UK expat in Canada? We want to see the view from your window. You can share it with us by adding it to our Flickr group tagged \"Canada\". Our selected favourites will appear in a gallery on guardian.co.uk/money.\u2022 Share your tips for expat newcomers to Canada in the comments section. ", "tags": ["Moving overseas", "Expat finance", "Money"], "title": "A UK's expat's guide to Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-28T09:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When Julilly is snatched away from her mother's clutches and sent into the Deep South to work on the cotton plantations, she is mortified. She meets Liza, they soon become firm friends and they secretly talk about the freedom land together, and there dream to one day reach there.When she is finally given the chance by a member of the Underground Railway she leaves with Liza to journey up the whole of America. But the slave catchers and dogs will soon be after them; will they escape the hate and wrath of ol' Sims? Or will they get many a whipping for their so-called evil ways?This book has all the qualities that you could want: adventure, tragic, excitement and suspense. This heart-warming tale of a slaves journey to freedom will blow your mind away with how hard life was back then and the extent one girl will go to, to save her friends and to get back with her mother. I recommend this book to anyone who loves history and who also loves adventure, this book is for girls and boys and anyone from the age of 9-14. I give this book a 100/10 \u2013 you can't get better than this!!Want to tell the world about a book you've read? Join the site and send us your review!", "tags": ["Children and teenagers", "Teen books", "Books", "Culture", "Children's books: 8-12 years", "Adventure (children and teens)", "Historical fiction (children and teens)"], "title": "Underground to Canada by Barbara Smucker - review"},{"date": "2012-11-28T15:21:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ipswich might be a long way from Ontario, but the distance will shrink in just over a year when Alecky Blythe and Adam Cork's verbatim musical London Road, an unlikely hit at London's National theatre, receives its Canadian premiere.The musical, which opened in 2011 inside the NT's smallest space and went on to win best musical at the Critics' Circle awards, will receive a new production by the Canadian Stage Company under the direction of Jackie Maxwell, artistic director of the Shaw Festival theatre in Ontario. After opening on 19 January 2014, the production will run for three weeks.The musical, originally directed by Rufus Norris, is based on the responses of local residents to the serial killings that took place in Ipswich in late 2006 and was the subject of some controversy prior to its world premiere in April 2011. It was subsequently revived in the much bigger Olivier auditorium last summer, during the tricky Olympic period.London Road will be joined in the Canadian Stage season by another British production, Akram Khan's Desh, which started life at Sadler's Wells six months afterwards. Guardian dance critic Judith Mackrell described Khan's piece as \"the most urgent, beautiful and confident work of his career\"; high praise for a man who was involved in Peter Brook's Mahabharata, and who has run his own company since 2000. Khan played an integral part in the Olympic opening ceremony, dancing to Emile Sande's rendition of Abide with Me.The other two productions of international note headed for CSC next year are a reimagined staging of Robert Lepage's 1980 piece Needles and Opium \u2013 a look at the relationship between addiction and art \u2013 and Venus in Fur, a Broadway success in 2011 for playwright David Ives, which is also being adapted for film by Roman Polanski.", "tags": ["Musicals", "Theatre", "Stage", "Culture", "Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "London Road wends it way to Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-27T01:37:12Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The surprise appointment of Bank of Canada governor, Mark Carney, to lead the Bank of England has been received as a compliment and a loss in Canada.In September 2008, as interbank capital liquidity hoarding precipitated a financial tsunami from which Europe is still reeling, Carney ensured liquidity for borrowers through the central bank, cut interest rates to a historically low 0.25%, kept inflation under control, and ensured Canada borrowed at the best possible rates.The 47-year-old Harvard and Oxford educated Canadian economist has a mission to reform the banking system so that taxpayers never again have to bail out \"too big to fail\" banks.Former Canadian prime minister and minister of finance, Paul Martin, said that he was \"very disappointed\" to see Carney leave Canada \"He has been an outstanding governor of the bank of Canada as well as a very progressive head of the financial stability board.\" The \"silver lining\", said Martin, is that Carney's appointment \"bodes well for the economies in Canada, the United States, China and elsewhere\".\"If what you're looking for is somebody who understands of the inner working of the banking system domestically, but at the same time its interconnections globally, and what has to be done globally, I think you've got a very, very strong person,\" said Martin.Duncan Cameron, from the Centre for Global Political Economy at Simon Fraser University, said Carney \"has demonstrated in the Canadian context a quite uncanny ability to get things done under difficult circumstances\", adding that \"as governor he hasn't made any wrong steps\".Following the collapse of Lehman Brothers in 2008, many Canadian banks and financial institutions held worthless mortgaged-backed bonds while other major players held none. Carney managed to negotiate a bailout settlement to share the losses.Carney \"turned his back on a very lucrative career in private banking to go into a public service job where his first job was to try and bang heads together and try and remedy an almost impossible situation\", said Cameron.\"A lot of people wouldn't want to get up in the morning if they had to face that kind of situation and he seems to have thrived on it.\"The Canadian banking system, which is made up of five large banks, has been ranked the most sound in the world five years in a row by the World Economic Forum, which praised it for being \"well-capitalised, well-managed and well-regulated\".Canadian banks make loans on a case-by-case basis, depending on the creditor's ability to repay. Many of the high-risk and complex financial instruments that exacerbated the subprime mortgage fiasco in the US do not exist in Canada. This prudence has proven key to Canada's performance compared to its neighbour, which jumped on to the exotic, and ultimately toxic, trades bandwagon peddled by Wall Street and City of London.While it is often boasted that after the 2008 financial crisis, Canadian banks didn't need a bailout, the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives has argued that Canadian banks profited from a secret bailout in the form if $114bn (7% of Canada's GDP) in emergency liquidity from the US Federal Reserve, the Bank of Canada and the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation, from October 2008 until well into 2010. The same thinktank has warned against excessive bragging about Canadian banks, calling it a \"myth of Canadian exceptionalism\" and insisting they are not \"immune to the temptations and threats that compromised banks in Europe, the US and around the world\".", "tags": ["Mark Carney", "Canada", "Bank of England", "Business", "UK news", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Mark Carney's appointment: the view from Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-02T09:46:05Z", "country": "canada", "content": "As the prize formerly known as the Orange continues its hunt for a headline sponsor, it's interesting to see that Canada and Australia have both just launched women-only literary prizes.The Stella prize, in Australia, is named after Stella Miles Franklin, the esteemed novelist whose bequest founded the country's most prestigious literary award, the Miles Franklin, which came under memorable attack last year for being a \"sausage fest\". No female author had made the shortlist for the second time in three years, and just 13 out of the award's 50 winners had been women.That changed this year when Anna Funder took the prize, but a group of women in the arts have founded the Stella award nonetheless, to \"raise the profile of women's writing\" with a prize pot of A$50,000 for the best work of fiction or non-fiction by a woman.In Canada, meanwhile, trade magazine Quill & Quire reports that the Rosalind prize is being set up. It's just for fiction, and it comes about due to the disparity in numbers discovered by the organisation Canadian Women in the Literary Arts: although looking at submissions for the Governor General's Literary Awards, \"women and men published books in near equal numbers in 2011 with 513 books published by men and 523 books published by women\", far fewer books by women were reviewed in the press (you can see the details here).\"I thought things were fine and equal here in Canada. I didn't realise the disparity until looking at the hard numbers,\" publisher Janice Zawerbny told Quill & Quire. \"It was really disheartening. Why is this happening in this day and age? It became the impetus or the rallying cry, sitting in the auditorium.\"The establishment of the Rosalind prize follows the discontinuation, in 2008, of Canada's Marian Engel award for female writers. There's an intriguing piece in the Globe and Mail by Leah McLaren about this.\"In Canada, women writers have been playing with the big boys for some time now,\" she writes. \"This is why, in 2008, when I was on the authors' committee of the Writers' Trust of Canada, we discontinued the Marian Engel award (for a woman writer in mid-career) and created the Engel/Findley award to honour a body of work by any established Canadian writer, male or female. Assessing the literary landscape, the committee decided that a gendered prize was no longer needed \u2013 and we were right. It was a wise choice, and one that reflected the progress (if not outright dominance) of female Canadian writers on a level playing-field.\"Clearly, not everyone in Canada agrees that there's a level playing-field these days. But as we in the UK discuss whether or not we still need the Women's prize for fiction \u2013 Hilary Mantel, after all, is fresh from her second Booker win \u2013 it's intriguing to note that other countries are starting their own versions.", "tags": ["Fiction", "Women's prize for fiction", "Books", "Awards and prizes", "Culture", "Women", "Life and style", "Equality", "Society", "Canada", "Australia news", "Americas", "World news", "Asia Pacific", "Corporate sponsorship"], "title": "Canada and Australia launch women's literary prizes"},{"date": "2012-11-30T09:53:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "As the co-operative movement globally tries to pull off the ambitious trick of converting this year's UN International Year of Co-operatives into the planned \"Co-operative Decade\", two women are at the forefront of the action. One is Dame Pauline Green, the leader in the 1990s of the social democratic group of MEPs in the European Parliament, and then from 2001 the first head of Co-operatives UK, and now, as president of the International Co-operative Alliance (ICA), a tireless global advocate for co-operative business. The other is the French Canadian Monique Leroux.Co-operatives worldwide, and especially Leroux's mighty Desjardins Group which she has led since 2008, can be grateful that she did not follow her original intention and become a concert pianist. A talented musician who studied as a young woman at the conservatoire in Qu\u00e9bec, she eventually chose a more orthodox career and qualified as an accountant. Seventeen years followed at Ernst and Young, then came a senior management appointment to the Royal Bank of Canada followed by a similar post at the Canadian media company Quebecor. And then, in 2001 when she was in her late forties, she moved to the co-operative sector, and to a senior post at Desjardins. The top job came to her seven years later, and earlier this year she was endorsed again for a second four-year term as president and chief executive of what is the world's fifth biggest financial services co-operative.Leroux has become a passionate advocate of the co-operative business model. This is the time, she told delegates at Manchester's recent Co-operatives United event, for co-operatives to assert themselves on the world stage. \"Co-operatives are a key part of the solution to the present crisis,\" she claimed.Desjardins itself is a major player in the Canadian economy. It has around 44,000 employees, assets of CAD 190bn (\u00a3120bn) and annual income of around CAD 11bn. Constituted as a federation of several hundred credit unions (mainly in Qu\u00e9bec province but also in other parts of Canada), the Desjardins Group is also an important household and life insurer in the Canadian market. It has a democratic structure that, with over 5,000 elected officers, puts even the UK's Co-operative Group's complicated democracy in the shade. It also has its own international development NGO in D\u00e9veloppement International Desjardins (DID).Ask Leroux about her priorities for her next four-year term and the first thing she emphasises is the need to stay close to the five million or so Desjardins credit union members and clients and to improve the services they receive. She adds that this is a principle that sounds simple to achieve but can be complicated in practice, as people increasing interact through phones and the internet rather than visiting their neighbouring caisse (credit union savings bank). One of her first acts as president was to reorganise and simplify Desjardins' way of working to improve its strategic development and performance, and she stresses the need for co-operatives to be ready to embrace change. \"All co-operatives need to be agile, to be innovative and to deliver strong performance for the long term,\" she says.Desjardins has recently begun to strengthen its position outside francophone Canada and links with some of the major credit unions in the rest of the country may well be on Leroux's wish list for the future. In the meantime, the recent acquisition of Calgary-based insurer and bank Western Financial provides an important bridgehead into anglophone Canada.Leroux says that other takeovers would be considered, but only if they fit Desjardins' growth strategy. \"We don't want acquisitions just for the sake of it,\" she adds. She stresses instead the potential for co-operatives to grow their businesses through partnership agreements with other co-operatives, rather than through the traditional M&A route favoured by corporate players. Desjardins has already begun to explore these possibilities, with a recent co-operative agreement with French bank Cr\u00e9dit Mutuel. As Leroux points out, several hundred of her Canadian business clients operate in European markets, and the tie-up allows Desjardins to increase the services it offers them. Conversely, Cr\u00e9dit Mutuel can use the partnership agreement to service French businesses active in the Canadian market.It was perhaps her sense of the growing importance of interaction between larger co-operatives that led Desjardins to host the co-operative summit, held in October in Qu\u00e9bec City. The summit represented a major financial and organisational undertaking for her co-operative (the total budget, Canadian sources suggest, was approaching CAD 10m) but the event is generally seen to have been highly successful, with almost 3,000 participants taking part. Leroux has now offered to do the whole thing all over again, in conjunction with the ICA, in late 2014. Her vision, it is becoming clear, is for a sort of co-operative Davos, a forum where the world's co-operative business leaders can come together for in-depth debate and business networking.In between directing her co-operative and overseeing arrangements for the Qu\u00e9bec summit, Leroux also found time this year to write a short book on the early days of Desjardins.Alphonse Desjardins, the founding father of the French Canadian credit union movement, was born in 1854 in L\u00e9vis (the small town across the St Lawrence river from Qu\u00e9bec city where the Desjardins Group is still based) and, shocked by the extortionate interest rates charged by the late 19th century Canadian equivalent of loan sharks, started the first neighbourhood based credit union in L\u00e9vis in 1900. The story of his efforts is one that Leroux clearly finds inspiring \u2013 although she also acknowledges the (rather less well-known) efforts put in by his wife Dorim\u00e8ne, who kept the vision of a network of credit unions alive after Alphonse's death in 1920.It is still unusual today to find a major financial institution led by a woman. The reason for Leroux's success could be, she says, precisely because Desjardins is a co-operative. The co-operative's president and chief executive is chosen democratically in a very open process by an electoral college of over 250 delegates. \"I'm not sure I would have been chosen by a [conventional Board] nominating committee,\" she says.She is not necessarily convinced by the prescriptive quota approach being discussed in the European union to achieve more women Board members, however, preferring to argue for targets instead. Desjardins is currently working to achieve better gender balance among its elected officers, for example.Her role as host at the Qu\u00e9bec summit and her guest presentations at Co-operatives United have propelled her, and her co-operative, into the limelight. \"We need greater visibility of co-operatives' achievements,\" she says. \"We are people-focused businesses, committed to our communities for the long-term\".This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the social enterprise network, click here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Co-operative Group", "Business", "Ethical business", "Canada", "Americas", "Social enterprise"], "title": "Financial co-operative Desjardins tests water beyond francophone Canada"},{"date": "2012-11-26T18:43:06Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Of all the delegations in the room in Doha, the Canadians adopt the lowest profile. Some question whether they should be there at all: The country's first and only Green party MP, Elizabeth May, said: \"Having Canada in the room negotiating to weaken the second Kyoto, when we have already signalled that not only will we not be participating in taking on new targets in the second period but we're legally withdrawn from the protocol, should make us pariahs.\"\"I can't imagine how anybody would want us in the room.\"Canada's current greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions are 23% over the country's Kyoto protocol target, and federal government estimates place Canada 28.8% over the target by 2014. Canada is the only country to have repudiated Kyoto, the sole legally binding international policy tool to date to deal with the emissions, and ranks just behind the US and Australia in the table of worst global emitters per capita.This is because of Canada's size, its cold climate and its resource-based economy, especially the energy-intensive, carbon-emissions-heavy oil boiled from large swaths of bitumen know as the Alberta tar sands.Canada holds the world's third-largest oil reserves, mostly concentrated in the western province of Alberta, the region that is the largest emitter of greenhouse gases. Where most provinces' GHG emissions have stabilised since 1990, Alberta's emissions have increased by 41%.The cornerstone of Prime Minister Stephen Harper's policy has been to try to approve key pipelines, such the Keystone XL, from Alberta to Texas, the Enbridge Northern Gateway, from Alberta to the West Coast, and Enbridge Line 9, an eastbound pipeline reversal that could see tar-sands crude pumped to Quebec and the Atlantic coast.Harper's 2012 budget bill, called C-38, replaced the entire Environmental Assessment Act in order to \"streamline\" approval of major oil and gas pipelines. The 2011 budget slashed funding for Environment Canada by over $222m (\u00a3140m), with cuts specifically to departments dealing with climate change, clean air, waste management and water resources.\"The environment assessment regime put in place in the past year would be a laughing stock in a developing country,\" said May. \"We have a government that is less concerned about climate than the CEOs of major oil companies.\"Canada has increasingly \"harmonised\" its energy and climate policy with the US, and in Copenhagen followed it on a non-binding agreement to \"reduce emissions by 17% below 2005 level by 2020\". But Canada-US harmonisation stops when it comes to investing in clean-energy jobs: were Canada to match the US on a per person basis, it would invest an additional $11bn. Canada provides less clean-energy stimulus than Saudi Arabia, China, Australia, France or the US.A recent study by labour and environmental groups estimates Canada could create more than 20,000 jobs if it invested the $1.3bn-a-year tax subsidy currently given to oil, coal and gas companies in emerging energy sectors such as wind, solar power and home retrofits.", "tags": ["Canada", "Kyoto protocol", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "COP18 Doha climate change conference", "Global climate talks", "Climate change", "Americas", "Environment", "Oil", "Commodities", "Business", "Oil", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Energy industry", "Tar sands", "World news"], "title": "Canada, the surprise 'pariah' of the Kyoto protocol"},{"date": "2012-11-29T21:29:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When the sea-battered cargo ship MV Sun Sea attempted to reach land off Vancouver Island on Canada's west coast in 2010 \u2013 overloaded with nearly 500 Tamil asylum seekers \u2013 its weary inhabitants couldn't have known that they would soon be used as political pawns in their chosen safe harbour of Canada, but that's exactly what happened.The Canadian government detained the men, women and children of the Sun Sea in a provincial prison for months \u2013 some for over a year \u2013 while raising the spectre of human smuggling and terrorism arriving on Canada's shores in the form of the Tamil Tigers.\"Canadian officials will look at all available options to strengthen our laws in order to address this unacceptable abuse of international law and Canadian generosity,\" the Canadian public safety minister, Vic Toews, said in a statement on the arrival of the Sun Sea. Fast forward to the present, and the government's response to the Sun Sea may have foreshadowed justifications for the profound changes now under way in Canada's immigration and refugee policies through the passage of Bill C-31 in June. It's an omnibus bill that further turns Canada into one of the only western countries that detains asylum seekers in prison facilities, according to the 2012 Global Detention Project report on Canada.Other than a few beds at Vancouver International Airport, British Columbia, unlike Ontario and Quebec, does not have dedicated immigration detention facilities. But like the other provinces, security is contracted out to the private sector. Nearly 200 male Sun Sea passengers and crew were housed in a makeshift detention area set up in the yard of the Fraser Regional Correctional Centre; women went to the Alouette Correctional Centre, and those with children went to the Burnaby Youth Custody Services Centre. There are two passengers still being detained, and two crew members facing charges relating to the voyage of the Sun Sea; it's been reported that 28 have been accepted as refugees, 43 have been rejected, and another 23 claims have been withdrawn. \"For me it's a complete waste of taxpayers' money, detaining these guys for such a long time and also the way they treated the children and the parents,\" said Sam Nalliah, a member of Vancouver's Tamil community who has been supporting the Sun Sea refugee claimants since they arrived. \"One guy came with his son; he was kept in the Maple Ridge Correctional Centre. They [the CBSA] don't have the facilities to keep the kids there, so they decided to keep the kid in the Burnaby Correctional Centre \u2013 at that age it can do a lot of psychological harm to the kids.\"\"I see it as particularly problematic that people are detained in facilities that are designed to be punitive \u2013 when in fact, they're not supposed to be punished at all,\" said Peter Edelman, a Vancouver-based immigration lawyer who is representing crew members of the Sun Sea.\"Living conditions at detention centres are like those at a two-star hotel with a bit of security,\" said federal Immigration Minister, Jason Kenney, during a House of Commons debate in June.\"The facility in Toronto was once a hotel; it's now been converted into a prison. The facility at Laval [Quebec] has always been a prison \u2013 it belongs to Corrections Canada. Certainly in both cases they're essentially prisons, they're operated as prisons,\" said Janet Cleveland, a psychologist at McGill University in Montreal who studies the effects of detention on asylum seekers.Speaking about the privately run Toronto Immigration Holding Centre (IHC) Cleveland added: \"There's high fences topped with razor wire, there's no freedom of movement within the facility from one section to another, there's surveillance cameras everywhere, there's security guards everywhere. People are searched when you move from one area to another.\"Toronto immigration lawyer Aadil Mangalji shares Cleveland's view of the Toronto IHC, pointing to the bars on the windows, and how men are housed on separate secured floors from the women and children. Visitors are separated from detainees by a glass partition, where they talk by phone. \"It feels like a jail,\" said Mangalji.Several lawyers and advocates for former or current detainees of the IHC stressed that generally detainees are reluctant to talk to the media for fear of upsetting their host country, while Nalliah claims that on the west coast some Sun Sea claimants were instructed specifically not to talk to the media upon their release from detention.The Canadian border services agency denied that claim in an emailed response to the Guardian.\"Most of these guys didn't complain about the conditions of the prison or their stay there. For them their treatment from the CBSA was pretty bad,\" said Nalliah, adding, \"This batch of refugees has been treated very shabbily.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "Prisons and probation", "World news", "Sri Lanka", "Human rights", "Tamil Tigers"], "title": "Canada accused of treating Tamil asylum seekers like prisoners"},{"date": "2013-03-11T10:47:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "On the flight to Edmonton, I sat next to Ted, a friendly giant with a pronounced Dutch/Irish accent. He told me how, unable to find work in Ireland, he was flying to Canada with the promise of a job. With the ice beginning to melt, he and thousands of others will work for the summer, cleaning up oil refineries before moving on to the next opportunity.This story happens to be true. But fans of Thomas \"world is flat\" Friedman will recognise its type from his New York Times OpEds. Friedman is fond of such globalisation parables, often snatched from receptionists or taxi drivers. As Richard Florida (pdf) and others have pointed out, we should not overlook the world's spikiness. Geography matters, even, or perhaps especially, when it comes to science and innovation. This is why we are so fascinated by Silicon Valley. If we follow Friedman, Silicon Valley could be anywhere, and yet the businesses and universities that populate it show no signs of upping sticks. While most of the rich world's cities stagnate, Edmonton is a notable boomtown. But it faces an identity crisis. It is North America's northernmost big city and the gateway to North Alberta's oil sands, at the upstream end of the much-debated Keystone XL pipeline. The oil is the source of the city's explosive growth. High oil prices have made the extraction of unconventional, dirty oil economically viable. This requires major capital investment and construction, dragging engineering and various service industries to the region. The city is acutely aware that it is sitting on a problem. Not only is it an ecological disaster zone, if we follow the arguments of the anti-Keystone activists, it is heavily dependent on oil, with its capricious price fluctuations, and desperate to diversify. The city's new strategic plan reflects its fossil fuel ambivalence:\"Edmonton is an energy city: Energy drawn from the ground and from above; from the sun and wind. But the true power of Edmonton is the democratic spark in its people. Edmonton is a city of design - urban design, architectural design, and environmental design. Walk its safe, leafy neighbourhoods, ride its efficient and accessible transportation system. The city has grown up; now we're building smarter.\" In much the same way as the gulf states are doing, Edmonton is trying to become a knowledge economy and it is looking to its scientists. I was in Alberta to help out with a workshop on nanotechnology and the future of the city, run by colleagues from the University of Alberta's City Region Studies Center. Academics at the University recognise the love-hate relationship with oil as well as anyone. Their funding waxes and wanes with the price of oil. Our task was to see whether and how nanotechnology (the city is also home to Canada's National Institute for Nanotechnology) might play a role in the city's future. We spoke for one and a half days with 35 local businesspeople, architects, scientists, artists, civil servants, planners and others about the various tensions that would shape Edmonton's future. There was plenty of scepticism, familiar from European discussions, about the novelty of nanotechnology: Was it one thing or many? Does it, as philosopher Alfred Nordmann has put it, \"promise everything and nothing in particular\"? Could the word \"technology\" just be substituted for \"nanotechnology\"? Even if nanotechnology is little more than symbolic, its introduction into a familiar conversation about place, planning and a city's future prompts new thinking. Rather than fixating on \"growth\" as a quantity, people began to talk about directions. Alberta is clear about its problems \u2013 from the ecological impacts of its vast oil sands to the potholes created by its bitter winters. These aren't going away any time soon, but they could be a spur for innovation. Nanotech could be a way to diversify the economy, but first it could be a way for the oil industry to clean up its act.The workshop inevitably struggled to nail down the wispy global promise of new technologies to this particular city, to find a place in Edmonton for nanotechnology and to find a place in nanotechnology for Edmonton. These sorts of exercises typically generate more questions than answers, but there was some indication of a way forward. Edmontonians talked about making theirs \"an experimental city\". They had an idea for a first step along this road: a \"pothole X-prize\". You heard it here first.", "tags": ["Science policy", "Science", "Canada"], "title": "Making sense of nanotechnology in northern Canada"},{"date": "2013-03-11T10:47:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "On the flight to Edmonton, I sat next to Ted, a friendly giant with a pronounced Dutch/Irish accent. He told me how, unable to find work in Ireland, he was flying to Canada with the promise of a job. With the ice beginning to melt, he and thousands of others will work for the summer, cleaning up oil refineries before moving on to the next opportunity.This story happens to be true. But fans of Thomas \"world is flat\" Friedman will recognise its type from his New York Times OpEds. Friedman is fond of such globalisation parables, often snatched from receptionists or taxi drivers. As Richard Florida (pdf) and others have pointed out, we should not overlook the world's spikiness. Geography matters, even, or perhaps especially, when it comes to science and innovation. This is why we are so fascinated by Silicon Valley. If we follow Friedman, Silicon Valley could be anywhere, and yet the businesses and universities that populate it show no signs of upping sticks. While most of the rich world's cities stagnate, Edmonton is a notable boomtown. But it faces an identity crisis. It is North America's northernmost big city and the gateway to North Alberta's oil sands, at the upstream end of the much-debated Keystone XL pipeline. The oil is the source of the city's explosive growth. High oil prices have made the extraction of unconventional, dirty oil economically viable. This requires major capital investment and construction, dragging engineering and various service industries to the region. The city is acutely aware that it is sitting on a problem. Not only is it an ecological disaster zone, if we follow the arguments of the anti-Keystone activists, it is heavily dependent on oil, with its capricious price fluctuations, and desperate to diversify. The city's new strategic plan reflects its fossil fuel ambivalence:\"Edmonton is an energy city: Energy drawn from the ground and from above; from the sun and wind. But the true power of Edmonton is the democratic spark in its people. Edmonton is a city of design - urban design, architectural design, and environmental design. Walk its safe, leafy neighbourhoods, ride its efficient and accessible transportation system. The city has grown up; now we're building smarter.\" In much the same way as the gulf states are doing, Edmonton is trying to become a knowledge economy and it is looking to its scientists. I was in Alberta to help out with a workshop on nanotechnology and the future of the city, run by colleagues from the University of Alberta's City Region Studies Center. Academics at the University recognise the love-hate relationship with oil as well as anyone. Their funding waxes and wanes with the price of oil. Our task was to see whether and how nanotechnology (the city is also home to Canada's National Institute for Nanotechnology) might play a role in the city's future. We spoke for one and a half days with 35 local businesspeople, architects, scientists, artists, civil servants, planners and others about the various tensions that would shape Edmonton's future. There was plenty of scepticism, familiar from European discussions, about the novelty of nanotechnology: Was it one thing or many? Does it, as philosopher Alfred Nordmann has put it, \"promise everything and nothing in particular\"? Could the word \"technology\" just be substituted for \"nanotechnology\"? Even if nanotechnology is little more than symbolic, its introduction into a familiar conversation about place, planning and a city's future prompts new thinking. Rather than fixating on \"growth\" as a quantity, people began to talk about directions. Alberta is clear about its problems \u2013 from the ecological impacts of its vast oil sands to the potholes created by its bitter winters. These aren't going away any time soon, but they could be a spur for innovation. Nanotech could be a way to diversify the economy, but first it could be a way for the oil industry to clean up its act.The workshop inevitably struggled to nail down the wispy global promise of new technologies to this particular city, to find a place in Edmonton for nanotechnology and to find a place in nanotechnology for Edmonton. These sorts of exercises typically generate more questions than answers, but there was some indication of a way forward. Edmontonians talked about making theirs \"an experimental city\". They had an idea for a first step along this road: a \"pothole X-prize\". You heard it here first.", "tags": ["Science policy", "Science", "Canada"], "title": "Making sense of nanotechnology in northern Canada"},{"date": "2013-03-13T21:04:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's opposition leader spoke out against the Keystone XL tar sands pipeline during a visit to Washington on Wednesday, breaking with the Canadian government's full-on lobbying push for the controversial project.In appearances around Washington, Thomas Mulcair, the leader of the New Democratic Party, was scathing of the Conservative government's environmental record and strongly suggested \u2013 without saying so explicitly \u2013 that he does not believe the pipeline is in Canada's interest.\"We would never have made this a priority if we had been a government,\" Mulcair told reporters after a speech at the Wilson Centre, a Washington thinktank on Wednesday.The remarks were a clear break with Canada's Conservative government, which has despatched cabinet officials and provincial premiers to Washington, New York and Chicago this month to push Barack Obama to approve the project.Mulcair's drew immediate fire from the natural resources minister and Alberta's premier, who accused the NDP leader of working against Canada's national interest. A number of conservative commentators in Canada speculated that the opposition leader could derail the project altogether.Mulcair, in prepared remarks and in comments to reporters, was highly critical of the Keystone XL's impact on Canada. He was careful to say the final decision on the project \u2013 now expected this summer \u2013 was for Obama to make. \"It's up to the Americans to take a decision,\" he said.But Mulcair said current development of the tar sands was exacting a heavy environmental cost. Pumping tar sands oil to America would cost 40,000 Canadian jobs, and would keep energy prices high inside Canada, Mulcair said.Instead of lobbying hard for a pipeline south, to refineries on the Gulf coast, Mulcair said his government would have focused on getting tar sands crude to market through Canadian east coast ports. \"We would make sure that we bring the product from west to east. We would take care of our energy security. We would create jobs in Canada, and we would get a better price for our producers,\" he said.Mulcair's remarks \u2013 though he stopped short of explicitly opposing the pipeline \u2013 were in sharp contrast with the line promoted by the Conservative government of Stephen Harper, which has said the Keystone XL project is critical to Canada's economy.The Canadian government has conducted an aggressive lobbying effort for Keystone XL \u2013 stepping up its campaign after the installation of John Kerry as secretary of state. Kerry must sign off on the project because its crosses the international border.The State Department took a step towards approval earlier this month when it released a review saying the pipeline would have no negative impact on the environment.Mulcair, however, has been withering in his comments this week about Canada's environmental record under Harper and the wisdom of building a pipeline to the south.He told one audience on Tuesday that the Conservatives were \"playing people for fools\" by touting their green credentials while dismantling environmental regulations and pulling Canada out of the Kyoto protocols on climate change.Mulcair contrasted Harper unfavourably with Obama, and his recent stirring speeches on climate change \"If we have a 2, 3, 4C increase in temperature over the next decade we are going to wreak havoc on all species,\" he said.The NDP leader went on to cast the Conservative government as being at odds with Canadian traditions.\"The Canada that Conservatives are projecting on the world stage right now is no longer recognisable to a lot of the countries we worked closely with over the decades, and it's no longer recognisable to ourselves,\" Mulcair said following his prepared remarks.\"Fighting any serious attempt to deal with issue of climate change, withdrawing us from Kyoto lecturing at the United Nations, calling them a bunch of dictators, hectoring \u2026 it's not productive It's a way to appease your strong rightwing base, but it's not a way to move forward.\"", "tags": ["Keystone XL pipeline", "Tar sands", "Oil", "Canada", "Oil and gas companies", "Business", "Oil", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Environment"], "title": "Keystone XL pipeline not good for Canada, opposition leader suggests"},{"date": "2013-03-11T10:47:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "On the flight to Edmonton, I sat next to Ted, a friendly giant with a pronounced Dutch/Irish accent. He told me how, unable to find work in Ireland, he was flying to Canada with the promise of a job. With the ice beginning to melt, he and thousands of others will work for the summer, cleaning up oil refineries before moving on to the next opportunity.This story happens to be true. But fans of Thomas \"world is flat\" Friedman will recognise its type from his New York Times OpEds. Friedman is fond of such globalisation parables, often snatched from receptionists or taxi drivers. As Richard Florida (pdf) and others have pointed out, we should not overlook the world's spikiness. Geography matters, even, or perhaps especially, when it comes to science and innovation. This is why we are so fascinated by Silicon Valley. If we follow Friedman, Silicon Valley could be anywhere, and yet the businesses and universities that populate it show no signs of upping sticks. While most of the rich world's cities stagnate, Edmonton is a notable boomtown. But it faces an identity crisis. It is North America's northernmost big city and the gateway to North Alberta's oil sands, at the upstream end of the much-debated Keystone XL pipeline. The oil is the source of the city's explosive growth. High oil prices have made the extraction of unconventional, dirty oil economically viable. This requires major capital investment and construction, dragging engineering and various service industries to the region. The city is acutely aware that it is sitting on a problem. Not only is it an ecological disaster zone, if we follow the arguments of the anti-Keystone activists, it is heavily dependent on oil, with its capricious price fluctuations, and desperate to diversify. The city's new strategic plan reflects its fossil fuel ambivalence:\"Edmonton is an energy city: Energy drawn from the ground and from above; from the sun and wind. But the true power of Edmonton is the democratic spark in its people. Edmonton is a city of design - urban design, architectural design, and environmental design. Walk its safe, leafy neighbourhoods, ride its efficient and accessible transportation system. The city has grown up; now we're building smarter.\" In much the same way as the gulf states are doing, Edmonton is trying to become a knowledge economy and it is looking to its scientists. I was in Alberta to help out with a workshop on nanotechnology and the future of the city, run by colleagues from the University of Alberta's City Region Studies Center. Academics at the University recognise the love-hate relationship with oil as well as anyone. Their funding waxes and wanes with the price of oil. Our task was to see whether and how nanotechnology (the city is also home to Canada's National Institute for Nanotechnology) might play a role in the city's future. We spoke for one and a half days with 35 local businesspeople, architects, scientists, artists, civil servants, planners and others about the various tensions that would shape Edmonton's future. There was plenty of scepticism, familiar from European discussions, about the novelty of nanotechnology: Was it one thing or many? Does it, as philosopher Alfred Nordmann has put it, \"promise everything and nothing in particular\"? Could the word \"technology\" just be substituted for \"nanotechnology\"? Even if nanotechnology is little more than symbolic, its introduction into a familiar conversation about place, planning and a city's future prompts new thinking. Rather than fixating on \"growth\" as a quantity, people began to talk about directions. Alberta is clear about its problems \u2013 from the ecological impacts of its vast oil sands to the potholes created by its bitter winters. These aren't going away any time soon, but they could be a spur for innovation. Nanotech could be a way to diversify the economy, but first it could be a way for the oil industry to clean up its act.The workshop inevitably struggled to nail down the wispy global promise of new technologies to this particular city, to find a place in Edmonton for nanotechnology and to find a place in nanotechnology for Edmonton. These sorts of exercises typically generate more questions than answers, but there was some indication of a way forward. Edmontonians talked about making theirs \"an experimental city\". They had an idea for a first step along this road: a \"pothole X-prize\". You heard it here first.", "tags": ["Science policy", "Science", "Canada"], "title": "Making sense of nanotechnology in northern Canada"},{"date": "2013-03-13T21:04:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's opposition leader spoke out against the Keystone XL tar sands pipeline during a visit to Washington on Wednesday, breaking with the Canadian government's full-on lobbying push for the controversial project.In appearances around Washington, Thomas Mulcair, the leader of the New Democratic Party, was scathing of the Conservative government's environmental record and strongly suggested \u2013 without saying so explicitly \u2013 that he does not believe the pipeline is in Canada's interest.\"We would never have made this a priority if we had been a government,\" Mulcair told reporters after a speech at the Wilson Centre, a Washington thinktank on Wednesday.The remarks were a clear break with Canada's Conservative government, which has despatched cabinet officials and provincial premiers to Washington, New York and Chicago this month to push Barack Obama to approve the project.Mulcair's drew immediate fire from the natural resources minister and Alberta's premier, who accused the NDP leader of working against Canada's national interest. A number of conservative commentators in Canada speculated that the opposition leader could derail the project altogether.Mulcair, in prepared remarks and in comments to reporters, was highly critical of the Keystone XL's impact on Canada. He was careful to say the final decision on the project \u2013 now expected this summer \u2013 was for Obama to make. \"It's up to the Americans to take a decision,\" he said.But Mulcair said current development of the tar sands was exacting a heavy environmental cost. Pumping tar sands oil to America would cost 40,000 Canadian jobs, and would keep energy prices high inside Canada, Mulcair said.Instead of lobbying hard for a pipeline south, to refineries on the Gulf coast, Mulcair said his government would have focused on getting tar sands crude to market through Canadian east coast ports. \"We would make sure that we bring the product from west to east. We would take care of our energy security. We would create jobs in Canada, and we would get a better price for our producers,\" he said.Mulcair's remarks \u2013 though he stopped short of explicitly opposing the pipeline \u2013 were in sharp contrast with the line promoted by the Conservative government of Stephen Harper, which has said the Keystone XL project is critical to Canada's economy.The Canadian government has conducted an aggressive lobbying effort for Keystone XL \u2013 stepping up its campaign after the installation of John Kerry as secretary of state. Kerry must sign off on the project because its crosses the international border.The State Department took a step towards approval earlier this month when it released a review saying the pipeline would have no negative impact on the environment.Mulcair, however, has been withering in his comments this week about Canada's environmental record under Harper and the wisdom of building a pipeline to the south.He told one audience on Tuesday that the Conservatives were \"playing people for fools\" by touting their green credentials while dismantling environmental regulations and pulling Canada out of the Kyoto protocols on climate change.Mulcair contrasted Harper unfavourably with Obama, and his recent stirring speeches on climate change \"If we have a 2, 3, 4C increase in temperature over the next decade we are going to wreak havoc on all species,\" he said.The NDP leader went on to cast the Conservative government as being at odds with Canadian traditions.\"The Canada that Conservatives are projecting on the world stage right now is no longer recognisable to a lot of the countries we worked closely with over the decades, and it's no longer recognisable to ourselves,\" Mulcair said following his prepared remarks.\"Fighting any serious attempt to deal with issue of climate change, withdrawing us from Kyoto lecturing at the United Nations, calling them a bunch of dictators, hectoring \u2026 it's not productive It's a way to appease your strong rightwing base, but it's not a way to move forward.\"", "tags": ["Keystone XL pipeline", "Tar sands", "Oil", "Canada", "Oil and gas companies", "Business", "Oil", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Environment"], "title": "Keystone XL pipeline not good for Canada, opposition leader suggests"},{"date": "2013-02-27T15:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Now is the deepest winter of discontent in UK housing for 30 years. Half a decade of recession and credit rationing have depressed housing values and reduced market investment to the lowest levels in half a century. Public investment has been slashed, and the flow of new housing, especially for the poorest households, has slowed to a trickle. The next half decade offers the prospect of continuing market sluggishness and deepening cuts in investment and welfare budgets.Increased government investment is needed, but there is unlikely to be any fast return to large-scale public funds for housing, even as the economy recovers. With rising household numbers and stagnant incomes, the gap between provision and needs is growing alarmingly, and if austerity continues, so will the housing crisis.Badly designed housing policy exacerbates the effects of deep cuts. However, there is still hope for a better housing system in Britain.Over the last year the University of St Andrews has facilitated a conversation between Places for People and Glasgow Housing Association, and leading non-profit housing organisations in Norway, Australia and Canada. In the latter two countries, non-profit organisations have had to survive, even thrive, in tough times for more than a decade.There are common opportunities as well as constraints. Housing providers are affected by budget cuts in both housing investment and welfare programmes in all the countries involved. This is not a new experience for providers in Canada and Australia. With reduced programmes of government support since the mid-1990s, they have evolved new organisational cultures and performance approaches.The partners concluded that although the financial crisis may have been the trigger to change, there were already potential new opportunities emerging for the sector. New demographics, environmental change and patterns of increasing income inequality and growing income segregation create tough challenges but also potential new business lines.Home-ownership still dominates provision and policy in all the countries. Rising overall rates of home ownership masked the falling rates for the under-35s in the partner countries since the mid-1990s. Overall growth in demand was mainly met in market rental housing, largely by mum and dad investors with inefficient financing, amateur management and temporary commitment.With growing numbers of younger households living longer in increasingly expensive market rental sectors ambitions for saving as well as ownership were eroded. The market failures in the sector are obvious, and there is a clear consensus on the imperative to develop an efficient, trusted, mid-market rental sector that could attract equity investment.New demographics also mean growing proportions of older households with increased longevity. There are now complex and expensive pathways through housing, care and health provision in our later lives. Dignified moves along these pathways are hampered by market failures just as public resources are becoming constrained.Pervasive market failures in housing markets and related service provision, as well as rising inequalities, define the new times. Non-profit organisations recognised that the subsidised activities of providing affordable, adequate housing for the poor and remaking poorer places will always be core business activities. They also agreed that notions of affordability had become muddled in policy design and that greater clarity was needed to highlight progress for the poor.However, these providers also stressed that housing policy is not just about affordability and that shaping and unleashing institutions with capacities to deal with market failures should be a key concern. Governments have failed to fashion better housing systems in the rush to make cuts and turned a blind eye to new ways of doing old business.Non-profit provision should not just be for the poor: prosperous parents with twentysomething children forced to live at home have an interest in better rental markets and housing savings routes; middle-aged children with parents in their eighties are seeking caring providers to help them manage the ageing of their parents.While non-profits become no less social, they have to become more entrepreneurial. They can become more efficient and do more with less. Changes to government subsidies can encourage this process as they have become contestable, with private and non-profit providers competing directly for support. Housing providers have to seek partners (municipalities, charities, employers) with additional resources to support deeper subsidies for particular clients.These pressures have made Canadian and Australian providers more effective than their UK counterparts in giving more attention to managing property portfolios with better developed disposal and leveraging skills. The best (often largest) housing providers in the UK have already recognised these challenges. Glasgow Housing Association, for example, is unrecognisable as the heir to Glasgow's council housing department. Wider scope and bigger scale not only spread overhead costs but allow surpluses in market activities to fund subsidised activities.Yet in this new world, smaller community-based providers should not be left moribund, hunkering down on historically accumulated grants. That way government will kill off the real \"big society\" where it actually exists and matters.Where is the strategy for change? It does not exist, but it can be built. If a small academic discussion \u2013 unsupported by any government funding \u2013 could identify so many ideas for change, imagine what a larger discussion that includes government might accomplish? Surely this kind of co-operation would lead to a more effective housing system, stronger communities and better lives for those that share them. This discussion is just beginning.Duncan Maclennan is director of the Centre for Housing Research at the University of St Andrews. Sharon Chisholm is the former executive director of the Canadian Housing and Renewal Association and leads on knowledge exchange at the Centre for Housing Research. The results of the international conversation are free to download at st-andrews.ac.uk/chrThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Join the housing network for opinion, analysis and the latest career opportunities in your area", "tags": ["Housing Network", "Future of housing hub", "Policy", "Practice", "Finance", "Social housing", "Public services policy", "Public finance"], "title": "Global housing crisis: Australia, Canada and UK face common questions"},{"date": "2013-03-11T10:47:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "On the flight to Edmonton, I sat next to Ted, a friendly giant with a pronounced Dutch/Irish accent. He told me how, unable to find work in Ireland, he was flying to Canada with the promise of a job. With the ice beginning to melt, he and thousands of others will work for the summer, cleaning up oil refineries before moving on to the next opportunity.This story happens to be true. But fans of Thomas \"world is flat\" Friedman will recognise its type from his New York Times OpEds. Friedman is fond of such globalisation parables, often snatched from receptionists or taxi drivers. As Richard Florida (pdf) and others have pointed out, we should not overlook the world's spikiness. Geography matters, even, or perhaps especially, when it comes to science and innovation. This is why we are so fascinated by Silicon Valley. If we follow Friedman, Silicon Valley could be anywhere, and yet the businesses and universities that populate it show no signs of upping sticks. While most of the rich world's cities stagnate, Edmonton is a notable boomtown. But it faces an identity crisis. It is North America's northernmost big city and the gateway to North Alberta's oil sands, at the upstream end of the much-debated Keystone XL pipeline. The oil is the source of the city's explosive growth. High oil prices have made the extraction of unconventional, dirty oil economically viable. This requires major capital investment and construction, dragging engineering and various service industries to the region. The city is acutely aware that it is sitting on a problem. Not only is it an ecological disaster zone, if we follow the arguments of the anti-Keystone activists, it is heavily dependent on oil, with its capricious price fluctuations, and desperate to diversify. The city's new strategic plan reflects its fossil fuel ambivalence:\"Edmonton is an energy city: Energy drawn from the ground and from above; from the sun and wind. But the true power of Edmonton is the democratic spark in its people. Edmonton is a city of design - urban design, architectural design, and environmental design. Walk its safe, leafy neighbourhoods, ride its efficient and accessible transportation system. The city has grown up; now we're building smarter.\" In much the same way as the gulf states are doing, Edmonton is trying to become a knowledge economy and it is looking to its scientists. I was in Alberta to help out with a workshop on nanotechnology and the future of the city, run by colleagues from the University of Alberta's City Region Studies Center. Academics at the University recognise the love-hate relationship with oil as well as anyone. Their funding waxes and wanes with the price of oil. Our task was to see whether and how nanotechnology (the city is also home to Canada's National Institute for Nanotechnology) might play a role in the city's future. We spoke for one and a half days with 35 local businesspeople, architects, scientists, artists, civil servants, planners and others about the various tensions that would shape Edmonton's future. There was plenty of scepticism, familiar from European discussions, about the novelty of nanotechnology: Was it one thing or many? Does it, as philosopher Alfred Nordmann has put it, \"promise everything and nothing in particular\"? Could the word \"technology\" just be substituted for \"nanotechnology\"? Even if nanotechnology is little more than symbolic, its introduction into a familiar conversation about place, planning and a city's future prompts new thinking. Rather than fixating on \"growth\" as a quantity, people began to talk about directions. Alberta is clear about its problems \u2013 from the ecological impacts of its vast oil sands to the potholes created by its bitter winters. These aren't going away any time soon, but they could be a spur for innovation. Nanotech could be a way to diversify the economy, but first it could be a way for the oil industry to clean up its act.The workshop inevitably struggled to nail down the wispy global promise of new technologies to this particular city, to find a place in Edmonton for nanotechnology and to find a place in nanotechnology for Edmonton. These sorts of exercises typically generate more questions than answers, but there was some indication of a way forward. Edmontonians talked about making theirs \"an experimental city\". They had an idea for a first step along this road: a \"pothole X-prize\". You heard it here first.", "tags": ["Science policy", "Science", "Canada"], "title": "Making sense of nanotechnology in northern Canada"},{"date": "2013-03-13T21:04:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada's opposition leader spoke out against the Keystone XL tar sands pipeline during a visit to Washington on Wednesday, breaking with the Canadian government's full-on lobbying push for the controversial project.In appearances around Washington, Thomas Mulcair, the leader of the New Democratic Party, was scathing of the Conservative government's environmental record and strongly suggested \u2013 without saying so explicitly \u2013 that he does not believe the pipeline is in Canada's interest.\"We would never have made this a priority if we had been a government,\" Mulcair told reporters after a speech at the Wilson Centre, a Washington thinktank on Wednesday.The remarks were a clear break with Canada's Conservative government, which has despatched cabinet officials and provincial premiers to Washington, New York and Chicago this month to push Barack Obama to approve the project.Mulcair's drew immediate fire from the natural resources minister and Alberta's premier, who accused the NDP leader of working against Canada's national interest. A number of conservative commentators in Canada speculated that the opposition leader could derail the project altogether.Mulcair, in prepared remarks and in comments to reporters, was highly critical of the Keystone XL's impact on Canada. He was careful to say the final decision on the project \u2013 now expected this summer \u2013 was for Obama to make. \"It's up to the Americans to take a decision,\" he said.But Mulcair said current development of the tar sands was exacting a heavy environmental cost. Pumping tar sands oil to America would cost 40,000 Canadian jobs, and would keep energy prices high inside Canada, Mulcair said.Instead of lobbying hard for a pipeline south, to refineries on the Gulf coast, Mulcair said his government would have focused on getting tar sands crude to market through Canadian east coast ports. \"We would make sure that we bring the product from west to east. We would take care of our energy security. We would create jobs in Canada, and we would get a better price for our producers,\" he said.Mulcair's remarks \u2013 though he stopped short of explicitly opposing the pipeline \u2013 were in sharp contrast with the line promoted by the Conservative government of Stephen Harper, which has said the Keystone XL project is critical to Canada's economy.The Canadian government has conducted an aggressive lobbying effort for Keystone XL \u2013 stepping up its campaign after the installation of John Kerry as secretary of state. Kerry must sign off on the project because its crosses the international border.The State Department took a step towards approval earlier this month when it released a review saying the pipeline would have no negative impact on the environment.Mulcair, however, has been withering in his comments this week about Canada's environmental record under Harper and the wisdom of building a pipeline to the south.He told one audience on Tuesday that the Conservatives were \"playing people for fools\" by touting their green credentials while dismantling environmental regulations and pulling Canada out of the Kyoto protocols on climate change.Mulcair contrasted Harper unfavourably with Obama, and his recent stirring speeches on climate change \"If we have a 2, 3, 4C increase in temperature over the next decade we are going to wreak havoc on all species,\" he said.The NDP leader went on to cast the Conservative government as being at odds with Canadian traditions.\"The Canada that Conservatives are projecting on the world stage right now is no longer recognisable to a lot of the countries we worked closely with over the decades, and it's no longer recognisable to ourselves,\" Mulcair said following his prepared remarks.\"Fighting any serious attempt to deal with issue of climate change, withdrawing us from Kyoto lecturing at the United Nations, calling them a bunch of dictators, hectoring \u2026 it's not productive It's a way to appease your strong rightwing base, but it's not a way to move forward.\"", "tags": ["Keystone XL pipeline", "Tar sands", "Oil", "Canada", "Oil and gas companies", "Business", "Oil", "US foreign policy", "US news", "World news", "Environment"], "title": "Keystone XL pipeline not good for Canada, opposition leader suggests"},{"date": "2013-02-27T15:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Now is the deepest winter of discontent in UK housing for 30 years. Half a decade of recession and credit rationing have depressed housing values and reduced market investment to the lowest levels in half a century. Public investment has been slashed, and the flow of new housing, especially for the poorest households, has slowed to a trickle. The next half decade offers the prospect of continuing market sluggishness and deepening cuts in investment and welfare budgets.Increased government investment is needed, but there is unlikely to be any fast return to large-scale public funds for housing, even as the economy recovers. With rising household numbers and stagnant incomes, the gap between provision and needs is growing alarmingly, and if austerity continues, so will the housing crisis.Badly designed housing policy exacerbates the effects of deep cuts. However, there is still hope for a better housing system in Britain.Over the last year the University of St Andrews has facilitated a conversation between Places for People and Glasgow Housing Association, and leading non-profit housing organisations in Norway, Australia and Canada. In the latter two countries, non-profit organisations have had to survive, even thrive, in tough times for more than a decade.There are common opportunities as well as constraints. Housing providers are affected by budget cuts in both housing investment and welfare programmes in all the countries involved. This is not a new experience for providers in Canada and Australia. With reduced programmes of government support since the mid-1990s, they have evolved new organisational cultures and performance approaches.The partners concluded that although the financial crisis may have been the trigger to change, there were already potential new opportunities emerging for the sector. New demographics, environmental change and patterns of increasing income inequality and growing income segregation create tough challenges but also potential new business lines.Home-ownership still dominates provision and policy in all the countries. Rising overall rates of home ownership masked the falling rates for the under-35s in the partner countries since the mid-1990s. Overall growth in demand was mainly met in market rental housing, largely by mum and dad investors with inefficient financing, amateur management and temporary commitment.With growing numbers of younger households living longer in increasingly expensive market rental sectors ambitions for saving as well as ownership were eroded. The market failures in the sector are obvious, and there is a clear consensus on the imperative to develop an efficient, trusted, mid-market rental sector that could attract equity investment.New demographics also mean growing proportions of older households with increased longevity. There are now complex and expensive pathways through housing, care and health provision in our later lives. Dignified moves along these pathways are hampered by market failures just as public resources are becoming constrained.Pervasive market failures in housing markets and related service provision, as well as rising inequalities, define the new times. Non-profit organisations recognised that the subsidised activities of providing affordable, adequate housing for the poor and remaking poorer places will always be core business activities. They also agreed that notions of affordability had become muddled in policy design and that greater clarity was needed to highlight progress for the poor.However, these providers also stressed that housing policy is not just about affordability and that shaping and unleashing institutions with capacities to deal with market failures should be a key concern. Governments have failed to fashion better housing systems in the rush to make cuts and turned a blind eye to new ways of doing old business.Non-profit provision should not just be for the poor: prosperous parents with twentysomething children forced to live at home have an interest in better rental markets and housing savings routes; middle-aged children with parents in their eighties are seeking caring providers to help them manage the ageing of their parents.While non-profits become no less social, they have to become more entrepreneurial. They can become more efficient and do more with less. Changes to government subsidies can encourage this process as they have become contestable, with private and non-profit providers competing directly for support. Housing providers have to seek partners (municipalities, charities, employers) with additional resources to support deeper subsidies for particular clients.These pressures have made Canadian and Australian providers more effective than their UK counterparts in giving more attention to managing property portfolios with better developed disposal and leveraging skills. The best (often largest) housing providers in the UK have already recognised these challenges. Glasgow Housing Association, for example, is unrecognisable as the heir to Glasgow's council housing department. Wider scope and bigger scale not only spread overhead costs but allow surpluses in market activities to fund subsidised activities.Yet in this new world, smaller community-based providers should not be left moribund, hunkering down on historically accumulated grants. That way government will kill off the real \"big society\" where it actually exists and matters.Where is the strategy for change? It does not exist, but it can be built. If a small academic discussion \u2013 unsupported by any government funding \u2013 could identify so many ideas for change, imagine what a larger discussion that includes government might accomplish? Surely this kind of co-operation would lead to a more effective housing system, stronger communities and better lives for those that share them. This discussion is just beginning.Duncan Maclennan is director of the Centre for Housing Research at the University of St Andrews. Sharon Chisholm is the former executive director of the Canadian Housing and Renewal Association and leads on knowledge exchange at the Centre for Housing Research. The results of the international conversation are free to download at st-andrews.ac.uk/chrThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. Join the housing network for opinion, analysis and the latest career opportunities in your area", "tags": ["Housing Network", "Future of housing hub", "Policy", "Practice", "Finance", "Social housing", "Public services policy", "Public finance"], "title": "Global housing crisis: Australia, Canada and UK face common questions"},{"date": "2013-02-03T00:05:47Z", "country": "canada", "content": "We ought to have seen it coming last year when Conrad Black lumbered around London's TV studios plugging his latest book \u2013 and labelling Jeremy Paxman a \"priggish, gullible, British fool\" along the way. Oh the wonder at seeing a baleful bear of notoriety snarling and snapping at Paxo, Adam Boulton and Co! What on earth could he do next? Silly question: obvious answer. Black was surly and snarly enough to make a great talk-show host himself.And so it comes to pass, in Canada to begin with, as Conrad takes over half the presenting duties on something called The Zoomer \u2013 Television for Boomers with zip \u2013 which, being interpreted, means current affairs for those in late middle-age. He will offer an interview \"with some of the world's greats\" each week, plus a feature slot called, inevitably, Talk Black, where he can play grumpy old ex-newspaper proprietor and prison reformer to his heart's content.\"If ever you're giving a dinner party, this is the guy you want to invite,\" says Black's new boss, Moses Znaimer. Yet somehow, far in the distance, you can hear Paxo singing a new song for Moses. \"Who's gullible now?\"Sir Ray Tindle ought, at 87, to be putting his feet up, not buying ever more struggling newspapers and putting his private company profits up by 278% in 2012 (on the latest figures). But then Ray is the wisest, canniest old bird around. They laughed a couple of years back when he began buying shares in Johnston Press at 4.5p a time. But now JP is up to 12.5p and Ray, with more than 51m of them, has seen his bank account take a \u00a33.1m bounce \u2013 bigger, as it happens, than the \u00a31.52m profit his papers have just recorded. Life changing as recession recedes? Perhaps. But life-affirming? Absolutely.", "tags": ["Television industry", "Television", "Media", "Conrad Black"], "title": "Conrad Black lands TV talk-show job in Canada"},{"date": "2013-06-21T07:00:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The idea was to have a place where social innovators could work. In 2004, five social entrepreneurs tested this idea by turning 5,000 of the 100,000 sq ft Robertson Building, an early 1900 Edwardian style structure that was once used as a manufacturing warehouse for the James Robertson Company in Toronto, into a shared workspace.The idea became a success and the demand was enormous. Individuals and organisations were put on a waiting list. By 2009, the Centre for Social Innovation (CSI) occupied more than 20,000 sq ft of the Robertson Building and then there was even more demand.When the opportunity came up to expand with another building in the heart of Toronto, there was only one problem: money. The centre had to find $6.5m (\u00a34m) to cover the purchase and renovations for the 36,000 sq ft building. They first went to the City of Toronto and were able to secure a loan guarantee, which allowed them to shop for a better $4.5m mortgage with Alterna Savings & Credit Union. This meant they still had to raise $2m.Birth of the Community BondWith a lack of money but a willing community the idea of a community bond was born. A community bond is a debt instrument that allowed CSI, the issuer of the bond, to promise its community of lenders, the holders of the bond, the principal amount borrowed plus 4% interest over five years. Because the bond was backed by an asset, bondholders could place them in their registered retirement saving plans. CSI ended up raising $1.4m in the first four months and eventually the full amount to fund what is known today as the CSI Annex.The story of CSI is not uncommon but the growth of social innovation in Canada, as exemplified by CSI's overcrowding problem, has triggered a great demand for channeling investments into initiatives that deliver a mixture of positive social and environmental impact and financial returns, often referred to as \"social investment\" or \"impact investment\". Today, CSI operates three shared workspaces in Toronto and a fourth in Manhattan, New York, that opened last month.Based on the success of the community bond and a desire to mobilise money for socially innovative projects, other organisations have created their own bonds. In December of 2011, the YWCA Toronto issued a $1m community bond to fund 300 affordable housing units for women and children. Purchased by the Muttart Foundation, the bond carries a 10-year term and pays 4% interest annually. Community bonds are also used for financing local solar energy projects and food markets.Government catches onThere has been a spur of successfully operating social finance initiatives across Canada in the last few years. To name just three, the Desjardins Group has established microcredit programmes to provide individuals and entrepreneurs small interest-free loans that have two- to five-year payback periods. Provided that they agree to lessons in budgeting, employability, and starting a business, these loans are available to those who are traditionally excluded from the financial market, such as single parents, Aboriginal people living off reserve, and new Canadians.Another example, the Youth Social Innovation Capital Fund provides micro-loans and non-financial support for young social entrepreneurs to develop their ideas. There's also Resilient Capital, a $15m fund formed by a credit union, Vancity, and the Vancouver Foundation to invest in social enterprises. In fact, Resilient Capital was established with a grant from the Government of British Columbia.What's happening is that government has caught on to the notion of using social finance to build better communities. Last November, the government of Canada launched a national call for concepts to seek \"investment ready\" social finance projects to develop and expand. More than 150 submissions were received, including ideas for using social impact bonds, social investment funds, and social enterprises.Full speed aheadA 2012 report published by the Social Investment Organization estimates Canadian impact investing assets, defined as those aimed at solving social or environmental problems, are at $5.3bn, which is a 20% increase since 2010. The government of Canada vows to continue outreach, connect key players together, sharpen ideas and test social finance tools.Likewise in the UK, the development of social finance initiatives is moving full speed ahead. David Cameron took advantage of the UK presidency of the G8 to set the agenda on social investment while announcing three new major initiatives at home: tax breaks for social investment, the Social Stock Exchange, and a \u00a3250m commitment from the Big Society Capital and Big Lottery Fund to help communities buy local assets such as pubs, shops, and community centres.Social problems have \"frustrated government after government, country after country, generation after generation\", the prime minister said, \"I want to use our G8 Presidency to push this agenda forward. We will work with other G8 nations to grow the social investment market and increase investment, allowing the best social innovations to spread and help tackle our shared social and economic challenges.\"This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the Guardian Social Enterprise Network, click here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Social enterprises", "Society", "Social enterprise"], "title": "Social innovation triggers impact investment in Canada"},{"date": "2013-06-21T07:00:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The idea was to have a place where social innovators could work. In 2004, five social entrepreneurs tested this idea by turning 5,000 of the 100,000 sq ft Robertson Building, an early 1900 Edwardian style structure that was once used as a manufacturing warehouse for the James Robertson Company in Toronto, into a shared workspace.The idea became a success and the demand was enormous. Individuals and organisations were put on a waiting list. By 2009, the Centre for Social Innovation (CSI) occupied more than 20,000 sq ft of the Robertson Building and then there was even more demand.When the opportunity came up to expand with another building in the heart of Toronto, there was only one problem: money. The centre had to find $6.5m (\u00a34m) to cover the purchase and renovations for the 36,000 sq ft building. They first went to the City of Toronto and were able to secure a loan guarantee, which allowed them to shop for a better $4.5m mortgage with Alterna Savings & Credit Union. This meant they still had to raise $2m.Birth of the Community BondWith a lack of money but a willing community the idea of a community bond was born. A community bond is a debt instrument that allowed CSI, the issuer of the bond, to promise its community of lenders, the holders of the bond, the principal amount borrowed plus 4% interest over five years. Because the bond was backed by an asset, bondholders could place them in their registered retirement saving plans. CSI ended up raising $1.4m in the first four months and eventually the full amount to fund what is known today as the CSI Annex.The story of CSI is not uncommon but the growth of social innovation in Canada, as exemplified by CSI's overcrowding problem, has triggered a great demand for channeling investments into initiatives that deliver a mixture of positive social and environmental impact and financial returns, often referred to as \"social investment\" or \"impact investment\". Today, CSI operates three shared workspaces in Toronto and a fourth in Manhattan, New York, that opened last month.Based on the success of the community bond and a desire to mobilise money for socially innovative projects, other organisations have created their own bonds. In December of 2011, the YWCA Toronto issued a $1m community bond to fund 300 affordable housing units for women and children. Purchased by the Muttart Foundation, the bond carries a 10-year term and pays 4% interest annually. Community bonds are also used for financing local solar energy projects and food markets.Government catches onThere has been a spur of successfully operating social finance initiatives across Canada in the last few years. To name just three, the Desjardins Group has established microcredit programmes to provide individuals and entrepreneurs small interest-free loans that have two- to five-year payback periods. Provided that they agree to lessons in budgeting, employability, and starting a business, these loans are available to those who are traditionally excluded from the financial market, such as single parents, Aboriginal people living off reserve, and new Canadians.Another example, the Youth Social Innovation Capital Fund provides micro-loans and non-financial support for young social entrepreneurs to develop their ideas. There's also Resilient Capital, a $15m fund formed by a credit union, Vancity, and the Vancouver Foundation to invest in social enterprises. In fact, Resilient Capital was established with a grant from the Government of British Columbia.What's happening is that government has caught on to the notion of using social finance to build better communities. Last November, the government of Canada launched a national call for concepts to seek \"investment ready\" social finance projects to develop and expand. More than 150 submissions were received, including ideas for using social impact bonds, social investment funds, and social enterprises.Full speed aheadA 2012 report published by the Social Investment Organization estimates Canadian impact investing assets, defined as those aimed at solving social or environmental problems, are at $5.3bn, which is a 20% increase since 2010. The government of Canada vows to continue outreach, connect key players together, sharpen ideas and test social finance tools.Likewise in the UK, the development of social finance initiatives is moving full speed ahead. David Cameron took advantage of the UK presidency of the G8 to set the agenda on social investment while announcing three new major initiatives at home: tax breaks for social investment, the Social Stock Exchange, and a \u00a3250m commitment from the Big Society Capital and Big Lottery Fund to help communities buy local assets such as pubs, shops, and community centres.Social problems have \"frustrated government after government, country after country, generation after generation\", the prime minister said, \"I want to use our G8 Presidency to push this agenda forward. We will work with other G8 nations to grow the social investment market and increase investment, allowing the best social innovations to spread and help tackle our shared social and economic challenges.\"This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the Guardian Social Enterprise Network, click here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Social enterprises", "Society", "Social enterprise"], "title": "Social innovation triggers impact investment in Canada"},{"date": "2013-05-20T16:58:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is a good place to learn about university fundraising because the giving culture is fairly similar to the UK, but its practice tends to be about 20 years ahead. So it was that I recently found myself on the annual CASE fundraising study tour, which takes groups of academic leaders and fundraising professionals from Europe to Canadian universities to learn first hand how they approach this trickiest of businesses.At McMaster University, we learned about the motivations of fundraising's three main actors: development professionals, donors and academic leaders. Lorna Somers, vice president of McMaster University Foundation, told us about the transition from her early days at McMaster in the late 1980s, when academics treated her \"like someone with advanced leprosy\" and alumni would tell her that universities should look to the government for any money they wanted. Now academics are eager \u2013 sometimes too eager \u2013 to be involved. McMaster's annual fundraising target is $21m (\u00a313.4m) and their last campaign raised $470m (\u00a3300m) in four years.Donors have changed too, as we discovered when we met three of McMaster's most generous donors. All were alumni who had lost touch with the university and been attracted back, either to study or because they wanted to get involved in the running of the university. For each, giving was prompted by the realisation that they had the means to help the university do something exciting and extraordinary. This realisation is not the result of a fevered sales pitch but rather the culmination of a long relationship. Most of McMaster's top 20 donors started small, with less than $1000 (\u00a3640) and more than a decade elapsed between their first gift and their major gift.McMaster was not the only place where we heard how important it is to manage, or steward, this relationship. Donors give because they want to make a difference. Once they have given, they need to be told what their gift has achieved. Then they may know that they can achieve more by giving again. Professionals who take the lead in donor stewardship involve academic leaders in generating and sustaining both the excitement that may result in a gift, and the satisfaction that the gift has been put to good use.But not all academic leaders are good at this. We tend to get too hung up on the issue of asking for money. Some of us are terrified of the idea, others become too eager to askand become 'askaholics'.John Kelton, dean of health sciences at McMaster, who has raised over $200m (\u00a3128m) in the last 10 years, told us about his relationships with major donors. Appropriately enough, our meeting took place in the 'floating' boardroom suspended in the atrium of the Michael G De Groote School of Medicine, a building funded by a donation of $105m (\u00a3672m), the largest single donation to a Canadian university.Kelton's account of his work with donors made it clear that listening to donors and understanding what they are interested in, is as important as talking. Although our visits to three other universities confirmed everything we had learned at McMaster, in each of them we learned something distinctive and new. Max Blouw, president of Wilfrid Laurier University, told us how a successful campaign must be rooted in reality.One of the first tasks he had set himself as president was to develop a story about the university based on the facts of the present rather than the myths of the past. As a result, Wilfrid Laurier's new mission statement, 'Inspiring lives of leadership and purpose', contains a strong component of business excellence that adds distinctiveness to its earlier bland image based on its origins as Waterloo Lutheran University.Waterloo University, just next door to Wilfrid Laurier, tells a story of itself as producer of scientific and technological innovations that fuel a local high-technology economy. It encourages its staff, students and alumni to generate wealth, substantial chunks of which get fed back as donations. Waterloo alumnus and inventor of the BlackBerry, Mike Lazaridis, has given hundreds of millions to support research to develop technologies of the future in nanoscience and quantum computing. A Waterloo student donated the million dollars profit he made from selling his first business.Despite these successes, only a small fraction of the alumni who could make substantial donations are disconnected from the university. Jason Coolman, director of alumni affairs, told us about his research on using 'elite' alumni to engage these disconnected former students and gradually get them on board.On our last day at University of Toronto Mississauga (UTM), Gillian Morrison from the university's central campaigns office talked us through the stages of developing UTM's extraordinary $2bn'Boundless' campaign. The biggest in Canadian university history, this campaign is directly linked with academic mission, and shows that smaller universities can have no excuse for lack of coherence in their campaigns.So could the UK emulate what the Canadians have achieved? The more I think about it, the more I think we could. And if we learn from their mistakes rather than repeating them, we could do it faster. An average sized, middle-ranking British university should be able to get to a point where they are raising \u00a35-\u00a310m per year from philanthropy within five to 10 years.Andrew Derrington is executive pro vice-chancellor of humanities and social sciences at the University of Liverpool \u2013 he blogs about university management and grant writingThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["International", "Higher Education Network", "Fundraising", "Alumni", "Academics", "Communications and marketing", "Student engagement", "University funding", "Higher education"], "title": "University fundraising: what the UK can learn from Canada"},{"date": "2013-06-21T07:00:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The idea was to have a place where social innovators could work. In 2004, five social entrepreneurs tested this idea by turning 5,000 of the 100,000 sq ft Robertson Building, an early 1900 Edwardian style structure that was once used as a manufacturing warehouse for the James Robertson Company in Toronto, into a shared workspace.The idea became a success and the demand was enormous. Individuals and organisations were put on a waiting list. By 2009, the Centre for Social Innovation (CSI) occupied more than 20,000 sq ft of the Robertson Building and then there was even more demand.When the opportunity came up to expand with another building in the heart of Toronto, there was only one problem: money. The centre had to find $6.5m (\u00a34m) to cover the purchase and renovations for the 36,000 sq ft building. They first went to the City of Toronto and were able to secure a loan guarantee, which allowed them to shop for a better $4.5m mortgage with Alterna Savings & Credit Union. This meant they still had to raise $2m.Birth of the Community BondWith a lack of money but a willing community the idea of a community bond was born. A community bond is a debt instrument that allowed CSI, the issuer of the bond, to promise its community of lenders, the holders of the bond, the principal amount borrowed plus 4% interest over five years. Because the bond was backed by an asset, bondholders could place them in their registered retirement saving plans. CSI ended up raising $1.4m in the first four months and eventually the full amount to fund what is known today as the CSI Annex.The story of CSI is not uncommon but the growth of social innovation in Canada, as exemplified by CSI's overcrowding problem, has triggered a great demand for channeling investments into initiatives that deliver a mixture of positive social and environmental impact and financial returns, often referred to as \"social investment\" or \"impact investment\". Today, CSI operates three shared workspaces in Toronto and a fourth in Manhattan, New York, that opened last month.Based on the success of the community bond and a desire to mobilise money for socially innovative projects, other organisations have created their own bonds. In December of 2011, the YWCA Toronto issued a $1m community bond to fund 300 affordable housing units for women and children. Purchased by the Muttart Foundation, the bond carries a 10-year term and pays 4% interest annually. Community bonds are also used for financing local solar energy projects and food markets.Government catches onThere has been a spur of successfully operating social finance initiatives across Canada in the last few years. To name just three, the Desjardins Group has established microcredit programmes to provide individuals and entrepreneurs small interest-free loans that have two- to five-year payback periods. Provided that they agree to lessons in budgeting, employability, and starting a business, these loans are available to those who are traditionally excluded from the financial market, such as single parents, Aboriginal people living off reserve, and new Canadians.Another example, the Youth Social Innovation Capital Fund provides micro-loans and non-financial support for young social entrepreneurs to develop their ideas. There's also Resilient Capital, a $15m fund formed by a credit union, Vancity, and the Vancouver Foundation to invest in social enterprises. In fact, Resilient Capital was established with a grant from the Government of British Columbia.What's happening is that government has caught on to the notion of using social finance to build better communities. Last November, the government of Canada launched a national call for concepts to seek \"investment ready\" social finance projects to develop and expand. More than 150 submissions were received, including ideas for using social impact bonds, social investment funds, and social enterprises.Full speed aheadA 2012 report published by the Social Investment Organization estimates Canadian impact investing assets, defined as those aimed at solving social or environmental problems, are at $5.3bn, which is a 20% increase since 2010. The government of Canada vows to continue outreach, connect key players together, sharpen ideas and test social finance tools.Likewise in the UK, the development of social finance initiatives is moving full speed ahead. David Cameron took advantage of the UK presidency of the G8 to set the agenda on social investment while announcing three new major initiatives at home: tax breaks for social investment, the Social Stock Exchange, and a \u00a3250m commitment from the Big Society Capital and Big Lottery Fund to help communities buy local assets such as pubs, shops, and community centres.Social problems have \"frustrated government after government, country after country, generation after generation\", the prime minister said, \"I want to use our G8 Presidency to push this agenda forward. We will work with other G8 nations to grow the social investment market and increase investment, allowing the best social innovations to spread and help tackle our shared social and economic challenges.\"This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the Guardian Social Enterprise Network, click here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Social enterprises", "Society", "Social enterprise"], "title": "Social innovation triggers impact investment in Canada"},{"date": "2013-05-20T16:58:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is a good place to learn about university fundraising because the giving culture is fairly similar to the UK, but its practice tends to be about 20 years ahead. So it was that I recently found myself on the annual CASE fundraising study tour, which takes groups of academic leaders and fundraising professionals from Europe to Canadian universities to learn first hand how they approach this trickiest of businesses.At McMaster University, we learned about the motivations of fundraising's three main actors: development professionals, donors and academic leaders. Lorna Somers, vice president of McMaster University Foundation, told us about the transition from her early days at McMaster in the late 1980s, when academics treated her \"like someone with advanced leprosy\" and alumni would tell her that universities should look to the government for any money they wanted. Now academics are eager \u2013 sometimes too eager \u2013 to be involved. McMaster's annual fundraising target is $21m (\u00a313.4m) and their last campaign raised $470m (\u00a3300m) in four years.Donors have changed too, as we discovered when we met three of McMaster's most generous donors. All were alumni who had lost touch with the university and been attracted back, either to study or because they wanted to get involved in the running of the university. For each, giving was prompted by the realisation that they had the means to help the university do something exciting and extraordinary. This realisation is not the result of a fevered sales pitch but rather the culmination of a long relationship. Most of McMaster's top 20 donors started small, with less than $1000 (\u00a3640) and more than a decade elapsed between their first gift and their major gift.McMaster was not the only place where we heard how important it is to manage, or steward, this relationship. Donors give because they want to make a difference. Once they have given, they need to be told what their gift has achieved. Then they may know that they can achieve more by giving again. Professionals who take the lead in donor stewardship involve academic leaders in generating and sustaining both the excitement that may result in a gift, and the satisfaction that the gift has been put to good use.But not all academic leaders are good at this. We tend to get too hung up on the issue of asking for money. Some of us are terrified of the idea, others become too eager to askand become 'askaholics'.John Kelton, dean of health sciences at McMaster, who has raised over $200m (\u00a3128m) in the last 10 years, told us about his relationships with major donors. Appropriately enough, our meeting took place in the 'floating' boardroom suspended in the atrium of the Michael G De Groote School of Medicine, a building funded by a donation of $105m (\u00a3672m), the largest single donation to a Canadian university.Kelton's account of his work with donors made it clear that listening to donors and understanding what they are interested in, is as important as talking. Although our visits to three other universities confirmed everything we had learned at McMaster, in each of them we learned something distinctive and new. Max Blouw, president of Wilfrid Laurier University, told us how a successful campaign must be rooted in reality.One of the first tasks he had set himself as president was to develop a story about the university based on the facts of the present rather than the myths of the past. As a result, Wilfrid Laurier's new mission statement, 'Inspiring lives of leadership and purpose', contains a strong component of business excellence that adds distinctiveness to its earlier bland image based on its origins as Waterloo Lutheran University.Waterloo University, just next door to Wilfrid Laurier, tells a story of itself as producer of scientific and technological innovations that fuel a local high-technology economy. It encourages its staff, students and alumni to generate wealth, substantial chunks of which get fed back as donations. Waterloo alumnus and inventor of the BlackBerry, Mike Lazaridis, has given hundreds of millions to support research to develop technologies of the future in nanoscience and quantum computing. A Waterloo student donated the million dollars profit he made from selling his first business.Despite these successes, only a small fraction of the alumni who could make substantial donations are disconnected from the university. Jason Coolman, director of alumni affairs, told us about his research on using 'elite' alumni to engage these disconnected former students and gradually get them on board.On our last day at University of Toronto Mississauga (UTM), Gillian Morrison from the university's central campaigns office talked us through the stages of developing UTM's extraordinary $2bn'Boundless' campaign. The biggest in Canadian university history, this campaign is directly linked with academic mission, and shows that smaller universities can have no excuse for lack of coherence in their campaigns.So could the UK emulate what the Canadians have achieved? The more I think about it, the more I think we could. And if we learn from their mistakes rather than repeating them, we could do it faster. An average sized, middle-ranking British university should be able to get to a point where they are raising \u00a35-\u00a310m per year from philanthropy within five to 10 years.Andrew Derrington is executive pro vice-chancellor of humanities and social sciences at the University of Liverpool \u2013 he blogs about university management and grant writingThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["International", "Higher Education Network", "Fundraising", "Alumni", "Academics", "Communications and marketing", "Student engagement", "University funding", "Higher education"], "title": "University fundraising: what the UK can learn from Canada"},{"date": "2013-05-08T19:43:50Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government's promotion of the tar sands industry is setting the world on a course of catastrophic climate change, a group of climate scientists and economists have warned.In a letter made available to the Guardian, the academics urged Canada's natural resources minister, Joe Oliver, to consider the consequences of his support for expanding Alberta's tar sands production.Oliver has in recent months emerged as the main proponent for the Keystone XL pipeline in Washington and other capitals. He is due in London this week.The project would pump crude from the tar sands directly to refineries on the Texas Gulf coast, and so provide a much-needed outlet for Canada's crude.But the academics warned that unlocking Alberta's tar sands, which are thought to hold some 170bn barrels of recoverable oil, would put a dangerous amount of carbon into the atmosphere.Production from the tar sands causes higher greenhouse gas emissions than conventional crude oils.The academics said that expanding the tar sands ran in the face of recommendations from the International Energy Agency and others that two-thirds of the world's fossil fuel reserves should not be commercialised \u2013 in order to avoid catastrophic climate change.\"The implication is clear: the responsibility for preventing dangerous climate change rests with today's policymakers,\" the letter said.\"We are not convinced that your advocacy in support of new pipelines and expanded fossil fuel production takes climate change into account in a meaningful way,\" the academics went on.Oliver, along with other Canadian officials, has made repeated visits to Washington and other US cities in recent months in an effort to ensure the Obama administration signs off the Keystone XL pipeline project, which would provide an important outlet for crude from Alberta's tar sands.The minister has also made a reputation for his combative approach to opponents of tar sands development.He has publicly scolded the Nasa scientist, James Hansen, for his opposition to the Keystone XL pipeline, and dismissed Canadian critics of the tar sands as \"radicals\".At the same time, however, Oliver has publicly claimed to be concerned about climate change. He told an audience in Washington last month that developing the tar sands and the Keystone XL pipeline would increase greenhouse gas emissions by only a negligible amount.But the academics in their letter said the policies promoted by Oliver, and Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper, did not appear aimed at limiting greenhouse gas emissions, and so avoiding the worst effects of climate change. \"It is this very dangerous pathway \u2013 not the '450 scenario [parts per million of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere]' linked to avoiding 2C of global warming \u2013 that you seem to be advocating when promoting Canadian fossil fuel development at home and abroad,\" the scientists said.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Canada", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Keystone XL pipeline", "Oil", "Environment", "World news", "US news"], "title": "Academics warn Canada against further tar sands production"},{"date": "2013-06-21T07:00:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The idea was to have a place where social innovators could work. In 2004, five social entrepreneurs tested this idea by turning 5,000 of the 100,000 sq ft Robertson Building, an early 1900 Edwardian style structure that was once used as a manufacturing warehouse for the James Robertson Company in Toronto, into a shared workspace.The idea became a success and the demand was enormous. Individuals and organisations were put on a waiting list. By 2009, the Centre for Social Innovation (CSI) occupied more than 20,000 sq ft of the Robertson Building and then there was even more demand.When the opportunity came up to expand with another building in the heart of Toronto, there was only one problem: money. The centre had to find $6.5m (\u00a34m) to cover the purchase and renovations for the 36,000 sq ft building. They first went to the City of Toronto and were able to secure a loan guarantee, which allowed them to shop for a better $4.5m mortgage with Alterna Savings & Credit Union. This meant they still had to raise $2m.Birth of the Community BondWith a lack of money but a willing community the idea of a community bond was born. A community bond is a debt instrument that allowed CSI, the issuer of the bond, to promise its community of lenders, the holders of the bond, the principal amount borrowed plus 4% interest over five years. Because the bond was backed by an asset, bondholders could place them in their registered retirement saving plans. CSI ended up raising $1.4m in the first four months and eventually the full amount to fund what is known today as the CSI Annex.The story of CSI is not uncommon but the growth of social innovation in Canada, as exemplified by CSI's overcrowding problem, has triggered a great demand for channeling investments into initiatives that deliver a mixture of positive social and environmental impact and financial returns, often referred to as \"social investment\" or \"impact investment\". Today, CSI operates three shared workspaces in Toronto and a fourth in Manhattan, New York, that opened last month.Based on the success of the community bond and a desire to mobilise money for socially innovative projects, other organisations have created their own bonds. In December of 2011, the YWCA Toronto issued a $1m community bond to fund 300 affordable housing units for women and children. Purchased by the Muttart Foundation, the bond carries a 10-year term and pays 4% interest annually. Community bonds are also used for financing local solar energy projects and food markets.Government catches onThere has been a spur of successfully operating social finance initiatives across Canada in the last few years. To name just three, the Desjardins Group has established microcredit programmes to provide individuals and entrepreneurs small interest-free loans that have two- to five-year payback periods. Provided that they agree to lessons in budgeting, employability, and starting a business, these loans are available to those who are traditionally excluded from the financial market, such as single parents, Aboriginal people living off reserve, and new Canadians.Another example, the Youth Social Innovation Capital Fund provides micro-loans and non-financial support for young social entrepreneurs to develop their ideas. There's also Resilient Capital, a $15m fund formed by a credit union, Vancity, and the Vancouver Foundation to invest in social enterprises. In fact, Resilient Capital was established with a grant from the Government of British Columbia.What's happening is that government has caught on to the notion of using social finance to build better communities. Last November, the government of Canada launched a national call for concepts to seek \"investment ready\" social finance projects to develop and expand. More than 150 submissions were received, including ideas for using social impact bonds, social investment funds, and social enterprises.Full speed aheadA 2012 report published by the Social Investment Organization estimates Canadian impact investing assets, defined as those aimed at solving social or environmental problems, are at $5.3bn, which is a 20% increase since 2010. The government of Canada vows to continue outreach, connect key players together, sharpen ideas and test social finance tools.Likewise in the UK, the development of social finance initiatives is moving full speed ahead. David Cameron took advantage of the UK presidency of the G8 to set the agenda on social investment while announcing three new major initiatives at home: tax breaks for social investment, the Social Stock Exchange, and a \u00a3250m commitment from the Big Society Capital and Big Lottery Fund to help communities buy local assets such as pubs, shops, and community centres.Social problems have \"frustrated government after government, country after country, generation after generation\", the prime minister said, \"I want to use our G8 Presidency to push this agenda forward. We will work with other G8 nations to grow the social investment market and increase investment, allowing the best social innovations to spread and help tackle our shared social and economic challenges.\"This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the Guardian Social Enterprise Network, click here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Social enterprises", "Society", "Social enterprise"], "title": "Social innovation triggers impact investment in Canada"},{"date": "2013-05-20T16:58:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is a good place to learn about university fundraising because the giving culture is fairly similar to the UK, but its practice tends to be about 20 years ahead. So it was that I recently found myself on the annual CASE fundraising study tour, which takes groups of academic leaders and fundraising professionals from Europe to Canadian universities to learn first hand how they approach this trickiest of businesses.At McMaster University, we learned about the motivations of fundraising's three main actors: development professionals, donors and academic leaders. Lorna Somers, vice president of McMaster University Foundation, told us about the transition from her early days at McMaster in the late 1980s, when academics treated her \"like someone with advanced leprosy\" and alumni would tell her that universities should look to the government for any money they wanted. Now academics are eager \u2013 sometimes too eager \u2013 to be involved. McMaster's annual fundraising target is $21m (\u00a313.4m) and their last campaign raised $470m (\u00a3300m) in four years.Donors have changed too, as we discovered when we met three of McMaster's most generous donors. All were alumni who had lost touch with the university and been attracted back, either to study or because they wanted to get involved in the running of the university. For each, giving was prompted by the realisation that they had the means to help the university do something exciting and extraordinary. This realisation is not the result of a fevered sales pitch but rather the culmination of a long relationship. Most of McMaster's top 20 donors started small, with less than $1000 (\u00a3640) and more than a decade elapsed between their first gift and their major gift.McMaster was not the only place where we heard how important it is to manage, or steward, this relationship. Donors give because they want to make a difference. Once they have given, they need to be told what their gift has achieved. Then they may know that they can achieve more by giving again. Professionals who take the lead in donor stewardship involve academic leaders in generating and sustaining both the excitement that may result in a gift, and the satisfaction that the gift has been put to good use.But not all academic leaders are good at this. We tend to get too hung up on the issue of asking for money. Some of us are terrified of the idea, others become too eager to askand become 'askaholics'.John Kelton, dean of health sciences at McMaster, who has raised over $200m (\u00a3128m) in the last 10 years, told us about his relationships with major donors. Appropriately enough, our meeting took place in the 'floating' boardroom suspended in the atrium of the Michael G De Groote School of Medicine, a building funded by a donation of $105m (\u00a3672m), the largest single donation to a Canadian university.Kelton's account of his work with donors made it clear that listening to donors and understanding what they are interested in, is as important as talking. Although our visits to three other universities confirmed everything we had learned at McMaster, in each of them we learned something distinctive and new. Max Blouw, president of Wilfrid Laurier University, told us how a successful campaign must be rooted in reality.One of the first tasks he had set himself as president was to develop a story about the university based on the facts of the present rather than the myths of the past. As a result, Wilfrid Laurier's new mission statement, 'Inspiring lives of leadership and purpose', contains a strong component of business excellence that adds distinctiveness to its earlier bland image based on its origins as Waterloo Lutheran University.Waterloo University, just next door to Wilfrid Laurier, tells a story of itself as producer of scientific and technological innovations that fuel a local high-technology economy. It encourages its staff, students and alumni to generate wealth, substantial chunks of which get fed back as donations. Waterloo alumnus and inventor of the BlackBerry, Mike Lazaridis, has given hundreds of millions to support research to develop technologies of the future in nanoscience and quantum computing. A Waterloo student donated the million dollars profit he made from selling his first business.Despite these successes, only a small fraction of the alumni who could make substantial donations are disconnected from the university. Jason Coolman, director of alumni affairs, told us about his research on using 'elite' alumni to engage these disconnected former students and gradually get them on board.On our last day at University of Toronto Mississauga (UTM), Gillian Morrison from the university's central campaigns office talked us through the stages of developing UTM's extraordinary $2bn'Boundless' campaign. The biggest in Canadian university history, this campaign is directly linked with academic mission, and shows that smaller universities can have no excuse for lack of coherence in their campaigns.So could the UK emulate what the Canadians have achieved? The more I think about it, the more I think we could. And if we learn from their mistakes rather than repeating them, we could do it faster. An average sized, middle-ranking British university should be able to get to a point where they are raising \u00a35-\u00a310m per year from philanthropy within five to 10 years.Andrew Derrington is executive pro vice-chancellor of humanities and social sciences at the University of Liverpool \u2013 he blogs about university management and grant writingThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["International", "Higher Education Network", "Fundraising", "Alumni", "Academics", "Communications and marketing", "Student engagement", "University funding", "Higher education"], "title": "University fundraising: what the UK can learn from Canada"},{"date": "2013-05-08T19:43:50Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government's promotion of the tar sands industry is setting the world on a course of catastrophic climate change, a group of climate scientists and economists have warned.In a letter made available to the Guardian, the academics urged Canada's natural resources minister, Joe Oliver, to consider the consequences of his support for expanding Alberta's tar sands production.Oliver has in recent months emerged as the main proponent for the Keystone XL pipeline in Washington and other capitals. He is due in London this week.The project would pump crude from the tar sands directly to refineries on the Texas Gulf coast, and so provide a much-needed outlet for Canada's crude.But the academics warned that unlocking Alberta's tar sands, which are thought to hold some 170bn barrels of recoverable oil, would put a dangerous amount of carbon into the atmosphere.Production from the tar sands causes higher greenhouse gas emissions than conventional crude oils.The academics said that expanding the tar sands ran in the face of recommendations from the International Energy Agency and others that two-thirds of the world's fossil fuel reserves should not be commercialised \u2013 in order to avoid catastrophic climate change.\"The implication is clear: the responsibility for preventing dangerous climate change rests with today's policymakers,\" the letter said.\"We are not convinced that your advocacy in support of new pipelines and expanded fossil fuel production takes climate change into account in a meaningful way,\" the academics went on.Oliver, along with other Canadian officials, has made repeated visits to Washington and other US cities in recent months in an effort to ensure the Obama administration signs off the Keystone XL pipeline project, which would provide an important outlet for crude from Alberta's tar sands.The minister has also made a reputation for his combative approach to opponents of tar sands development.He has publicly scolded the Nasa scientist, James Hansen, for his opposition to the Keystone XL pipeline, and dismissed Canadian critics of the tar sands as \"radicals\".At the same time, however, Oliver has publicly claimed to be concerned about climate change. He told an audience in Washington last month that developing the tar sands and the Keystone XL pipeline would increase greenhouse gas emissions by only a negligible amount.But the academics in their letter said the policies promoted by Oliver, and Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper, did not appear aimed at limiting greenhouse gas emissions, and so avoiding the worst effects of climate change. \"It is this very dangerous pathway \u2013 not the '450 scenario [parts per million of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere]' linked to avoiding 2C of global warming \u2013 that you seem to be advocating when promoting Canadian fossil fuel development at home and abroad,\" the scientists said.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Canada", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Keystone XL pipeline", "Oil", "Environment", "World news", "US news"], "title": "Academics warn Canada against further tar sands production"},{"date": "2013-04-30T10:44:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Reading on mobile? Click here to view videoBoards of Canada have announced Tomorrow's Harvest, their first album in eight years. Following a brief, cryptic marketing campaign, the Scottish duo revealed that the LP will be released on 10 June.Just over a week ago fans got their first hint that Daft Punk are not the only secretive electronic act to be making a comeback in 2013. At Other Music, a record shop in New York, a shopper uncovered a mysterious 12-inch record containing 12 seconds of ambient music. The sleeve was marked Boards of Canada and bore the the numeric code 936557. Another copy was later discovered at London's Rough Trade East. Over the coming days, five more codes were released to BBC Radio 1, NPR, and Adult Swim, and via YouTube videos and the fan site Twoism. When Boards of Canada launched a new website yesterday, Cosecha Transmisiones, the numbers were found to be a password unlocking a video and a link to purchase the album.Given the gap between Tomorrow's Harvest and Boards of Canada's last LP, 2005's The Campfire Headphase, this has been a remarkably short promo campaign. Its brevity has been offset, however, by the music's languorous, abstract videos. Boards of Canada's sound has always evoked field recordings and the vintage educational productions of Canada's National Film Board, from which the duo take their name, and the new videos have a similar, nostalgic feeling.Tomorrow's Harvest contains 17 songs and includes the tracks Palace Posy, Jacquard Causeway and Semena Mertvykh. It is available for pre-order on CD and double-gatefold vinyl.But, for those who prefer limited-edition artefacts, the lucky buyer of that Other Music 12-inch has apparently put the record back up for sale for $5,000 (\u00a33,226). \"Near mint,\" the listing says, \"One corner got a little bent.\"", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music", "Boards of Canada"], "title": "Boards of Canada announce first new album in eight years"},{"date": "2013-06-21T07:00:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The idea was to have a place where social innovators could work. In 2004, five social entrepreneurs tested this idea by turning 5,000 of the 100,000 sq ft Robertson Building, an early 1900 Edwardian style structure that was once used as a manufacturing warehouse for the James Robertson Company in Toronto, into a shared workspace.The idea became a success and the demand was enormous. Individuals and organisations were put on a waiting list. By 2009, the Centre for Social Innovation (CSI) occupied more than 20,000 sq ft of the Robertson Building and then there was even more demand.When the opportunity came up to expand with another building in the heart of Toronto, there was only one problem: money. The centre had to find $6.5m (\u00a34m) to cover the purchase and renovations for the 36,000 sq ft building. They first went to the City of Toronto and were able to secure a loan guarantee, which allowed them to shop for a better $4.5m mortgage with Alterna Savings & Credit Union. This meant they still had to raise $2m.Birth of the Community BondWith a lack of money but a willing community the idea of a community bond was born. A community bond is a debt instrument that allowed CSI, the issuer of the bond, to promise its community of lenders, the holders of the bond, the principal amount borrowed plus 4% interest over five years. Because the bond was backed by an asset, bondholders could place them in their registered retirement saving plans. CSI ended up raising $1.4m in the first four months and eventually the full amount to fund what is known today as the CSI Annex.The story of CSI is not uncommon but the growth of social innovation in Canada, as exemplified by CSI's overcrowding problem, has triggered a great demand for channeling investments into initiatives that deliver a mixture of positive social and environmental impact and financial returns, often referred to as \"social investment\" or \"impact investment\". Today, CSI operates three shared workspaces in Toronto and a fourth in Manhattan, New York, that opened last month.Based on the success of the community bond and a desire to mobilise money for socially innovative projects, other organisations have created their own bonds. In December of 2011, the YWCA Toronto issued a $1m community bond to fund 300 affordable housing units for women and children. Purchased by the Muttart Foundation, the bond carries a 10-year term and pays 4% interest annually. Community bonds are also used for financing local solar energy projects and food markets.Government catches onThere has been a spur of successfully operating social finance initiatives across Canada in the last few years. To name just three, the Desjardins Group has established microcredit programmes to provide individuals and entrepreneurs small interest-free loans that have two- to five-year payback periods. Provided that they agree to lessons in budgeting, employability, and starting a business, these loans are available to those who are traditionally excluded from the financial market, such as single parents, Aboriginal people living off reserve, and new Canadians.Another example, the Youth Social Innovation Capital Fund provides micro-loans and non-financial support for young social entrepreneurs to develop their ideas. There's also Resilient Capital, a $15m fund formed by a credit union, Vancity, and the Vancouver Foundation to invest in social enterprises. In fact, Resilient Capital was established with a grant from the Government of British Columbia.What's happening is that government has caught on to the notion of using social finance to build better communities. Last November, the government of Canada launched a national call for concepts to seek \"investment ready\" social finance projects to develop and expand. More than 150 submissions were received, including ideas for using social impact bonds, social investment funds, and social enterprises.Full speed aheadA 2012 report published by the Social Investment Organization estimates Canadian impact investing assets, defined as those aimed at solving social or environmental problems, are at $5.3bn, which is a 20% increase since 2010. The government of Canada vows to continue outreach, connect key players together, sharpen ideas and test social finance tools.Likewise in the UK, the development of social finance initiatives is moving full speed ahead. David Cameron took advantage of the UK presidency of the G8 to set the agenda on social investment while announcing three new major initiatives at home: tax breaks for social investment, the Social Stock Exchange, and a \u00a3250m commitment from the Big Society Capital and Big Lottery Fund to help communities buy local assets such as pubs, shops, and community centres.Social problems have \"frustrated government after government, country after country, generation after generation\", the prime minister said, \"I want to use our G8 Presidency to push this agenda forward. We will work with other G8 nations to grow the social investment market and increase investment, allowing the best social innovations to spread and help tackle our shared social and economic challenges.\"This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To join the Guardian Social Enterprise Network, click here.", "tags": ["Guardian sustainable business", "Social enterprises", "Society", "Social enterprise"], "title": "Social innovation triggers impact investment in Canada"},{"date": "2013-05-20T16:58:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada is a good place to learn about university fundraising because the giving culture is fairly similar to the UK, but its practice tends to be about 20 years ahead. So it was that I recently found myself on the annual CASE fundraising study tour, which takes groups of academic leaders and fundraising professionals from Europe to Canadian universities to learn first hand how they approach this trickiest of businesses.At McMaster University, we learned about the motivations of fundraising's three main actors: development professionals, donors and academic leaders. Lorna Somers, vice president of McMaster University Foundation, told us about the transition from her early days at McMaster in the late 1980s, when academics treated her \"like someone with advanced leprosy\" and alumni would tell her that universities should look to the government for any money they wanted. Now academics are eager \u2013 sometimes too eager \u2013 to be involved. McMaster's annual fundraising target is $21m (\u00a313.4m) and their last campaign raised $470m (\u00a3300m) in four years.Donors have changed too, as we discovered when we met three of McMaster's most generous donors. All were alumni who had lost touch with the university and been attracted back, either to study or because they wanted to get involved in the running of the university. For each, giving was prompted by the realisation that they had the means to help the university do something exciting and extraordinary. This realisation is not the result of a fevered sales pitch but rather the culmination of a long relationship. Most of McMaster's top 20 donors started small, with less than $1000 (\u00a3640) and more than a decade elapsed between their first gift and their major gift.McMaster was not the only place where we heard how important it is to manage, or steward, this relationship. Donors give because they want to make a difference. Once they have given, they need to be told what their gift has achieved. Then they may know that they can achieve more by giving again. Professionals who take the lead in donor stewardship involve academic leaders in generating and sustaining both the excitement that may result in a gift, and the satisfaction that the gift has been put to good use.But not all academic leaders are good at this. We tend to get too hung up on the issue of asking for money. Some of us are terrified of the idea, others become too eager to askand become 'askaholics'.John Kelton, dean of health sciences at McMaster, who has raised over $200m (\u00a3128m) in the last 10 years, told us about his relationships with major donors. Appropriately enough, our meeting took place in the 'floating' boardroom suspended in the atrium of the Michael G De Groote School of Medicine, a building funded by a donation of $105m (\u00a3672m), the largest single donation to a Canadian university.Kelton's account of his work with donors made it clear that listening to donors and understanding what they are interested in, is as important as talking. Although our visits to three other universities confirmed everything we had learned at McMaster, in each of them we learned something distinctive and new. Max Blouw, president of Wilfrid Laurier University, told us how a successful campaign must be rooted in reality.One of the first tasks he had set himself as president was to develop a story about the university based on the facts of the present rather than the myths of the past. As a result, Wilfrid Laurier's new mission statement, 'Inspiring lives of leadership and purpose', contains a strong component of business excellence that adds distinctiveness to its earlier bland image based on its origins as Waterloo Lutheran University.Waterloo University, just next door to Wilfrid Laurier, tells a story of itself as producer of scientific and technological innovations that fuel a local high-technology economy. It encourages its staff, students and alumni to generate wealth, substantial chunks of which get fed back as donations. Waterloo alumnus and inventor of the BlackBerry, Mike Lazaridis, has given hundreds of millions to support research to develop technologies of the future in nanoscience and quantum computing. A Waterloo student donated the million dollars profit he made from selling his first business.Despite these successes, only a small fraction of the alumni who could make substantial donations are disconnected from the university. Jason Coolman, director of alumni affairs, told us about his research on using 'elite' alumni to engage these disconnected former students and gradually get them on board.On our last day at University of Toronto Mississauga (UTM), Gillian Morrison from the university's central campaigns office talked us through the stages of developing UTM's extraordinary $2bn'Boundless' campaign. The biggest in Canadian university history, this campaign is directly linked with academic mission, and shows that smaller universities can have no excuse for lack of coherence in their campaigns.So could the UK emulate what the Canadians have achieved? The more I think about it, the more I think we could. And if we learn from their mistakes rather than repeating them, we could do it faster. An average sized, middle-ranking British university should be able to get to a point where they are raising \u00a35-\u00a310m per year from philanthropy within five to 10 years.Andrew Derrington is executive pro vice-chancellor of humanities and social sciences at the University of Liverpool \u2013 he blogs about university management and grant writingThis content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["International", "Higher Education Network", "Fundraising", "Alumni", "Academics", "Communications and marketing", "Student engagement", "University funding", "Higher education"], "title": "University fundraising: what the UK can learn from Canada"},{"date": "2013-05-08T19:43:50Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government's promotion of the tar sands industry is setting the world on a course of catastrophic climate change, a group of climate scientists and economists have warned.In a letter made available to the Guardian, the academics urged Canada's natural resources minister, Joe Oliver, to consider the consequences of his support for expanding Alberta's tar sands production.Oliver has in recent months emerged as the main proponent for the Keystone XL pipeline in Washington and other capitals. He is due in London this week.The project would pump crude from the tar sands directly to refineries on the Texas Gulf coast, and so provide a much-needed outlet for Canada's crude.But the academics warned that unlocking Alberta's tar sands, which are thought to hold some 170bn barrels of recoverable oil, would put a dangerous amount of carbon into the atmosphere.Production from the tar sands causes higher greenhouse gas emissions than conventional crude oils.The academics said that expanding the tar sands ran in the face of recommendations from the International Energy Agency and others that two-thirds of the world's fossil fuel reserves should not be commercialised \u2013 in order to avoid catastrophic climate change.\"The implication is clear: the responsibility for preventing dangerous climate change rests with today's policymakers,\" the letter said.\"We are not convinced that your advocacy in support of new pipelines and expanded fossil fuel production takes climate change into account in a meaningful way,\" the academics went on.Oliver, along with other Canadian officials, has made repeated visits to Washington and other US cities in recent months in an effort to ensure the Obama administration signs off the Keystone XL pipeline project, which would provide an important outlet for crude from Alberta's tar sands.The minister has also made a reputation for his combative approach to opponents of tar sands development.He has publicly scolded the Nasa scientist, James Hansen, for his opposition to the Keystone XL pipeline, and dismissed Canadian critics of the tar sands as \"radicals\".At the same time, however, Oliver has publicly claimed to be concerned about climate change. He told an audience in Washington last month that developing the tar sands and the Keystone XL pipeline would increase greenhouse gas emissions by only a negligible amount.But the academics in their letter said the policies promoted by Oliver, and Canada's prime minister, Stephen Harper, did not appear aimed at limiting greenhouse gas emissions, and so avoiding the worst effects of climate change. \"It is this very dangerous pathway \u2013 not the '450 scenario [parts per million of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere]' linked to avoiding 2C of global warming \u2013 that you seem to be advocating when promoting Canadian fossil fuel development at home and abroad,\" the scientists said.", "tags": ["Tar sands", "Canada", "Greenhouse gas emissions", "Climate change", "Keystone XL pipeline", "Oil", "Environment", "World news", "US news"], "title": "Academics warn Canada against further tar sands production"},{"date": "2013-04-30T10:44:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Reading on mobile? Click here to view videoBoards of Canada have announced Tomorrow's Harvest, their first album in eight years. Following a brief, cryptic marketing campaign, the Scottish duo revealed that the LP will be released on 10 June.Just over a week ago fans got their first hint that Daft Punk are not the only secretive electronic act to be making a comeback in 2013. At Other Music, a record shop in New York, a shopper uncovered a mysterious 12-inch record containing 12 seconds of ambient music. The sleeve was marked Boards of Canada and bore the the numeric code 936557. Another copy was later discovered at London's Rough Trade East. Over the coming days, five more codes were released to BBC Radio 1, NPR, and Adult Swim, and via YouTube videos and the fan site Twoism. When Boards of Canada launched a new website yesterday, Cosecha Transmisiones, the numbers were found to be a password unlocking a video and a link to purchase the album.Given the gap between Tomorrow's Harvest and Boards of Canada's last LP, 2005's The Campfire Headphase, this has been a remarkably short promo campaign. Its brevity has been offset, however, by the music's languorous, abstract videos. Boards of Canada's sound has always evoked field recordings and the vintage educational productions of Canada's National Film Board, from which the duo take their name, and the new videos have a similar, nostalgic feeling.Tomorrow's Harvest contains 17 songs and includes the tracks Palace Posy, Jacquard Causeway and Semena Mertvykh. It is available for pre-order on CD and double-gatefold vinyl.But, for those who prefer limited-edition artefacts, the lucky buyer of that Other Music 12-inch has apparently put the record back up for sale for $5,000 (\u00a33,226). \"Near mint,\" the listing says, \"One corner got a little bent.\"", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Electronic music", "Boards of Canada"], "title": "Boards of Canada announce first new album in eight years"},{"date": "2013-04-26T20:49:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government has launched a blistering attack on Sri Lanka's \"appalling\" record on democratic accountability as the controversy intensifies over the Commonwealth's decision to allow Colombo to host its biennial heads of government meeting later this year.The Commonwealth's general secretary said on Friday that he saw no reason to strip Sri Lanka of the honour of staging the meeting in November despite mounting international concern over the country's failure to tackle human rights abuses and demonstrate a clear commitment to democracy and the rule of law.John Baird, Canada's foreign minister, said he was stunned that Colombo was not facing censure for its behaviour.\"We're appalled that Sri Lanka seems poised to host CHOGM and to be chair-in-residence of the Commonwealth for two years,\" he told the Guardian.\"Canada didn't get involved in the Commonwealth to accommodate evil; we came to combat it. We are deeply disappointed that Sri Lanka appears poised to take on this leadership role.\"Far from seeing \"meaningful progress\" since the last CHOGM in Perth in 2011, said Baird, the Sri Lankan government had only grown more authoritarian and less accountable and open to reconciliation.He added: \"It's not just Canada: the Commonwealth Journalists' Association; the Commonwealth Human Rights Initiative; the Commonwealth Lawyers' Association; the Commonwealth Legal Education Association; the Commonwealth Magistrates' and Judges' Association; Human Rights Watch, the United Nations Human Rights Council \u2013 all of these people have come out and unanimously have said that not only has Sri Lanka not made progress, but in many instances, is getting worse.\"Baird pointed to the impeachment and sacking three months ago of the country's chief justice and her replacement with a successor who is close to President Mahinda Rajapaksa.\"Both of those actions are appalling and they show that not only have we not seen an improvement, we've seen a deterioration in recent months and that is causing Canada great concern,\" he said.The Canadian prime minister, Stephen Harper, has repeatedly raised concerns over Sri Lanka's hosting of CHOGM and threatened to boycott the meeting if Colombo does not show real evidence of progress.Asked whether Harper was planning to snub CHOGM, Baird said: \"Certainly nothing I've learnt in recent months and days would lead me to give him any contrary advice on that issue.\"Baird was speaking after a meeting in London of the Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group, which describes itself as \"the custodian of Commonwealth values and principles\".Although Sri Lanka was not on the agenda, the country was discussed and Baird is understood to have restated his government's firm opposition to the decision to let Colombo host CHOGM.At a press conference after the meeting, the secretary general of the Commonwealth, Kamalesh Sharma, appeared to contradict the Canadian position when he told reporters that \"no member government had indicated remotely that it wished to change the venue\".He also defended the CHOGM decision, saying that he had found Sri Lanka to be \"engaged and willing\" to improve itself through measures such as institution-building.Sharma denied suggestions that the Commonwealth risked compromising its credibility by refusing to take Colombo to task over accusations of war crimes, torture and institutional corruption \u2013 or for its failure to bring to justice the alleged killers of Khuram Shaikh, a British man who was murdered on the island in 2011.\"I think the credibility of the Commonwealth is increasing right now because as far as the judicial sector is concerned, we are the ones who are working with them on what can be a solution to the pluralities and institutional confrontations that they've had in the past,\" he said. \"I think the way in which we are acting and the way in which we are planning to make real progress on the ground is actually a sign of this institution's relevance in the difficulties which are faced by member states rather than the other way around.\"A spokeswoman for the Foreign and Commonwealth Office said the British government had not yet decided whether it would attend CHOGM in Colombo, adding: \"Ahead of the meeting, we will look to Sri Lanka, as any other CHOGM host, to demonstrate its commitment to upholding the Commonwealth values of good governance and respect for human rights.\"", "tags": ["Sri Lanka", "Canada", "Commonwealth summit", "World news", "Americas", "United Nations", "Human rights", "Stephen Harper"], "title": "Canada attacks 'evil' of Sri Lanka hosting Commonwealth summit"},{"date": "2013-08-07T11:28:49Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Harris Learning Library is somewhat unique in that it serves the needs of a university and a college. Technology continues to bring rapid change to libraries in general and this library in particular: thousands of digitised resources are conveniently and instantly accessible to users regardless of their physical location, traditional library approaches are questioned, services evolve, and budget priorities shift. The need for information may not have changed significantly for users, but technology influences user preferences for how, when, what, where, and why they access information and library services.Reaction to every actionAccessibility to academic sources has improved but there are some challenges which I prefer to view as opportunities. Many of us have observed the double-edged sword effect: for every action there is a reaction. The library profession grapples with this in discussions that strive to balance the traditional with the new territory confronting us. These discussions are not specific to this library and we share many experiences in common with our colleagues. We too have noted declining circulation statistics and changes in face-to-face interactions at the reference desk, which we believe are related to technological advances and the increased accessibility of resources.Yet, as usage in one area falls, usage in other areas remains stable or has increased. Our library is filled to capacity and hums with activity \u2013 giving lie to the assumption that the physical entity of a library is no long necessary; libraries in their physical form provide a much appreciated haven and various amenities: access to equipment, study rooms, learning spaces, and in some instances cafes that offer another kind of sustenance for creativity.Demand for traditional approachesAlthough users are embracing digitised resources, they can be overwhelmed by the options, amount of content, and the multitude of resources. Navigating libraries' electronic resources for information is not necessarily as intuitive or attractive as using Google. Some users find ebook platforms off\u2013putting and avoid them. Electronic articles are favoured, but many users dislike reading articles online and prefer to print articles to highlight and add their reactions to the content. Such preferences suggest that reading academic content online is not as easy or relaxing as reading recreational content online. Contemplating how much of the traditional could or might be left behind is more daunting to some than to others.Moving academic libraries forward into new territory should be multi-faceted. We know that librarians and library staff are essential to seeking information and experiences', instrumental to academic success; provide instructional support, and actively collaborate with faculty. However, we must communicate a message that clearly defines that essential role.Connecting with our users \u2013 in the virtual and physical sense \u2013 requires us to assess traditional approaches and find new ways to provide the service, while improving accessibility to research. Creating alternatives and enhancing access must meet the needs of the wide diversity of our users: international users, and those with physical and/or cognitive challenges. Many such adjustments are already well established, but recognising and anticipating opportunities for improvement continues to be a priority.Future depends on library staffAnecdotally we have observed the impact of the double-edged sword of change and identified areas of need; however, basing decisions on the anecdotal highlights the need to support librarians in their own research. Through more research, we can clearly articulate the user experience and effect change with confidence and knowledge. Building our research base will also strengthen our credibility with our academic colleagues. As we introduce change, certain principles must remain constant such as intellectual freedom, confidentiality of patron records, fair dealing, open access, resource sharing through consortia partnerships, and the contribution to society. These are traditional perspectives, but they are not antiquated ideas to be left behind.Library administrators are facilitators in shaping the future of the academic library, bringing the needs of library users together with the concerns of librarians, library staff and colleagues. The future of the academic library lies with many, but ultimately depends on our ability to harmonise the seemingly contradictory and competing principles of technology, budgets, library space, services, copyright, and open access. We cannot lose sight (or heart) of the many benefits academic libraries provide.It will seem clich\u00e9d to say this, but we are not seeing the demise of the academic library any time soon. These are exciting times and the library is vibrant and ever-evolving.Nancy Black is the executive director of library services at Nipissing University, Ontario, Canada. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Management and administration", "Technology", "Infrastructure", "Research", "Open access", "Academics", "Student experience", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Library futures: Nipissing University, Canada"},{"date": "2013-08-07T11:28:49Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Harris Learning Library is somewhat unique in that it serves the needs of a university and a college. Technology continues to bring rapid change to libraries in general and this library in particular: thousands of digitised resources are conveniently and instantly accessible to users regardless of their physical location, traditional library approaches are questioned, services evolve, and budget priorities shift. The need for information may not have changed significantly for users, but technology influences user preferences for how, when, what, where, and why they access information and library services.Reaction to every actionAccessibility to academic sources has improved but there are some challenges which I prefer to view as opportunities. Many of us have observed the double-edged sword effect: for every action there is a reaction. The library profession grapples with this in discussions that strive to balance the traditional with the new territory confronting us. These discussions are not specific to this library and we share many experiences in common with our colleagues. We too have noted declining circulation statistics and changes in face-to-face interactions at the reference desk, which we believe are related to technological advances and the increased accessibility of resources.Yet, as usage in one area falls, usage in other areas remains stable or has increased. Our library is filled to capacity and hums with activity \u2013 giving lie to the assumption that the physical entity of a library is no long necessary; libraries in their physical form provide a much appreciated haven and various amenities: access to equipment, study rooms, learning spaces, and in some instances cafes that offer another kind of sustenance for creativity.Demand for traditional approachesAlthough users are embracing digitised resources, they can be overwhelmed by the options, amount of content, and the multitude of resources. Navigating libraries' electronic resources for information is not necessarily as intuitive or attractive as using Google. Some users find ebook platforms off\u2013putting and avoid them. Electronic articles are favoured, but many users dislike reading articles online and prefer to print articles to highlight and add their reactions to the content. Such preferences suggest that reading academic content online is not as easy or relaxing as reading recreational content online. Contemplating how much of the traditional could or might be left behind is more daunting to some than to others.Moving academic libraries forward into new territory should be multi-faceted. We know that librarians and library staff are essential to seeking information and experiences', instrumental to academic success; provide instructional support, and actively collaborate with faculty. However, we must communicate a message that clearly defines that essential role.Connecting with our users \u2013 in the virtual and physical sense \u2013 requires us to assess traditional approaches and find new ways to provide the service, while improving accessibility to research. Creating alternatives and enhancing access must meet the needs of the wide diversity of our users: international users, and those with physical and/or cognitive challenges. Many such adjustments are already well established, but recognising and anticipating opportunities for improvement continues to be a priority.Future depends on library staffAnecdotally we have observed the impact of the double-edged sword of change and identified areas of need; however, basing decisions on the anecdotal highlights the need to support librarians in their own research. Through more research, we can clearly articulate the user experience and effect change with confidence and knowledge. Building our research base will also strengthen our credibility with our academic colleagues. As we introduce change, certain principles must remain constant such as intellectual freedom, confidentiality of patron records, fair dealing, open access, resource sharing through consortia partnerships, and the contribution to society. These are traditional perspectives, but they are not antiquated ideas to be left behind.Library administrators are facilitators in shaping the future of the academic library, bringing the needs of library users together with the concerns of librarians, library staff and colleagues. The future of the academic library lies with many, but ultimately depends on our ability to harmonise the seemingly contradictory and competing principles of technology, budgets, library space, services, copyright, and open access. We cannot lose sight (or heart) of the many benefits academic libraries provide.It will seem clich\u00e9d to say this, but we are not seeing the demise of the academic library any time soon. These are exciting times and the library is vibrant and ever-evolving.Nancy Black is the executive director of library services at Nipissing University, Ontario, Canada. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Management and administration", "Technology", "Infrastructure", "Research", "Open access", "Academics", "Student experience", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Library futures: Nipissing University, Canada"},{"date": "2013-09-25T12:12:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Listen on BandcampWhen it comes to electro-pop, Canada has a great tradition, ranging from TransX to Mitsou to Fanny Bloom. Montreal-based Scarlatine (nom de plume of Judith Brodeur-Rowe) paints a very moody picture, with several shades of black and grey. No wonder one of her tracks is called Noir. But Navire is the one to dive in to, building like a big wave to give you chills. \u2022 More from Filles Sourires \u2022 New music from Australia: Milwaukee Banks \u2013 Pluto Bounce\u2022 New music from Russia: Fourth Way \u2013 Aleph", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Scarlatine \u2013 Navire: New music from Canada"},{"date": "2013-08-07T11:28:49Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Harris Learning Library is somewhat unique in that it serves the needs of a university and a college. Technology continues to bring rapid change to libraries in general and this library in particular: thousands of digitised resources are conveniently and instantly accessible to users regardless of their physical location, traditional library approaches are questioned, services evolve, and budget priorities shift. The need for information may not have changed significantly for users, but technology influences user preferences for how, when, what, where, and why they access information and library services.Reaction to every actionAccessibility to academic sources has improved but there are some challenges which I prefer to view as opportunities. Many of us have observed the double-edged sword effect: for every action there is a reaction. The library profession grapples with this in discussions that strive to balance the traditional with the new territory confronting us. These discussions are not specific to this library and we share many experiences in common with our colleagues. We too have noted declining circulation statistics and changes in face-to-face interactions at the reference desk, which we believe are related to technological advances and the increased accessibility of resources.Yet, as usage in one area falls, usage in other areas remains stable or has increased. Our library is filled to capacity and hums with activity \u2013 giving lie to the assumption that the physical entity of a library is no long necessary; libraries in their physical form provide a much appreciated haven and various amenities: access to equipment, study rooms, learning spaces, and in some instances cafes that offer another kind of sustenance for creativity.Demand for traditional approachesAlthough users are embracing digitised resources, they can be overwhelmed by the options, amount of content, and the multitude of resources. Navigating libraries' electronic resources for information is not necessarily as intuitive or attractive as using Google. Some users find ebook platforms off\u2013putting and avoid them. Electronic articles are favoured, but many users dislike reading articles online and prefer to print articles to highlight and add their reactions to the content. Such preferences suggest that reading academic content online is not as easy or relaxing as reading recreational content online. Contemplating how much of the traditional could or might be left behind is more daunting to some than to others.Moving academic libraries forward into new territory should be multi-faceted. We know that librarians and library staff are essential to seeking information and experiences', instrumental to academic success; provide instructional support, and actively collaborate with faculty. However, we must communicate a message that clearly defines that essential role.Connecting with our users \u2013 in the virtual and physical sense \u2013 requires us to assess traditional approaches and find new ways to provide the service, while improving accessibility to research. Creating alternatives and enhancing access must meet the needs of the wide diversity of our users: international users, and those with physical and/or cognitive challenges. Many such adjustments are already well established, but recognising and anticipating opportunities for improvement continues to be a priority.Future depends on library staffAnecdotally we have observed the impact of the double-edged sword of change and identified areas of need; however, basing decisions on the anecdotal highlights the need to support librarians in their own research. Through more research, we can clearly articulate the user experience and effect change with confidence and knowledge. Building our research base will also strengthen our credibility with our academic colleagues. As we introduce change, certain principles must remain constant such as intellectual freedom, confidentiality of patron records, fair dealing, open access, resource sharing through consortia partnerships, and the contribution to society. These are traditional perspectives, but they are not antiquated ideas to be left behind.Library administrators are facilitators in shaping the future of the academic library, bringing the needs of library users together with the concerns of librarians, library staff and colleagues. The future of the academic library lies with many, but ultimately depends on our ability to harmonise the seemingly contradictory and competing principles of technology, budgets, library space, services, copyright, and open access. We cannot lose sight (or heart) of the many benefits academic libraries provide.It will seem clich\u00e9d to say this, but we are not seeing the demise of the academic library any time soon. These are exciting times and the library is vibrant and ever-evolving.Nancy Black is the executive director of library services at Nipissing University, Ontario, Canada. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Management and administration", "Technology", "Infrastructure", "Research", "Open access", "Academics", "Student experience", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Library futures: Nipissing University, Canada"},{"date": "2013-09-25T12:12:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Listen on BandcampWhen it comes to electro-pop, Canada has a great tradition, ranging from TransX to Mitsou to Fanny Bloom. Montreal-based Scarlatine (nom de plume of Judith Brodeur-Rowe) paints a very moody picture, with several shades of black and grey. No wonder one of her tracks is called Noir. But Navire is the one to dive in to, building like a big wave to give you chills. \u2022 More from Filles Sourires \u2022 New music from Australia: Milwaukee Banks \u2013 Pluto Bounce\u2022 New music from Russia: Fourth Way \u2013 Aleph", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Scarlatine \u2013 Navire: New music from Canada"},{"date": "2013-09-09T04:22:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Greetings from Canada, where it's just turned midnight and the clock has struck on the first weekend of the Toronto film festival.News on The F Word, Daniel Radcliffe's third breakout film festival hit of the year (after Kill Your Darlings and Horns), as well as on Belle and The Armstrong Lie. Plus for those who need it, an instructional video will bring you right up to speed on the weekend at Tiff. Chris Michael reports from the sneak preview of Spike Jonze's new film, Her, and the Q&A afterwards.We'll have review of Jason Bateman's directorial debut, Bad Words, of Matthew (Mad Men) Weiner's first film, You Are Here, of Amma Assante's Belle, John Turturro in Fading Gigolo, Alex Gibney's The Armstrong Lie, Colin Firth in Devil's Knot, Keanu Reeves's directorial debut, Man of Tai Chi, Cory Monteith's final film, McCanick, and Chiwitel Ejofor's other film this fest, Half of a Yellow Sun. And, if you can stay up late enough, the verdict on Monday's big Oscar contender, August: Osage County. \u2022\u00a0Charlie Hunnam says Queer as Folk will prepare him for 50 Shades sex scenes\u2022\u00a0Tom Hiddleston set for Guillermo Del Toro's Crimson Peak\u2022\u00a0Gemma Arterton and Tim Roth eye Christopher Nolan-scripted Ruth Rendell thriller\u00a0The Keys to the Street\u2022\u00a0Anne of Green Gables coming to big screen\u2022\u00a0Nicole Kidman in talks for Werner Herzog's Queen of the Desert\u2022 Emma Watson set for film of Emma Forrest's memoir Your Voice in My Head\u2022\u00a0Jeremy Kay tells us five things we learned from the US box office this weekend, including why this is the weakest weekend in yonks and the rising pulling power of Hispanic audiences. \u2022\u00a0We've an exclusive trailer, launching 9am GMT, of Justin Chadwick's Mandela biopic. Toronto kept us busy over the weekend. Have you done your homework yet? Hop to it!\u2022\u00a0Paul MacInnes reports from the 30th anniversary event for The Big Chill and from the live read of Boogie Nights. \u2022 Four stars for Dallas Buyers Club.\u2022\u00a0News and review of Labor Day.\u2022 Daniel Radcliffe grows Horns. \u2022\u00a0Ralph Fiennes talks Charles Dickens.\u2022\u00a0News on the premiere, press conference and a first look review of Steve McQueen's 12 Years a Slave. \u2022\u00a0News and review on Colin Firth in The Railway Man.\u2022\u00a0News and review of Idris Elba as Nelson Mandela. \u2022\u00a0Five stars for Richard Ayoade's The Double.\u2022\u00a0Director of James Gandolfini's last film pays tribute to the star and here's a review of the movie\u2022\u00a0Andrew Pulver rounds up the second week at Venice\u2022\u00a0It was Guy Lodge's inaugural DVD column. \u2022\u00a0And the man he took over from, Mark Kermode, with his first week of reviews, including About Time, Riddick and Ain't Them Bodies Saints.\u2022 John Hurt talked about his buzzy bees film. \u2022\u00a0Beeban Kidron on latest film InRealLife. \u2022\u00a0And the Observer profiled Jack Nicholson.", "tags": ["Toronto film festival"], "title": "Film today: Canada dry, Toronto teeming"},{"date": "2013-08-07T11:28:49Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Harris Learning Library is somewhat unique in that it serves the needs of a university and a college. Technology continues to bring rapid change to libraries in general and this library in particular: thousands of digitised resources are conveniently and instantly accessible to users regardless of their physical location, traditional library approaches are questioned, services evolve, and budget priorities shift. The need for information may not have changed significantly for users, but technology influences user preferences for how, when, what, where, and why they access information and library services.Reaction to every actionAccessibility to academic sources has improved but there are some challenges which I prefer to view as opportunities. Many of us have observed the double-edged sword effect: for every action there is a reaction. The library profession grapples with this in discussions that strive to balance the traditional with the new territory confronting us. These discussions are not specific to this library and we share many experiences in common with our colleagues. We too have noted declining circulation statistics and changes in face-to-face interactions at the reference desk, which we believe are related to technological advances and the increased accessibility of resources.Yet, as usage in one area falls, usage in other areas remains stable or has increased. Our library is filled to capacity and hums with activity \u2013 giving lie to the assumption that the physical entity of a library is no long necessary; libraries in their physical form provide a much appreciated haven and various amenities: access to equipment, study rooms, learning spaces, and in some instances cafes that offer another kind of sustenance for creativity.Demand for traditional approachesAlthough users are embracing digitised resources, they can be overwhelmed by the options, amount of content, and the multitude of resources. Navigating libraries' electronic resources for information is not necessarily as intuitive or attractive as using Google. Some users find ebook platforms off\u2013putting and avoid them. Electronic articles are favoured, but many users dislike reading articles online and prefer to print articles to highlight and add their reactions to the content. Such preferences suggest that reading academic content online is not as easy or relaxing as reading recreational content online. Contemplating how much of the traditional could or might be left behind is more daunting to some than to others.Moving academic libraries forward into new territory should be multi-faceted. We know that librarians and library staff are essential to seeking information and experiences', instrumental to academic success; provide instructional support, and actively collaborate with faculty. However, we must communicate a message that clearly defines that essential role.Connecting with our users \u2013 in the virtual and physical sense \u2013 requires us to assess traditional approaches and find new ways to provide the service, while improving accessibility to research. Creating alternatives and enhancing access must meet the needs of the wide diversity of our users: international users, and those with physical and/or cognitive challenges. Many such adjustments are already well established, but recognising and anticipating opportunities for improvement continues to be a priority.Future depends on library staffAnecdotally we have observed the impact of the double-edged sword of change and identified areas of need; however, basing decisions on the anecdotal highlights the need to support librarians in their own research. Through more research, we can clearly articulate the user experience and effect change with confidence and knowledge. Building our research base will also strengthen our credibility with our academic colleagues. As we introduce change, certain principles must remain constant such as intellectual freedom, confidentiality of patron records, fair dealing, open access, resource sharing through consortia partnerships, and the contribution to society. These are traditional perspectives, but they are not antiquated ideas to be left behind.Library administrators are facilitators in shaping the future of the academic library, bringing the needs of library users together with the concerns of librarians, library staff and colleagues. The future of the academic library lies with many, but ultimately depends on our ability to harmonise the seemingly contradictory and competing principles of technology, budgets, library space, services, copyright, and open access. We cannot lose sight (or heart) of the many benefits academic libraries provide.It will seem clich\u00e9d to say this, but we are not seeing the demise of the academic library any time soon. These are exciting times and the library is vibrant and ever-evolving.Nancy Black is the executive director of library services at Nipissing University, Ontario, Canada. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Management and administration", "Technology", "Infrastructure", "Research", "Open access", "Academics", "Student experience", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Library futures: Nipissing University, Canada"},{"date": "2013-09-25T12:12:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Listen on BandcampWhen it comes to electro-pop, Canada has a great tradition, ranging from TransX to Mitsou to Fanny Bloom. Montreal-based Scarlatine (nom de plume of Judith Brodeur-Rowe) paints a very moody picture, with several shades of black and grey. No wonder one of her tracks is called Noir. But Navire is the one to dive in to, building like a big wave to give you chills. \u2022 More from Filles Sourires \u2022 New music from Australia: Milwaukee Banks \u2013 Pluto Bounce\u2022 New music from Russia: Fourth Way \u2013 Aleph", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Scarlatine \u2013 Navire: New music from Canada"},{"date": "2013-09-09T04:22:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Greetings from Canada, where it's just turned midnight and the clock has struck on the first weekend of the Toronto film festival.News on The F Word, Daniel Radcliffe's third breakout film festival hit of the year (after Kill Your Darlings and Horns), as well as on Belle and The Armstrong Lie. Plus for those who need it, an instructional video will bring you right up to speed on the weekend at Tiff. Chris Michael reports from the sneak preview of Spike Jonze's new film, Her, and the Q&A afterwards.We'll have review of Jason Bateman's directorial debut, Bad Words, of Matthew (Mad Men) Weiner's first film, You Are Here, of Amma Assante's Belle, John Turturro in Fading Gigolo, Alex Gibney's The Armstrong Lie, Colin Firth in Devil's Knot, Keanu Reeves's directorial debut, Man of Tai Chi, Cory Monteith's final film, McCanick, and Chiwitel Ejofor's other film this fest, Half of a Yellow Sun. And, if you can stay up late enough, the verdict on Monday's big Oscar contender, August: Osage County. \u2022\u00a0Charlie Hunnam says Queer as Folk will prepare him for 50 Shades sex scenes\u2022\u00a0Tom Hiddleston set for Guillermo Del Toro's Crimson Peak\u2022\u00a0Gemma Arterton and Tim Roth eye Christopher Nolan-scripted Ruth Rendell thriller\u00a0The Keys to the Street\u2022\u00a0Anne of Green Gables coming to big screen\u2022\u00a0Nicole Kidman in talks for Werner Herzog's Queen of the Desert\u2022 Emma Watson set for film of Emma Forrest's memoir Your Voice in My Head\u2022\u00a0Jeremy Kay tells us five things we learned from the US box office this weekend, including why this is the weakest weekend in yonks and the rising pulling power of Hispanic audiences. \u2022\u00a0We've an exclusive trailer, launching 9am GMT, of Justin Chadwick's Mandela biopic. Toronto kept us busy over the weekend. Have you done your homework yet? Hop to it!\u2022\u00a0Paul MacInnes reports from the 30th anniversary event for The Big Chill and from the live read of Boogie Nights. \u2022 Four stars for Dallas Buyers Club.\u2022\u00a0News and review of Labor Day.\u2022 Daniel Radcliffe grows Horns. \u2022\u00a0Ralph Fiennes talks Charles Dickens.\u2022\u00a0News on the premiere, press conference and a first look review of Steve McQueen's 12 Years a Slave. \u2022\u00a0News and review on Colin Firth in The Railway Man.\u2022\u00a0News and review of Idris Elba as Nelson Mandela. \u2022\u00a0Five stars for Richard Ayoade's The Double.\u2022\u00a0Director of James Gandolfini's last film pays tribute to the star and here's a review of the movie\u2022\u00a0Andrew Pulver rounds up the second week at Venice\u2022\u00a0It was Guy Lodge's inaugural DVD column. \u2022\u00a0And the man he took over from, Mark Kermode, with his first week of reviews, including About Time, Riddick and Ain't Them Bodies Saints.\u2022 John Hurt talked about his buzzy bees film. \u2022\u00a0Beeban Kidron on latest film InRealLife. \u2022\u00a0And the Observer profiled Jack Nicholson.", "tags": ["Toronto film festival"], "title": "Film today: Canada dry, Toronto teeming"},{"date": "2013-07-28T14:27:39Z", "country": "canada", "content": " In an age in which explorers are running out of wildernesses and life has been street-mapped to the ends of the earth, it is a rare moment indeed: the discovery of uncharted waterfalls on a river in a G8 country.Adam Shoalts was canoeing along a\u00a0section of the Again river in northern Canada when he found himself hurtling down 12 metres (40ft) into swirling white water. The tumble ruined his boat but piqued his curiosity. The waterfall could well be the largest discovered in Canada in 100 years. Shoalts went on to discover six other falls on the river.\"It's a pretty big deal that you still have unexplored territory in this day and age,\" said Shoalts, who is now planning to revisit his inadvertent discovery to plot and measure the falls. With financial backing from the Royal Canadian Geographical Society (RCGS), his work will be used to update maps for one of the least explored and most remote areas in the world.\"Many organisations are just sponsoring athletic contests, like going to the north pole \u2026 routes and journeys that have been done many times before,\" he\u00a0said.Since his first canoe expedition in 2004, Shoalts has uncovered petroglyphs (rock carvings) in British Columbia; spent 40 days cataloguing amphibians in the Amazon; and dodged polar bears on a newly paddled Again tributary that he hopes to name.\"Given the documentation of these waterfalls, we clearly still have gems to be revealed,\" said Michael Schmidt, the vice-chair of the RCGS expedition committee. \"Perhaps it's not to the magnitude of what explorers would have seen 150 years ago. [But] there is still much to\u00a0be discovered.\"Returning to the falls he found last year will be a harrowing one-man journey for Shoalts, harking back to treacherous wildernesses faced by early explorers. The Hudson Bay lowlands are roughly the same size as Britain but with a population density of fewer than one person per 50 sq km.Without adequate landing for float planes, reaching the Again's headwaters means skirting the dangerous Kattawagami river, which claimed a canoeist's life in 2006, paddling upstream against Shoalts's unnamed tributary and carrying a boat through the world's third largest wetland.\"I used to say that canoeing the river is the easy part because you have to go through such a nightmare to actually reach the thing,\" he said. \"I guess that's the reason these areas \u2026 have been passed over or skipped.\"But old mapping techniques share the blame, Schmidt explained. Our knowledge of the Again's topography, like that of much of Canada, relies on aerial photographs from the 1960s. The Geological Survey of Canada, responsible for topographic updates, will add Shoalts's plotted waterfalls pending verification from Spot satellite\u00a0imagery.\"There's still a lot of work left to be done. That's reality,\" said Shoalts. \"Canada's so vast. Even if I do this the rest of my life, all my work would still only be\u00a0a\u00a0drop in the bucket.\"We don't know the world nearly as well as we think we do.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "Rivers", "Environment", "World news", "Geography", "Science"], "title": "Canoeist discovers uncharted waterfalls in Canada"},{"date": "2013-08-07T11:28:49Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Harris Learning Library is somewhat unique in that it serves the needs of a university and a college. Technology continues to bring rapid change to libraries in general and this library in particular: thousands of digitised resources are conveniently and instantly accessible to users regardless of their physical location, traditional library approaches are questioned, services evolve, and budget priorities shift. The need for information may not have changed significantly for users, but technology influences user preferences for how, when, what, where, and why they access information and library services.Reaction to every actionAccessibility to academic sources has improved but there are some challenges which I prefer to view as opportunities. Many of us have observed the double-edged sword effect: for every action there is a reaction. The library profession grapples with this in discussions that strive to balance the traditional with the new territory confronting us. These discussions are not specific to this library and we share many experiences in common with our colleagues. We too have noted declining circulation statistics and changes in face-to-face interactions at the reference desk, which we believe are related to technological advances and the increased accessibility of resources.Yet, as usage in one area falls, usage in other areas remains stable or has increased. Our library is filled to capacity and hums with activity \u2013 giving lie to the assumption that the physical entity of a library is no long necessary; libraries in their physical form provide a much appreciated haven and various amenities: access to equipment, study rooms, learning spaces, and in some instances cafes that offer another kind of sustenance for creativity.Demand for traditional approachesAlthough users are embracing digitised resources, they can be overwhelmed by the options, amount of content, and the multitude of resources. Navigating libraries' electronic resources for information is not necessarily as intuitive or attractive as using Google. Some users find ebook platforms off\u2013putting and avoid them. Electronic articles are favoured, but many users dislike reading articles online and prefer to print articles to highlight and add their reactions to the content. Such preferences suggest that reading academic content online is not as easy or relaxing as reading recreational content online. Contemplating how much of the traditional could or might be left behind is more daunting to some than to others.Moving academic libraries forward into new territory should be multi-faceted. We know that librarians and library staff are essential to seeking information and experiences', instrumental to academic success; provide instructional support, and actively collaborate with faculty. However, we must communicate a message that clearly defines that essential role.Connecting with our users \u2013 in the virtual and physical sense \u2013 requires us to assess traditional approaches and find new ways to provide the service, while improving accessibility to research. Creating alternatives and enhancing access must meet the needs of the wide diversity of our users: international users, and those with physical and/or cognitive challenges. Many such adjustments are already well established, but recognising and anticipating opportunities for improvement continues to be a priority.Future depends on library staffAnecdotally we have observed the impact of the double-edged sword of change and identified areas of need; however, basing decisions on the anecdotal highlights the need to support librarians in their own research. Through more research, we can clearly articulate the user experience and effect change with confidence and knowledge. Building our research base will also strengthen our credibility with our academic colleagues. As we introduce change, certain principles must remain constant such as intellectual freedom, confidentiality of patron records, fair dealing, open access, resource sharing through consortia partnerships, and the contribution to society. These are traditional perspectives, but they are not antiquated ideas to be left behind.Library administrators are facilitators in shaping the future of the academic library, bringing the needs of library users together with the concerns of librarians, library staff and colleagues. The future of the academic library lies with many, but ultimately depends on our ability to harmonise the seemingly contradictory and competing principles of technology, budgets, library space, services, copyright, and open access. We cannot lose sight (or heart) of the many benefits academic libraries provide.It will seem clich\u00e9d to say this, but we are not seeing the demise of the academic library any time soon. These are exciting times and the library is vibrant and ever-evolving.Nancy Black is the executive director of library services at Nipissing University, Ontario, Canada. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Management and administration", "Technology", "Infrastructure", "Research", "Open access", "Academics", "Student experience", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Library futures: Nipissing University, Canada"},{"date": "2013-09-25T12:12:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Listen on BandcampWhen it comes to electro-pop, Canada has a great tradition, ranging from TransX to Mitsou to Fanny Bloom. Montreal-based Scarlatine (nom de plume of Judith Brodeur-Rowe) paints a very moody picture, with several shades of black and grey. No wonder one of her tracks is called Noir. But Navire is the one to dive in to, building like a big wave to give you chills. \u2022 More from Filles Sourires \u2022 New music from Australia: Milwaukee Banks \u2013 Pluto Bounce\u2022 New music from Russia: Fourth Way \u2013 Aleph", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Scarlatine \u2013 Navire: New music from Canada"},{"date": "2013-09-09T04:22:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Greetings from Canada, where it's just turned midnight and the clock has struck on the first weekend of the Toronto film festival.News on The F Word, Daniel Radcliffe's third breakout film festival hit of the year (after Kill Your Darlings and Horns), as well as on Belle and The Armstrong Lie. Plus for those who need it, an instructional video will bring you right up to speed on the weekend at Tiff. Chris Michael reports from the sneak preview of Spike Jonze's new film, Her, and the Q&A afterwards.We'll have review of Jason Bateman's directorial debut, Bad Words, of Matthew (Mad Men) Weiner's first film, You Are Here, of Amma Assante's Belle, John Turturro in Fading Gigolo, Alex Gibney's The Armstrong Lie, Colin Firth in Devil's Knot, Keanu Reeves's directorial debut, Man of Tai Chi, Cory Monteith's final film, McCanick, and Chiwitel Ejofor's other film this fest, Half of a Yellow Sun. And, if you can stay up late enough, the verdict on Monday's big Oscar contender, August: Osage County. \u2022\u00a0Charlie Hunnam says Queer as Folk will prepare him for 50 Shades sex scenes\u2022\u00a0Tom Hiddleston set for Guillermo Del Toro's Crimson Peak\u2022\u00a0Gemma Arterton and Tim Roth eye Christopher Nolan-scripted Ruth Rendell thriller\u00a0The Keys to the Street\u2022\u00a0Anne of Green Gables coming to big screen\u2022\u00a0Nicole Kidman in talks for Werner Herzog's Queen of the Desert\u2022 Emma Watson set for film of Emma Forrest's memoir Your Voice in My Head\u2022\u00a0Jeremy Kay tells us five things we learned from the US box office this weekend, including why this is the weakest weekend in yonks and the rising pulling power of Hispanic audiences. \u2022\u00a0We've an exclusive trailer, launching 9am GMT, of Justin Chadwick's Mandela biopic. Toronto kept us busy over the weekend. Have you done your homework yet? Hop to it!\u2022\u00a0Paul MacInnes reports from the 30th anniversary event for The Big Chill and from the live read of Boogie Nights. \u2022 Four stars for Dallas Buyers Club.\u2022\u00a0News and review of Labor Day.\u2022 Daniel Radcliffe grows Horns. \u2022\u00a0Ralph Fiennes talks Charles Dickens.\u2022\u00a0News on the premiere, press conference and a first look review of Steve McQueen's 12 Years a Slave. \u2022\u00a0News and review on Colin Firth in The Railway Man.\u2022\u00a0News and review of Idris Elba as Nelson Mandela. \u2022\u00a0Five stars for Richard Ayoade's The Double.\u2022\u00a0Director of James Gandolfini's last film pays tribute to the star and here's a review of the movie\u2022\u00a0Andrew Pulver rounds up the second week at Venice\u2022\u00a0It was Guy Lodge's inaugural DVD column. \u2022\u00a0And the man he took over from, Mark Kermode, with his first week of reviews, including About Time, Riddick and Ain't Them Bodies Saints.\u2022 John Hurt talked about his buzzy bees film. \u2022\u00a0Beeban Kidron on latest film InRealLife. \u2022\u00a0And the Observer profiled Jack Nicholson.", "tags": ["Toronto film festival"], "title": "Film today: Canada dry, Toronto teeming"},{"date": "2013-07-28T14:27:39Z", "country": "canada", "content": " In an age in which explorers are running out of wildernesses and life has been street-mapped to the ends of the earth, it is a rare moment indeed: the discovery of uncharted waterfalls on a river in a G8 country.Adam Shoalts was canoeing along a\u00a0section of the Again river in northern Canada when he found himself hurtling down 12 metres (40ft) into swirling white water. The tumble ruined his boat but piqued his curiosity. The waterfall could well be the largest discovered in Canada in 100 years. Shoalts went on to discover six other falls on the river.\"It's a pretty big deal that you still have unexplored territory in this day and age,\" said Shoalts, who is now planning to revisit his inadvertent discovery to plot and measure the falls. With financial backing from the Royal Canadian Geographical Society (RCGS), his work will be used to update maps for one of the least explored and most remote areas in the world.\"Many organisations are just sponsoring athletic contests, like going to the north pole \u2026 routes and journeys that have been done many times before,\" he\u00a0said.Since his first canoe expedition in 2004, Shoalts has uncovered petroglyphs (rock carvings) in British Columbia; spent 40 days cataloguing amphibians in the Amazon; and dodged polar bears on a newly paddled Again tributary that he hopes to name.\"Given the documentation of these waterfalls, we clearly still have gems to be revealed,\" said Michael Schmidt, the vice-chair of the RCGS expedition committee. \"Perhaps it's not to the magnitude of what explorers would have seen 150 years ago. [But] there is still much to\u00a0be discovered.\"Returning to the falls he found last year will be a harrowing one-man journey for Shoalts, harking back to treacherous wildernesses faced by early explorers. The Hudson Bay lowlands are roughly the same size as Britain but with a population density of fewer than one person per 50 sq km.Without adequate landing for float planes, reaching the Again's headwaters means skirting the dangerous Kattawagami river, which claimed a canoeist's life in 2006, paddling upstream against Shoalts's unnamed tributary and carrying a boat through the world's third largest wetland.\"I used to say that canoeing the river is the easy part because you have to go through such a nightmare to actually reach the thing,\" he said. \"I guess that's the reason these areas \u2026 have been passed over or skipped.\"But old mapping techniques share the blame, Schmidt explained. Our knowledge of the Again's topography, like that of much of Canada, relies on aerial photographs from the 1960s. The Geological Survey of Canada, responsible for topographic updates, will add Shoalts's plotted waterfalls pending verification from Spot satellite\u00a0imagery.\"There's still a lot of work left to be done. That's reality,\" said Shoalts. \"Canada's so vast. Even if I do this the rest of my life, all my work would still only be\u00a0a\u00a0drop in the bucket.\"We don't know the world nearly as well as we think we do.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "Rivers", "Environment", "World news", "Geography", "Science"], "title": "Canoeist discovers uncharted waterfalls in Canada"},{"date": "2013-09-14T09:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "An investigation has revealed 3,000 fake civil servants who receive monthly salaries from the government despite holding no official positions. Some suspects have been arrested, including fraudulent state employees with counterfeit diplomas and fake assignments, officials said. Gabon's civil service employs 70,000 workers serving a population of 1.5 million. The government launched an overhaul of its civil service in 2009 after estimating that there were up to 10,000 fake employees, costing the central African nation 24 billion CFA francs ($50.3m) in salaries a year.Women consistently outperform men at securing top jobs in the Irish civil service, according to a report published by the top level appointments committee this week. While women only represent 24% of applicants, they succeed in higher proportions at all stages of the civil service application process. Five years ago 12.5% of appointments were female, but since 2010 women have accounted for 41% of appointments. The report also highlights an increase in the number of private sector candidates for civil service positions.The union representing Quebec's civil servants has backed a controversial charter of values which would ban public employees in the province from wearing religious symbols, including hijabs, turbans and large crucifixes. Union president Lucie Martineau said that civil servants are obliged to keep their personal opinions to themselves, and that should be extended to include religious opinions. Critics of the charter say it is a bureaucratic mess and unconstitutional.The vice president of China, Li Yuanchao, praised Hong Kong's civil servants for their contribution to the city, at a meeting with a delegation of 11 permanent secretaries in Beijing on 12 September. Li said the civil service played an important role in maintaining Hong Kong's stability, prosperity and autonomy. He also said the Chinese central government fully supports Hong Kong chief executive Leung Chun-ying's administration.It will take 120 years for women to make up half of world leaders and more than 50 years before they are equally represented in parliaments worldwide, warned a report by international development charity Voluntary Service Overseas (VSO), released on Tuesday 10 September. The report, Women in Power: Beyond access to influence in a post-2015 world, found that just 13 out of 193 heads of government are women, one in five of the world's parliamentarians is female, and women hold 17% of ministerial positions worldwide and just 10 of the 195 mayorial positions in capital cities.More than 150 VSO volunteers met MPs in Westminster to ask the UK government to lead the way in tackling this injustice. VSO UK Director, Angela Salt, said: \"Every day, VSO's volunteers see first-hand the barriers women face in political and public life. Women's voices must be a part of the solution to poverty. It is about making sure women everywhere have an equal say in public decisions affecting them, their family, community and country. With the UN working towards a new global development agenda, it's time for the UK to demonstrate its commitment to women's rights across the globe.\"VSO works in countries such as Tanzania, Nepal and Cameroon to boost women's influence over public life.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Gabon", "Quebec", "Ireland", "Hong Kong", "Canada", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Global roundup: civil service news from Canada, Ireland, Gabon and Hong Kong"},{"date": "2013-08-07T11:28:49Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Harris Learning Library is somewhat unique in that it serves the needs of a university and a college. Technology continues to bring rapid change to libraries in general and this library in particular: thousands of digitised resources are conveniently and instantly accessible to users regardless of their physical location, traditional library approaches are questioned, services evolve, and budget priorities shift. The need for information may not have changed significantly for users, but technology influences user preferences for how, when, what, where, and why they access information and library services.Reaction to every actionAccessibility to academic sources has improved but there are some challenges which I prefer to view as opportunities. Many of us have observed the double-edged sword effect: for every action there is a reaction. The library profession grapples with this in discussions that strive to balance the traditional with the new territory confronting us. These discussions are not specific to this library and we share many experiences in common with our colleagues. We too have noted declining circulation statistics and changes in face-to-face interactions at the reference desk, which we believe are related to technological advances and the increased accessibility of resources.Yet, as usage in one area falls, usage in other areas remains stable or has increased. Our library is filled to capacity and hums with activity \u2013 giving lie to the assumption that the physical entity of a library is no long necessary; libraries in their physical form provide a much appreciated haven and various amenities: access to equipment, study rooms, learning spaces, and in some instances cafes that offer another kind of sustenance for creativity.Demand for traditional approachesAlthough users are embracing digitised resources, they can be overwhelmed by the options, amount of content, and the multitude of resources. Navigating libraries' electronic resources for information is not necessarily as intuitive or attractive as using Google. Some users find ebook platforms off\u2013putting and avoid them. Electronic articles are favoured, but many users dislike reading articles online and prefer to print articles to highlight and add their reactions to the content. Such preferences suggest that reading academic content online is not as easy or relaxing as reading recreational content online. Contemplating how much of the traditional could or might be left behind is more daunting to some than to others.Moving academic libraries forward into new territory should be multi-faceted. We know that librarians and library staff are essential to seeking information and experiences', instrumental to academic success; provide instructional support, and actively collaborate with faculty. However, we must communicate a message that clearly defines that essential role.Connecting with our users \u2013 in the virtual and physical sense \u2013 requires us to assess traditional approaches and find new ways to provide the service, while improving accessibility to research. Creating alternatives and enhancing access must meet the needs of the wide diversity of our users: international users, and those with physical and/or cognitive challenges. Many such adjustments are already well established, but recognising and anticipating opportunities for improvement continues to be a priority.Future depends on library staffAnecdotally we have observed the impact of the double-edged sword of change and identified areas of need; however, basing decisions on the anecdotal highlights the need to support librarians in their own research. Through more research, we can clearly articulate the user experience and effect change with confidence and knowledge. Building our research base will also strengthen our credibility with our academic colleagues. As we introduce change, certain principles must remain constant such as intellectual freedom, confidentiality of patron records, fair dealing, open access, resource sharing through consortia partnerships, and the contribution to society. These are traditional perspectives, but they are not antiquated ideas to be left behind.Library administrators are facilitators in shaping the future of the academic library, bringing the needs of library users together with the concerns of librarians, library staff and colleagues. The future of the academic library lies with many, but ultimately depends on our ability to harmonise the seemingly contradictory and competing principles of technology, budgets, library space, services, copyright, and open access. We cannot lose sight (or heart) of the many benefits academic libraries provide.It will seem clich\u00e9d to say this, but we are not seeing the demise of the academic library any time soon. These are exciting times and the library is vibrant and ever-evolving.Nancy Black is the executive director of library services at Nipissing University, Ontario, Canada. This content is brought to you by Guardian Professional. To get more articles like this direct to your inbox, become a member of the Higher Education Network.", "tags": ["Higher Education Network", "International", "Management and administration", "Technology", "Infrastructure", "Research", "Open access", "Academics", "Student experience", "Higher education", "Education"], "title": "Library futures: Nipissing University, Canada"},{"date": "2013-09-25T12:12:22Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Listen on BandcampWhen it comes to electro-pop, Canada has a great tradition, ranging from TransX to Mitsou to Fanny Bloom. Montreal-based Scarlatine (nom de plume of Judith Brodeur-Rowe) paints a very moody picture, with several shades of black and grey. No wonder one of her tracks is called Noir. But Navire is the one to dive in to, building like a big wave to give you chills. \u2022 More from Filles Sourires \u2022 New music from Australia: Milwaukee Banks \u2013 Pluto Bounce\u2022 New music from Russia: Fourth Way \u2013 Aleph", "tags": ["Music", "Culture"], "title": "Scarlatine \u2013 Navire: New music from Canada"},{"date": "2013-09-09T04:22:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Greetings from Canada, where it's just turned midnight and the clock has struck on the first weekend of the Toronto film festival.News on The F Word, Daniel Radcliffe's third breakout film festival hit of the year (after Kill Your Darlings and Horns), as well as on Belle and The Armstrong Lie. Plus for those who need it, an instructional video will bring you right up to speed on the weekend at Tiff. Chris Michael reports from the sneak preview of Spike Jonze's new film, Her, and the Q&A afterwards.We'll have review of Jason Bateman's directorial debut, Bad Words, of Matthew (Mad Men) Weiner's first film, You Are Here, of Amma Assante's Belle, John Turturro in Fading Gigolo, Alex Gibney's The Armstrong Lie, Colin Firth in Devil's Knot, Keanu Reeves's directorial debut, Man of Tai Chi, Cory Monteith's final film, McCanick, and Chiwitel Ejofor's other film this fest, Half of a Yellow Sun. And, if you can stay up late enough, the verdict on Monday's big Oscar contender, August: Osage County. \u2022\u00a0Charlie Hunnam says Queer as Folk will prepare him for 50 Shades sex scenes\u2022\u00a0Tom Hiddleston set for Guillermo Del Toro's Crimson Peak\u2022\u00a0Gemma Arterton and Tim Roth eye Christopher Nolan-scripted Ruth Rendell thriller\u00a0The Keys to the Street\u2022\u00a0Anne of Green Gables coming to big screen\u2022\u00a0Nicole Kidman in talks for Werner Herzog's Queen of the Desert\u2022 Emma Watson set for film of Emma Forrest's memoir Your Voice in My Head\u2022\u00a0Jeremy Kay tells us five things we learned from the US box office this weekend, including why this is the weakest weekend in yonks and the rising pulling power of Hispanic audiences. \u2022\u00a0We've an exclusive trailer, launching 9am GMT, of Justin Chadwick's Mandela biopic. Toronto kept us busy over the weekend. Have you done your homework yet? Hop to it!\u2022\u00a0Paul MacInnes reports from the 30th anniversary event for The Big Chill and from the live read of Boogie Nights. \u2022 Four stars for Dallas Buyers Club.\u2022\u00a0News and review of Labor Day.\u2022 Daniel Radcliffe grows Horns. \u2022\u00a0Ralph Fiennes talks Charles Dickens.\u2022\u00a0News on the premiere, press conference and a first look review of Steve McQueen's 12 Years a Slave. \u2022\u00a0News and review on Colin Firth in The Railway Man.\u2022\u00a0News and review of Idris Elba as Nelson Mandela. \u2022\u00a0Five stars for Richard Ayoade's The Double.\u2022\u00a0Director of James Gandolfini's last film pays tribute to the star and here's a review of the movie\u2022\u00a0Andrew Pulver rounds up the second week at Venice\u2022\u00a0It was Guy Lodge's inaugural DVD column. \u2022\u00a0And the man he took over from, Mark Kermode, with his first week of reviews, including About Time, Riddick and Ain't Them Bodies Saints.\u2022 John Hurt talked about his buzzy bees film. \u2022\u00a0Beeban Kidron on latest film InRealLife. \u2022\u00a0And the Observer profiled Jack Nicholson.", "tags": ["Toronto film festival"], "title": "Film today: Canada dry, Toronto teeming"},{"date": "2013-07-28T14:27:39Z", "country": "canada", "content": " In an age in which explorers are running out of wildernesses and life has been street-mapped to the ends of the earth, it is a rare moment indeed: the discovery of uncharted waterfalls on a river in a G8 country.Adam Shoalts was canoeing along a\u00a0section of the Again river in northern Canada when he found himself hurtling down 12 metres (40ft) into swirling white water. The tumble ruined his boat but piqued his curiosity. The waterfall could well be the largest discovered in Canada in 100 years. Shoalts went on to discover six other falls on the river.\"It's a pretty big deal that you still have unexplored territory in this day and age,\" said Shoalts, who is now planning to revisit his inadvertent discovery to plot and measure the falls. With financial backing from the Royal Canadian Geographical Society (RCGS), his work will be used to update maps for one of the least explored and most remote areas in the world.\"Many organisations are just sponsoring athletic contests, like going to the north pole \u2026 routes and journeys that have been done many times before,\" he\u00a0said.Since his first canoe expedition in 2004, Shoalts has uncovered petroglyphs (rock carvings) in British Columbia; spent 40 days cataloguing amphibians in the Amazon; and dodged polar bears on a newly paddled Again tributary that he hopes to name.\"Given the documentation of these waterfalls, we clearly still have gems to be revealed,\" said Michael Schmidt, the vice-chair of the RCGS expedition committee. \"Perhaps it's not to the magnitude of what explorers would have seen 150 years ago. [But] there is still much to\u00a0be discovered.\"Returning to the falls he found last year will be a harrowing one-man journey for Shoalts, harking back to treacherous wildernesses faced by early explorers. The Hudson Bay lowlands are roughly the same size as Britain but with a population density of fewer than one person per 50 sq km.Without adequate landing for float planes, reaching the Again's headwaters means skirting the dangerous Kattawagami river, which claimed a canoeist's life in 2006, paddling upstream against Shoalts's unnamed tributary and carrying a boat through the world's third largest wetland.\"I used to say that canoeing the river is the easy part because you have to go through such a nightmare to actually reach the thing,\" he said. \"I guess that's the reason these areas \u2026 have been passed over or skipped.\"But old mapping techniques share the blame, Schmidt explained. Our knowledge of the Again's topography, like that of much of Canada, relies on aerial photographs from the 1960s. The Geological Survey of Canada, responsible for topographic updates, will add Shoalts's plotted waterfalls pending verification from Spot satellite\u00a0imagery.\"There's still a lot of work left to be done. That's reality,\" said Shoalts. \"Canada's so vast. Even if I do this the rest of my life, all my work would still only be\u00a0a\u00a0drop in the bucket.\"We don't know the world nearly as well as we think we do.\"", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "Rivers", "Environment", "World news", "Geography", "Science"], "title": "Canoeist discovers uncharted waterfalls in Canada"},{"date": "2013-09-14T09:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "An investigation has revealed 3,000 fake civil servants who receive monthly salaries from the government despite holding no official positions. Some suspects have been arrested, including fraudulent state employees with counterfeit diplomas and fake assignments, officials said. Gabon's civil service employs 70,000 workers serving a population of 1.5 million. The government launched an overhaul of its civil service in 2009 after estimating that there were up to 10,000 fake employees, costing the central African nation 24 billion CFA francs ($50.3m) in salaries a year.Women consistently outperform men at securing top jobs in the Irish civil service, according to a report published by the top level appointments committee this week. While women only represent 24% of applicants, they succeed in higher proportions at all stages of the civil service application process. Five years ago 12.5% of appointments were female, but since 2010 women have accounted for 41% of appointments. The report also highlights an increase in the number of private sector candidates for civil service positions.The union representing Quebec's civil servants has backed a controversial charter of values which would ban public employees in the province from wearing religious symbols, including hijabs, turbans and large crucifixes. Union president Lucie Martineau said that civil servants are obliged to keep their personal opinions to themselves, and that should be extended to include religious opinions. Critics of the charter say it is a bureaucratic mess and unconstitutional.The vice president of China, Li Yuanchao, praised Hong Kong's civil servants for their contribution to the city, at a meeting with a delegation of 11 permanent secretaries in Beijing on 12 September. Li said the civil service played an important role in maintaining Hong Kong's stability, prosperity and autonomy. He also said the Chinese central government fully supports Hong Kong chief executive Leung Chun-ying's administration.It will take 120 years for women to make up half of world leaders and more than 50 years before they are equally represented in parliaments worldwide, warned a report by international development charity Voluntary Service Overseas (VSO), released on Tuesday 10 September. The report, Women in Power: Beyond access to influence in a post-2015 world, found that just 13 out of 193 heads of government are women, one in five of the world's parliamentarians is female, and women hold 17% of ministerial positions worldwide and just 10 of the 195 mayorial positions in capital cities.More than 150 VSO volunteers met MPs in Westminster to ask the UK government to lead the way in tackling this injustice. VSO UK Director, Angela Salt, said: \"Every day, VSO's volunteers see first-hand the barriers women face in political and public life. Women's voices must be a part of the solution to poverty. It is about making sure women everywhere have an equal say in public decisions affecting them, their family, community and country. With the UN working towards a new global development agenda, it's time for the UK to demonstrate its commitment to women's rights across the globe.\"VSO works in countries such as Tanzania, Nepal and Cameroon to boost women's influence over public life.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Gabon", "Quebec", "Ireland", "Hong Kong", "Canada", "Society Professionals"], "title": "Global roundup: civil service news from Canada, Ireland, Gabon and Hong Kong"},{"date": "2013-09-13T20:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I realise we're all in this together when an elderly gentleman opens a small suitcase and I notice it is tightly packed with drugs, medicines and dressings. I examine him carefully for signs of illness or collapse, but he seems durable enough.Karen and I are in Toronto's Union station, waiting for the 10pm departure of The Canadian, a train bound for Vancouver in British Columbia, more than 2,500 miles and three-and-a-half days away. I look around at our fellow travellers and run my hand through my greying hair. I needn't have worried; I fit right in.In the dark and rain, the train glistens like a stainless-steel serpent with two massive locomotives at the head, vibrating and shaking the ground. It is so long the last coach disappears in the murk, a quarter of a mile away.I run to the front to take pictures, not realising how close we are to departure. Whistles blow and the crew yell at me, so I jump into the first car. It's a long walk back to our luxurious double cabin, through 21 cars: three \"panorama\" cars, restaurant car, kitchen car, luggage car, cars with single, double or triple cabins, cars with tables, cars with seats for the budget travellers, cars with fold-down beds and curtains in the aisle, like the one Marilyn Monroe enjoyed in Some Like it Hot.I wander through a staff meeting, clamber over some gates, and thread my way through several excited groups busy unpacking and trying out the taps in their cabins.This refurbished train was built in the 1950s and resembles an Airstream caravan, with stainless steel inside and out. But it creaks and groans the way an old train should. Crossing over the coupling between coaches, the sight of the ground rushing by beneath the steel plate brings a quick fear from childhood \u2026 and I hope I'm on the right train.A little later I'm trying to digest an enormous breakfast of eggs and bacon and pancakes and fruit and muffins and unlimited coffee \u2013 all served by graceful, good-humoured staff in impeccable surroundings, as a landscape of the forests and lakes of Ontario glides by the windows at an amiable 40mph or so.In watching trees file past the windows, I realise I could be watching a form of television: The Tree Channel. Only the occasional lakeside cabin buried by trees, and a rare level crossing over a dirt road, break up the endless forest. The sheer scale of the country is starting to penetrate. The numberless trees. It's as if the train is a kind of cultural time capsule from the 21st century, gliding through an ancient post-glacial landscape of trees, rock and lake, with us inside, looking out.Armstrong, Ontario, population 1,216, seems to be one tarmac road with a church, several dirt roads and a dog. I wonder what life is like here in winter and receive a small answer when I notice everyone has a pile of logs as tall as their house in their garden. The PA announces a brief stop here, so we all disembark for some air and the men walk to the front to stare at the locomotives.The PA sounds like Radar in MASH and summons us to every meal with the reminder: \"Please don't forget your ticket, folks; it's the second sitting for lunch so please bring the yellow one.\" They seem to know who doesn't appear: \"We seem to be missing two people for lunch, folks, so \u2026\"Karen and I look at each other and say nothing. If we keep quiet they'll never find us. At lunch we drink beer with pony-tailed Californians, retired \u2013 or nearly so. The clean, confident look about them makes me feel like an undernourished peasant from Europe, desperate for a life in the New World.Dinner features an outgoing Canadian pair of friends celebrating reaching 40, and doing battle with two hard-drinking Californian couples. Does Canadian money smell of maple syrup, we all wonder? And can you tear it? We're all sniffing and wrestling with bank notes until the waiters get involved to prove that no it doesn't and no you can't. And order was restored.We retreat to one of the panorama cars with a glass of wine and find four backpackers have crept in there with beer and snacks. Two boys and two girls, just met on the train and roughing it in the cheap seats at night, eating their own food.They play cards in a raucous and good-natured way, then discuss literature, French and English, since the boys are from Quebec. Karen and I are charmed by them, by their willingness to communicate, and their brittle optimism. Youth is not wasted on these four, we decide.\"What day is it?\"\"Winnipeg, this is Winnipeg, so it must be Thursday morning.\"Winnipeg station, unlike all the others, has a platform and a fence around it, which I find quite reassuring. The PA has told us to leave the train for a few hours while they change crew and \"suggests\" breakfast in the town. We're keen to obey their instructions. As we wander into a mall for breakfast we are staring at a sky full of towering, fantastical clouds \u2013 for we are now on The Prairie.I'd assumed it would be treeless and as flat as a table, but it's not. While the fields are too big to even see across, it rolls like the swell of a sea, with copses and woods dotted around.I see a house off in the immense distance, standing alone without the usual farm buildings and vehicles, surrounded by space. I've been feeling compressed, as if a piece of me has been left behind in England. I see myself sitting on the porch of this house, drinking a beer as the sun sets, admiring the view across a hundred miles of land, maybe my land, watching the sun burn it all down.Saskatoon passes in the night. We've been stopping more frequently. A stop is usually to allow a freight train to pass by, or to use the single line as they have priority over passenger trains. But this stop is for much longer and it turns out one of the locos has a problem. We're all allowed to disembark as we happen to be in a station, so in the fading light we wander up and down the gravel strip, watching the porters stationed at each door for any sign of a sudden departure. They, too, are watching out, for passengers straying too far.They needn't worry: by now we're all institutionalised and stay close to the train, the source of all comfort. We huddle in a panorama car and drink whisky, withdraw into the stainless steel cocoon: we won't get left behind when they fix the engine.In the panorama car's upper level, you can look forward over the roof and watch the sun set over the prairie. It's a gorgeous, prolonged burst of colour, with every branch of every tree picked out in perfect silhouette.But the sun is taking too long to set: we've been sitting here for hours it seems. Then I realise that this is because the train is travelling due west towards the setting sun and is playing tricks with time, or maybe it's the PA telling me to turn my watch back an hour every night because we enter a new time zone every day. Or maybe it's just the whisky.We leave the town of Jasper in the morning with a hangover and an extra locomotive to help us up the Yellowhead pass, because it's the Rocky Mountains at last. Karen sees bears and has a proper view of the mountains because she's in the observation car, which has clear Perspex walls and roof, and comfortable raised seats that allow passengers spectacular views of the snow-covered peaks.The low cloud and rain don't do justice to the sight but in the evening the cloud clears and the light paints the mountaintops gold and rose. The PA tells us we are crossing the lowest point of the continental divide in North America, at 3,718 feet: from here all rivers flow west to the Pacific, whereas before this point all rivers flow east to the Atlantic. I sit and think about this, and about the European navvies and Chinese labourers who built this railway in the 1880s.Vancouver is Canada's eighth city by population, at 600,000, but first in terms of rainfall. We're rolling through the industrial outskirts and I feel an urgency about arriving: it's been over three days of this long, narrow life and I want to be somewhere. But we're marooned in a freight siding. Freight cars crawl around us on both sides, stacked with timber or containers piled two-high, and all pulled by invisible engines as we wait for a distant signal.I'm fixating on the ends of the freight cars' wheel axles, three bolt-heads set in a triangle revolve at low speed, making a kind of spirograph effect that is somehow pleasing. I'm starting to count axles, then wheels, but now we're moving! The train reverses into Pacific Central station, where we sit on the concourse with our luggage, listening to the PA for instructions, drinking coffee and wondering what we're supposed to do now.\u2022 The trip was provided by the Canadian Tourism Commission (uk.canada.travel). A one-way sleeper ticket, including meals, from Toronto to Vancouver with Via Rail (viarail.ca) cost from C$545 (around \u00a3334). Air Transat (airtransat.co.uk) has flights from Gatwick, Manchester, Birmingham and Glasgow to Toronto and back from Vancouver from \u00a3796Read Dave's winning entry for the 2012 competition here", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Rail travel", "Travel", "Adventure travel", "Travel writing competition"], "title": "An epic rail trip across Canada: readers' travel writing competition 2012"},{"date": "2013-12-20T01:07:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was early March, 2013. Former Australian prime minister John Howard took the stage in a cavernous convention hall in Ottawa. \u201cCan I start by saying you have no reason to be concerned about the state of conservatism in this country,\u201d he told the crowd of Canadian conservatives who\u2019d gathered for the Manning Centre\u2019s annual networking conference. \u201cI can\u2019t find a better conservative leader anywhere in the world than [Canadian prime minister] Stephen Harper. I really can\u2019t.\u201d\u00a0One wonders whether Howard would say the same thing now. Not because Harper\u2019s recent domestic scandal\u00a0has called into question the purity of his party\u2019s convictions, the increasing centralisation of power in his office, and his own leadership qualities, but because he now has what many consider an ideological body-double Down Under. But as much as Canada\u2019s Conservative party membership may love to hear how similar they are to their Australian cousins, it might be one key difference that matters most in the long run.Perhaps not since Harper recited one of Howard\u2019s speeches verbatim, without credit, in the House of Commons, have the Canadian and Australian governments been reading so closely from the same page. The two nations were jointly responsible for blocking a Commonwealth initiative to establish a climate fund for poor nations in November; Abbott has, as Harper did, promised to squash asylum seekers landing ashore by boat from Asia; and Abbott\u2019s platform carried the promise of further mandatory minimum sentencing for gun crimes. The Harper government has already implemented the same for some sexual and drug offences.\u00a0So when Abbott\u2019s government killed the Australian carbon tax, it was little surprise that the loudest cheer came from Ottawa. The prime minister\u2019s parliamentary secretary, Paul Calandra, told the House\u00a0that Canada \u201capplauds\u201d the decision, and that Abbott\u2019s move \u201csends an important message.\u201d Which is true for a few reasons.It was important for the Conservative government for purely rhetorical uses. It provided fresh fodder for a tired, farcical\u00a0talking point against Canada\u2019s opposition New Democrats, who the government alleges would implement something similar if ever given power.Also important: it clearly showed the Harper Conservatives have a staunch ideological ally \u2013 finally.The fact that the two parties and leaders are allies isn\u2019t a total shock. The parallels between Abbott and Harper were easily drawn months ago. Both are economists. Both are young. Both were grown into leaders after long-term grassroots participation in conservatism. And just as easily linked are the messaging strategies, borne from continued and very close relationship between the Canadian Conservative and Australian Liberal parties. Abbott\u2019s election night promise of guaranteeing a government \u201cthat is competent, that is trustworthy, and which purposefully and steadfastly and methodically sets about delivering on our commitments,\u201d would sound nice (and familiar) to Harper\u2019s \u201cstrong, stable, national Conservative majority government.\u201d\u00a0And Conservatives will tell you the Liberals have recently turned to Harper and his team for guidance, and found a very welcoming ear. They had to return the favour, after all. Earlier this decade key figures within the Conservative party like strategic planner Patrick Muttart, were studying Australia\u2019s successes \u2013 particularly Howard\u2019s ability to covet the working- and middle-class. They adopted and adapted aspects of it to eventual success. That\u2019s useful for both sides, if only to do what Calandra did and justify each other\u2019s existence and continued power.But maybe most interestingly, Abbott\u2019s decision provides an important message for Canada\u2019s grassroots conservatives, if they want to hear it.\u00a0Harper\u2019s current troubles have come since Conservative senator Mike Duffy was found to have incorrectly billed taxpayers for living and travel expenses and that, to rectify the imbalance, Harper\u2019s then-chief of staff offered to pay it out of his own pocket. The police also allege\u00a0that other member\u2019s of Harper\u2019s inner circle knew of the payment and coached Duffy to instead tell the public a different story. Harper has claimed ignorance of the entire affair, but it has severely damaged his reputation as an incorruptible straight-shooter and a no-nonsense manager \u2013 the kind of image Abbott is also trying to form despite an expenses row of his own.But here, there is one key difference between the two. Abbott leads a group of MPs that can get rid of him; Harper leads a group of MPs who cannot, as he \u2013 like all Canadian political leaders \u2013 is instead chosen by the party membership. However, coming down the pike is a bill from a backbench Conservative MP that aims, in part, to change that, and return that power to the base. It could prove crucial.\u201cThe most important thing always in politics is to stand for something,\u201d Howard said in March. \u201cAnd once a government looks as though it doesn\u2019t stand for something and has lost its way philosophically, it\u2019s only a matter of time before the public vote it out.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Australian immigration and asylum", "Carbon tax"], "title": "Australia and Canada: a conservative bromance | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2013-12-20T01:07:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was early March, 2013. Former Australian prime minister John Howard took the stage in a cavernous convention hall in Ottawa. \u201cCan I start by saying you have no reason to be concerned about the state of conservatism in this country,\u201d he told the crowd of Canadian conservatives who\u2019d gathered for the Manning Centre\u2019s annual networking conference. \u201cI can\u2019t find a better conservative leader anywhere in the world than [Canadian prime minister] Stephen Harper. I really can\u2019t.\u201d\u00a0One wonders whether Howard would say the same thing now. Not because Harper\u2019s recent domestic scandal\u00a0has called into question the purity of his party\u2019s convictions, the increasing centralisation of power in his office, and his own leadership qualities, but because he now has what many consider an ideological body-double Down Under. But as much as Canada\u2019s Conservative party membership may love to hear how similar they are to their Australian cousins, it might be one key difference that matters most in the long run.Perhaps not since Harper recited one of Howard\u2019s speeches verbatim, without credit, in the House of Commons, have the Canadian and Australian governments been reading so closely from the same page. The two nations were jointly responsible for blocking a Commonwealth initiative to establish a climate fund for poor nations in November; Abbott has, as Harper did, promised to squash asylum seekers landing ashore by boat from Asia; and Abbott\u2019s platform carried the promise of further mandatory minimum sentencing for gun crimes. The Harper government has already implemented the same for some sexual and drug offences.\u00a0So when Abbott\u2019s government killed the Australian carbon tax, it was little surprise that the loudest cheer came from Ottawa. The prime minister\u2019s parliamentary secretary, Paul Calandra, told the House\u00a0that Canada \u201capplauds\u201d the decision, and that Abbott\u2019s move \u201csends an important message.\u201d Which is true for a few reasons.It was important for the Conservative government for purely rhetorical uses. It provided fresh fodder for a tired, farcical\u00a0talking point against Canada\u2019s opposition New Democrats, who the government alleges would implement something similar if ever given power.Also important: it clearly showed the Harper Conservatives have a staunch ideological ally \u2013 finally.The fact that the two parties and leaders are allies isn\u2019t a total shock. The parallels between Abbott and Harper were easily drawn months ago. Both are economists. Both are young. Both were grown into leaders after long-term grassroots participation in conservatism. And just as easily linked are the messaging strategies, borne from continued and very close relationship between the Canadian Conservative and Australian Liberal parties. Abbott\u2019s election night promise of guaranteeing a government \u201cthat is competent, that is trustworthy, and which purposefully and steadfastly and methodically sets about delivering on our commitments,\u201d would sound nice (and familiar) to Harper\u2019s \u201cstrong, stable, national Conservative majority government.\u201d\u00a0And Conservatives will tell you the Liberals have recently turned to Harper and his team for guidance, and found a very welcoming ear. They had to return the favour, after all. Earlier this decade key figures within the Conservative party like strategic planner Patrick Muttart, were studying Australia\u2019s successes \u2013 particularly Howard\u2019s ability to covet the working- and middle-class. They adopted and adapted aspects of it to eventual success. That\u2019s useful for both sides, if only to do what Calandra did and justify each other\u2019s existence and continued power.But maybe most interestingly, Abbott\u2019s decision provides an important message for Canada\u2019s grassroots conservatives, if they want to hear it.\u00a0Harper\u2019s current troubles have come since Conservative senator Mike Duffy was found to have incorrectly billed taxpayers for living and travel expenses and that, to rectify the imbalance, Harper\u2019s then-chief of staff offered to pay it out of his own pocket. The police also allege\u00a0that other member\u2019s of Harper\u2019s inner circle knew of the payment and coached Duffy to instead tell the public a different story. Harper has claimed ignorance of the entire affair, but it has severely damaged his reputation as an incorruptible straight-shooter and a no-nonsense manager \u2013 the kind of image Abbott is also trying to form despite an expenses row of his own.But here, there is one key difference between the two. Abbott leads a group of MPs that can get rid of him; Harper leads a group of MPs who cannot, as he \u2013 like all Canadian political leaders \u2013 is instead chosen by the party membership. However, coming down the pike is a bill from a backbench Conservative MP that aims, in part, to change that, and return that power to the base. It could prove crucial.\u201cThe most important thing always in politics is to stand for something,\u201d Howard said in March. \u201cAnd once a government looks as though it doesn\u2019t stand for something and has lost its way philosophically, it\u2019s only a matter of time before the public vote it out.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Australian immigration and asylum", "Carbon tax"], "title": "Australia and Canada: a conservative bromance | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2013-12-16T17:39:45Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Listen on VimeoIt would appear that 27 year-old Chantal Bellavance \u2013 budding actress, model, self-described 'fashionista sans budget' \u2013 is also a decent singer-songwriter, if her recently released four-track EP J\u2019attends is anything to go by.J\u2019attends hits you with a blast of retro-80\u2032s influenced synthesiser-pop \u2013 four vignettes of bitter-sweet slices of life, love, despondency and disillusionment \u2013 that are nigh on perfect.And then there is Chantal\u2019s crystal-clear voice, which rises and soars, never more so than on Qui \u2013 the EPs standout track \u2013 on which her laser-like vocals cut like a searchlight through the gloom.\u2022 More from Filles Sourires\u2022 East Brunswick All Girls Choir \u2013 Dirty Bird: New music from Australia\u2022 Midimode: New music from Russia", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock"], "title": "Chantal Bellavance: New music from Canada"},{"date": "2013-12-20T01:07:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was early March, 2013. Former Australian prime minister John Howard took the stage in a cavernous convention hall in Ottawa. \u201cCan I start by saying you have no reason to be concerned about the state of conservatism in this country,\u201d he told the crowd of Canadian conservatives who\u2019d gathered for the Manning Centre\u2019s annual networking conference. \u201cI can\u2019t find a better conservative leader anywhere in the world than [Canadian prime minister] Stephen Harper. I really can\u2019t.\u201d\u00a0One wonders whether Howard would say the same thing now. Not because Harper\u2019s recent domestic scandal\u00a0has called into question the purity of his party\u2019s convictions, the increasing centralisation of power in his office, and his own leadership qualities, but because he now has what many consider an ideological body-double Down Under. But as much as Canada\u2019s Conservative party membership may love to hear how similar they are to their Australian cousins, it might be one key difference that matters most in the long run.Perhaps not since Harper recited one of Howard\u2019s speeches verbatim, without credit, in the House of Commons, have the Canadian and Australian governments been reading so closely from the same page. The two nations were jointly responsible for blocking a Commonwealth initiative to establish a climate fund for poor nations in November; Abbott has, as Harper did, promised to squash asylum seekers landing ashore by boat from Asia; and Abbott\u2019s platform carried the promise of further mandatory minimum sentencing for gun crimes. The Harper government has already implemented the same for some sexual and drug offences.\u00a0So when Abbott\u2019s government killed the Australian carbon tax, it was little surprise that the loudest cheer came from Ottawa. The prime minister\u2019s parliamentary secretary, Paul Calandra, told the House\u00a0that Canada \u201capplauds\u201d the decision, and that Abbott\u2019s move \u201csends an important message.\u201d Which is true for a few reasons.It was important for the Conservative government for purely rhetorical uses. It provided fresh fodder for a tired, farcical\u00a0talking point against Canada\u2019s opposition New Democrats, who the government alleges would implement something similar if ever given power.Also important: it clearly showed the Harper Conservatives have a staunch ideological ally \u2013 finally.The fact that the two parties and leaders are allies isn\u2019t a total shock. The parallels between Abbott and Harper were easily drawn months ago. Both are economists. Both are young. Both were grown into leaders after long-term grassroots participation in conservatism. And just as easily linked are the messaging strategies, borne from continued and very close relationship between the Canadian Conservative and Australian Liberal parties. Abbott\u2019s election night promise of guaranteeing a government \u201cthat is competent, that is trustworthy, and which purposefully and steadfastly and methodically sets about delivering on our commitments,\u201d would sound nice (and familiar) to Harper\u2019s \u201cstrong, stable, national Conservative majority government.\u201d\u00a0And Conservatives will tell you the Liberals have recently turned to Harper and his team for guidance, and found a very welcoming ear. They had to return the favour, after all. Earlier this decade key figures within the Conservative party like strategic planner Patrick Muttart, were studying Australia\u2019s successes \u2013 particularly Howard\u2019s ability to covet the working- and middle-class. They adopted and adapted aspects of it to eventual success. That\u2019s useful for both sides, if only to do what Calandra did and justify each other\u2019s existence and continued power.But maybe most interestingly, Abbott\u2019s decision provides an important message for Canada\u2019s grassroots conservatives, if they want to hear it.\u00a0Harper\u2019s current troubles have come since Conservative senator Mike Duffy was found to have incorrectly billed taxpayers for living and travel expenses and that, to rectify the imbalance, Harper\u2019s then-chief of staff offered to pay it out of his own pocket. The police also allege\u00a0that other member\u2019s of Harper\u2019s inner circle knew of the payment and coached Duffy to instead tell the public a different story. Harper has claimed ignorance of the entire affair, but it has severely damaged his reputation as an incorruptible straight-shooter and a no-nonsense manager \u2013 the kind of image Abbott is also trying to form despite an expenses row of his own.But here, there is one key difference between the two. Abbott leads a group of MPs that can get rid of him; Harper leads a group of MPs who cannot, as he \u2013 like all Canadian political leaders \u2013 is instead chosen by the party membership. However, coming down the pike is a bill from a backbench Conservative MP that aims, in part, to change that, and return that power to the base. It could prove crucial.\u201cThe most important thing always in politics is to stand for something,\u201d Howard said in March. \u201cAnd once a government looks as though it doesn\u2019t stand for something and has lost its way philosophically, it\u2019s only a matter of time before the public vote it out.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Australian immigration and asylum", "Carbon tax"], "title": "Australia and Canada: a conservative bromance | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2013-12-16T17:39:45Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Listen on VimeoIt would appear that 27 year-old Chantal Bellavance \u2013 budding actress, model, self-described 'fashionista sans budget' \u2013 is also a decent singer-songwriter, if her recently released four-track EP J\u2019attends is anything to go by.J\u2019attends hits you with a blast of retro-80\u2032s influenced synthesiser-pop \u2013 four vignettes of bitter-sweet slices of life, love, despondency and disillusionment \u2013 that are nigh on perfect.And then there is Chantal\u2019s crystal-clear voice, which rises and soars, never more so than on Qui \u2013 the EPs standout track \u2013 on which her laser-like vocals cut like a searchlight through the gloom.\u2022 More from Filles Sourires\u2022 East Brunswick All Girls Choir \u2013 Dirty Bird: New music from Australia\u2022 Midimode: New music from Russia", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock"], "title": "Chantal Bellavance: New music from Canada"},{"date": "2013-12-13T12:14:17Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Pope Francis might be Time magazine's person of the year, but for Canada, there can be little doubt who our main noisemaker has been. Toronto's mayor, Rob Ford, with his acknowledgments of crack smoking, drunken stupors, driving while under the influence and socialising with drug dealers, has made Canadians cringe in an unexpected way.Consider that Canadians view much of the world through American media, which places us in a very odd, existential state: we experience much of the world from the perspective of a country that barely knows we exist. When Canada does make the news, either as a Simpsons one-liner or a news story about some extreme weather, it sets off a collective frisson \u2013 a brief but thrilling sensation of being acknowledged.Ford's ongoing fame is that much more agonising, given its epic scope. He has become one of the most famous Canadians in the world, attaining the kind of recognition usually only granted to one of our citizens once they have left the country, like William Shatner, Celine Dion or Justin Bieber.But Ford's notoriety, which now includes the opening sketch for Saturday Night Live and a New Yorker cartoon, is horrifying to Canadians for another reason. It's the terror of recognition. Sadly but truly, Ford has become the very personification of what Canada has become.This is difficult news for non-Canadians to digest. After all, many, if not most of you got your impression of Canada through Michael Moore's hugely popular documentaries: we are kind, gentle people who don't lock our doors at night, believe in universal healthcare and gun control and stayed out of the invasion of Iraq.As some critics have pointed out, our prime minister, Stephen Harper, has remained remarkably silent on the Ford debacle. Harper needs the support of much of Ford's pugnacious voter base, many of who remain staunchly loyal despite the snowballing scandals and gaffes. (Last week, in a TV interview that can only be described as ludicrously sycophantic, ex-con Conrad Black spoke to Ford, who insinuated that a reporter covering his story might be a paedophile. The reporter has served him with a libel notice.) While different in their public demeanour, Harper and Ford are flip sides of the same hard-right coin.And that makes the image of Ford all the more unsettling. What was once Canada the cool, the country a 1991 Economist cover story called the \"post-modern nation-state\", has now devolved into a rightwing hellhole. Ford was elected in 2010, one year prior to Canada's Conservative party winning a majority in the national parliament. Since then, Harper, a man who once referred to global warming as \"a socialist conspiracy\", has pushed Canada's policies sharply to the right.Canada now has tough-on-crime legislation that includes strict minimum sentences \u2013 enacted despite the advice of some American Republican lawmakers, who pointed out that similar legislation south of the border has been expensive and ineffectual. Harper moved to dismantle the long-gun registry, which was brought in after a brutal 1989 mass shooting left 14 women dead at the hands of a deranged gunman. The registry was ended despite the pleas of victims-rights groups and police officers, who almost unanimously supported it.But Canada's ideological reversal of fortune is perhaps most devastating when one considers environmental issues. Under the previous Liberal government, Canada had been one of the key architects of the Kyoto protocol; Harper's Conservatives officially withdrew Canada from the protocol, and instead are championing Alberta's tar sands, a development many predict will have a catastrophic impact. In an announcement in November that was eclipsed by the Ford soap opera, the Washington, DC-based Center for Global Development ranked 27 countries in terms of their commitment to environmental protection. Canada came in 27th.Adding to Canada's woes is the recent proposed legislation in Quebec \u2013 usually the most progressive province in the country \u2013 that would ban turbans, kippas and hijabs from being worn by government workers. Quebec politicians insist the Values Charter, as it has come to be known, will unify citizens by enforcing secularism. But racial and religious minorities see the move as discriminatory and divisive.Making this a bone-deep trauma is the fact that Harper's Conservatives won their majority with only 39% of the popular vote. The votes between our moderate party (the Liberals) and leftwing party (New Democrats) meant that the sanity vote was divided. It could be likened to the American presidential election of 2000, when Bush managed to win via the electoral college system, despite the fact that Gore won the popular vote.Each time Ford appears in the media, it's another eerie reminder of what we've become: crude, swaggering, bungling, irrational and mendacious. We've reached that staggering moment in a brilliant horror film when our protagonist realises the truth: Rob Ford is the New Canada. He is us.", "tags": ["Canada", "Rob Ford", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Sadly, Rob Ford epitomises what Canada has become | Matthew Hays"},{"date": "2013-12-20T01:07:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was early March, 2013. Former Australian prime minister John Howard took the stage in a cavernous convention hall in Ottawa. \u201cCan I start by saying you have no reason to be concerned about the state of conservatism in this country,\u201d he told the crowd of Canadian conservatives who\u2019d gathered for the Manning Centre\u2019s annual networking conference. \u201cI can\u2019t find a better conservative leader anywhere in the world than [Canadian prime minister] Stephen Harper. I really can\u2019t.\u201d\u00a0One wonders whether Howard would say the same thing now. Not because Harper\u2019s recent domestic scandal\u00a0has called into question the purity of his party\u2019s convictions, the increasing centralisation of power in his office, and his own leadership qualities, but because he now has what many consider an ideological body-double Down Under. But as much as Canada\u2019s Conservative party membership may love to hear how similar they are to their Australian cousins, it might be one key difference that matters most in the long run.Perhaps not since Harper recited one of Howard\u2019s speeches verbatim, without credit, in the House of Commons, have the Canadian and Australian governments been reading so closely from the same page. The two nations were jointly responsible for blocking a Commonwealth initiative to establish a climate fund for poor nations in November; Abbott has, as Harper did, promised to squash asylum seekers landing ashore by boat from Asia; and Abbott\u2019s platform carried the promise of further mandatory minimum sentencing for gun crimes. The Harper government has already implemented the same for some sexual and drug offences.\u00a0So when Abbott\u2019s government killed the Australian carbon tax, it was little surprise that the loudest cheer came from Ottawa. The prime minister\u2019s parliamentary secretary, Paul Calandra, told the House\u00a0that Canada \u201capplauds\u201d the decision, and that Abbott\u2019s move \u201csends an important message.\u201d Which is true for a few reasons.It was important for the Conservative government for purely rhetorical uses. It provided fresh fodder for a tired, farcical\u00a0talking point against Canada\u2019s opposition New Democrats, who the government alleges would implement something similar if ever given power.Also important: it clearly showed the Harper Conservatives have a staunch ideological ally \u2013 finally.The fact that the two parties and leaders are allies isn\u2019t a total shock. The parallels between Abbott and Harper were easily drawn months ago. Both are economists. Both are young. Both were grown into leaders after long-term grassroots participation in conservatism. And just as easily linked are the messaging strategies, borne from continued and very close relationship between the Canadian Conservative and Australian Liberal parties. Abbott\u2019s election night promise of guaranteeing a government \u201cthat is competent, that is trustworthy, and which purposefully and steadfastly and methodically sets about delivering on our commitments,\u201d would sound nice (and familiar) to Harper\u2019s \u201cstrong, stable, national Conservative majority government.\u201d\u00a0And Conservatives will tell you the Liberals have recently turned to Harper and his team for guidance, and found a very welcoming ear. They had to return the favour, after all. Earlier this decade key figures within the Conservative party like strategic planner Patrick Muttart, were studying Australia\u2019s successes \u2013 particularly Howard\u2019s ability to covet the working- and middle-class. They adopted and adapted aspects of it to eventual success. That\u2019s useful for both sides, if only to do what Calandra did and justify each other\u2019s existence and continued power.But maybe most interestingly, Abbott\u2019s decision provides an important message for Canada\u2019s grassroots conservatives, if they want to hear it.\u00a0Harper\u2019s current troubles have come since Conservative senator Mike Duffy was found to have incorrectly billed taxpayers for living and travel expenses and that, to rectify the imbalance, Harper\u2019s then-chief of staff offered to pay it out of his own pocket. The police also allege\u00a0that other member\u2019s of Harper\u2019s inner circle knew of the payment and coached Duffy to instead tell the public a different story. Harper has claimed ignorance of the entire affair, but it has severely damaged his reputation as an incorruptible straight-shooter and a no-nonsense manager \u2013 the kind of image Abbott is also trying to form despite an expenses row of his own.But here, there is one key difference between the two. Abbott leads a group of MPs that can get rid of him; Harper leads a group of MPs who cannot, as he \u2013 like all Canadian political leaders \u2013 is instead chosen by the party membership. However, coming down the pike is a bill from a backbench Conservative MP that aims, in part, to change that, and return that power to the base. It could prove crucial.\u201cThe most important thing always in politics is to stand for something,\u201d Howard said in March. \u201cAnd once a government looks as though it doesn\u2019t stand for something and has lost its way philosophically, it\u2019s only a matter of time before the public vote it out.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Australian immigration and asylum", "Carbon tax"], "title": "Australia and Canada: a conservative bromance | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2013-12-16T17:39:45Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Listen on VimeoIt would appear that 27 year-old Chantal Bellavance \u2013 budding actress, model, self-described 'fashionista sans budget' \u2013 is also a decent singer-songwriter, if her recently released four-track EP J\u2019attends is anything to go by.J\u2019attends hits you with a blast of retro-80\u2032s influenced synthesiser-pop \u2013 four vignettes of bitter-sweet slices of life, love, despondency and disillusionment \u2013 that are nigh on perfect.And then there is Chantal\u2019s crystal-clear voice, which rises and soars, never more so than on Qui \u2013 the EPs standout track \u2013 on which her laser-like vocals cut like a searchlight through the gloom.\u2022 More from Filles Sourires\u2022 East Brunswick All Girls Choir \u2013 Dirty Bird: New music from Australia\u2022 Midimode: New music from Russia", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock"], "title": "Chantal Bellavance: New music from Canada"},{"date": "2013-12-13T12:14:17Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Pope Francis might be Time magazine's person of the year, but for Canada, there can be little doubt who our main noisemaker has been. Toronto's mayor, Rob Ford, with his acknowledgments of crack smoking, drunken stupors, driving while under the influence and socialising with drug dealers, has made Canadians cringe in an unexpected way.Consider that Canadians view much of the world through American media, which places us in a very odd, existential state: we experience much of the world from the perspective of a country that barely knows we exist. When Canada does make the news, either as a Simpsons one-liner or a news story about some extreme weather, it sets off a collective frisson \u2013 a brief but thrilling sensation of being acknowledged.Ford's ongoing fame is that much more agonising, given its epic scope. He has become one of the most famous Canadians in the world, attaining the kind of recognition usually only granted to one of our citizens once they have left the country, like William Shatner, Celine Dion or Justin Bieber.But Ford's notoriety, which now includes the opening sketch for Saturday Night Live and a New Yorker cartoon, is horrifying to Canadians for another reason. It's the terror of recognition. Sadly but truly, Ford has become the very personification of what Canada has become.This is difficult news for non-Canadians to digest. After all, many, if not most of you got your impression of Canada through Michael Moore's hugely popular documentaries: we are kind, gentle people who don't lock our doors at night, believe in universal healthcare and gun control and stayed out of the invasion of Iraq.As some critics have pointed out, our prime minister, Stephen Harper, has remained remarkably silent on the Ford debacle. Harper needs the support of much of Ford's pugnacious voter base, many of who remain staunchly loyal despite the snowballing scandals and gaffes. (Last week, in a TV interview that can only be described as ludicrously sycophantic, ex-con Conrad Black spoke to Ford, who insinuated that a reporter covering his story might be a paedophile. The reporter has served him with a libel notice.) While different in their public demeanour, Harper and Ford are flip sides of the same hard-right coin.And that makes the image of Ford all the more unsettling. What was once Canada the cool, the country a 1991 Economist cover story called the \"post-modern nation-state\", has now devolved into a rightwing hellhole. Ford was elected in 2010, one year prior to Canada's Conservative party winning a majority in the national parliament. Since then, Harper, a man who once referred to global warming as \"a socialist conspiracy\", has pushed Canada's policies sharply to the right.Canada now has tough-on-crime legislation that includes strict minimum sentences \u2013 enacted despite the advice of some American Republican lawmakers, who pointed out that similar legislation south of the border has been expensive and ineffectual. Harper moved to dismantle the long-gun registry, which was brought in after a brutal 1989 mass shooting left 14 women dead at the hands of a deranged gunman. The registry was ended despite the pleas of victims-rights groups and police officers, who almost unanimously supported it.But Canada's ideological reversal of fortune is perhaps most devastating when one considers environmental issues. Under the previous Liberal government, Canada had been one of the key architects of the Kyoto protocol; Harper's Conservatives officially withdrew Canada from the protocol, and instead are championing Alberta's tar sands, a development many predict will have a catastrophic impact. In an announcement in November that was eclipsed by the Ford soap opera, the Washington, DC-based Center for Global Development ranked 27 countries in terms of their commitment to environmental protection. Canada came in 27th.Adding to Canada's woes is the recent proposed legislation in Quebec \u2013 usually the most progressive province in the country \u2013 that would ban turbans, kippas and hijabs from being worn by government workers. Quebec politicians insist the Values Charter, as it has come to be known, will unify citizens by enforcing secularism. But racial and religious minorities see the move as discriminatory and divisive.Making this a bone-deep trauma is the fact that Harper's Conservatives won their majority with only 39% of the popular vote. The votes between our moderate party (the Liberals) and leftwing party (New Democrats) meant that the sanity vote was divided. It could be likened to the American presidential election of 2000, when Bush managed to win via the electoral college system, despite the fact that Gore won the popular vote.Each time Ford appears in the media, it's another eerie reminder of what we've become: crude, swaggering, bungling, irrational and mendacious. We've reached that staggering moment in a brilliant horror film when our protagonist realises the truth: Rob Ford is the New Canada. He is us.", "tags": ["Canada", "Rob Ford", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Sadly, Rob Ford epitomises what Canada has become | Matthew Hays"},{"date": "2013-11-28T14:21:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": " 2.21pm GMT The Commons home affairs select committee has published some details of the session on Tuesday 3 December at which the Guardian's editor, Alan Rusbridger, will be questioned about the paper's Snowden revelations.\u00a0The session, billed as a \"counter-terrorism evidence session\", will begin at 3pm.3pm:\u00a0Alan Rusbridger, editor, the Guardian 4pm: Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, Metropolitan police commissioner, and Cressida Dick, assistant commissioner, Metropolitan policeI'll live blog the whole session here.  12.41pm GMT He added:I never said that all the documents in my possession that haven\u2019t yet been published are ones that shouldn\u2019t be published. In fact there\u2019s a lot more reporting that I intend to do that other media outlets intend to do in publishing these documents. There are a lot of these documents that are extremely newsworthy.How much more is to come?I haven\u2019t counted. I don\u2019t have an exact count. But I can tell you that, if I had to guess, we are still in the first part, the first half of the reporting. The majority of reporting on these documents for sure is reporting that has yet to be done but that will be done. 12.34pm GMT Greenwald was also asked who currently had Snowden\u2019s published and unpublished documents.Myself, Laura Poitras, the New York Times has a large number of documents, the Guardian has a large number of documents, and the Washington Post does as well. So basically the world\u2019s largest and most respected western newspapers are in possession of a large number of these documents in addition to myself and Laura Poitras \u2026 Myself and Laura Poitras have the full set of documents and others have portions of them. 12.29pm GMT Former Guardian journalist Glenn Greenwald, one of the key reporters of the Snowden revelations, appeared on BBC World News\u2019s Hardtalk yesterday.In the interview Greenwald explained why he felt the NSA\u2019s surveillance of metadata \u2013 who spoke to whom, and when, rather than what was said \u2013 was intrusive \u2013 in some cases more intrusive than the content of the calls itself.Think about for example if your daughter decides that she wants to get an abortion, or your best friend has HIV and wants to consult a doctor. If someone is listening to their telephone calls that they make, they will only hear those people calling and making an appointment with some doctor whose specialty they won\u2019t probably even know.But if they collect that person\u2019s metadata they will see that that woman has called an abortion clinic, or that friend has called a doctor specialising in HIV treatment, or that someone has called a suicide hotline or a drug addiction clinic. 11.37am GMT Welcome to our hub for all Edward Snowden, NSA and GCHQ-related developments around the world. As arguments rage over how much of our day to day life should be monitored in the name of security, we'll be tracking the growing global debate about privacy in the digital age. We'd like to know what you think about the whole NSA story, what you're worried about \u2013 and any new areas you'd like to read more about.Good morning. Here are the headlines:\u2022\u00a0Canada allowed the NSA to conduct widespread surveillance during the 2010 G8 and G20 summits, according to a Canadian Broadcasting Corporation report citing documents from former NSA contractor Edward Snowden. It was already known that the 2009 London G20 meetings were monitored, on that occasion by Britain\u2019s GCHQ.CBC reports, in a story co-written by former Guardian journalist Glenn Greenwald:Top secret documents retrieved by U.S. whistleblower Edward Snowden show that Prime Minister Stephen Harper's government allowed the largest American spy agency to conduct widespread surveillance in Canada during the 2010 G8 and G20 summits.The documents are being reported exclusively by CBC News.The briefing notes, stamped \"Top Secret,\" show the U.S. turned its Ottawa embassy into a security command post during a six-day spying operation by the National Security Agency while U.S. President Barack Obama and 25 other foreign heads of state were on Canadian soil in June of 2010.The covert U.S. operation was no secret to Canadian authorities.An NSA briefing note describes the American agency's operational plans at the Toronto summit meeting and notes they were \"closely co-ordinated with the Canadian partner.\"\u2022 The Indonesian foreign minister, Marty Natalegawa, has signalled that the rebuilding of relations between Australia and Indonesia in the wake of the phone-tapping revelations is only at \u201cstep one\u201d in a long process he hopes will result in the signing of a binding code of ethics between the two nations, report Oliver Laughland in Sydney and Karima Anjani in Jakarta.Speaking to reporters at a special parliamentary hearing in Jakarta over the phone-tapping revelations, Natalegawa confirmed he would contact the Australian foreign minister, Julie Bishop, following the president\u2019s call for a new deal between the two countries to be forged in six steps.Last Monday, Guardian Australia and the Australian Broadcasting Corporation revealed that Australian spy agencies had targeted the personal mobile phones of Yudhoyono, his wife and eight other senior ministers in 2009.I\u2019ll have live coverage of all developments here throughout the day.Updated at 9.45am GMT", "tags": ["The NSA files", "NSA", "World news", "US news", "UK news", "GCHQ", "Australia news", "Canada", "Indonesia", "US national security", "Edward Snowden", "Prism", "Surveillance", "Espionage", "UK security and counter-terrorism", "Counter-terrorism policy", "Media", "The Guardian", "Newspapers", "Press freedom"], "title": "Canada 'allowed NSA to spy on G8 and G20 summits'"},{"date": "2013-12-20T01:07:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was early March, 2013. Former Australian prime minister John Howard took the stage in a cavernous convention hall in Ottawa. \u201cCan I start by saying you have no reason to be concerned about the state of conservatism in this country,\u201d he told the crowd of Canadian conservatives who\u2019d gathered for the Manning Centre\u2019s annual networking conference. \u201cI can\u2019t find a better conservative leader anywhere in the world than [Canadian prime minister] Stephen Harper. I really can\u2019t.\u201d\u00a0One wonders whether Howard would say the same thing now. Not because Harper\u2019s recent domestic scandal\u00a0has called into question the purity of his party\u2019s convictions, the increasing centralisation of power in his office, and his own leadership qualities, but because he now has what many consider an ideological body-double Down Under. But as much as Canada\u2019s Conservative party membership may love to hear how similar they are to their Australian cousins, it might be one key difference that matters most in the long run.Perhaps not since Harper recited one of Howard\u2019s speeches verbatim, without credit, in the House of Commons, have the Canadian and Australian governments been reading so closely from the same page. The two nations were jointly responsible for blocking a Commonwealth initiative to establish a climate fund for poor nations in November; Abbott has, as Harper did, promised to squash asylum seekers landing ashore by boat from Asia; and Abbott\u2019s platform carried the promise of further mandatory minimum sentencing for gun crimes. The Harper government has already implemented the same for some sexual and drug offences.\u00a0So when Abbott\u2019s government killed the Australian carbon tax, it was little surprise that the loudest cheer came from Ottawa. The prime minister\u2019s parliamentary secretary, Paul Calandra, told the House\u00a0that Canada \u201capplauds\u201d the decision, and that Abbott\u2019s move \u201csends an important message.\u201d Which is true for a few reasons.It was important for the Conservative government for purely rhetorical uses. It provided fresh fodder for a tired, farcical\u00a0talking point against Canada\u2019s opposition New Democrats, who the government alleges would implement something similar if ever given power.Also important: it clearly showed the Harper Conservatives have a staunch ideological ally \u2013 finally.The fact that the two parties and leaders are allies isn\u2019t a total shock. The parallels between Abbott and Harper were easily drawn months ago. Both are economists. Both are young. Both were grown into leaders after long-term grassroots participation in conservatism. And just as easily linked are the messaging strategies, borne from continued and very close relationship between the Canadian Conservative and Australian Liberal parties. Abbott\u2019s election night promise of guaranteeing a government \u201cthat is competent, that is trustworthy, and which purposefully and steadfastly and methodically sets about delivering on our commitments,\u201d would sound nice (and familiar) to Harper\u2019s \u201cstrong, stable, national Conservative majority government.\u201d\u00a0And Conservatives will tell you the Liberals have recently turned to Harper and his team for guidance, and found a very welcoming ear. They had to return the favour, after all. Earlier this decade key figures within the Conservative party like strategic planner Patrick Muttart, were studying Australia\u2019s successes \u2013 particularly Howard\u2019s ability to covet the working- and middle-class. They adopted and adapted aspects of it to eventual success. That\u2019s useful for both sides, if only to do what Calandra did and justify each other\u2019s existence and continued power.But maybe most interestingly, Abbott\u2019s decision provides an important message for Canada\u2019s grassroots conservatives, if they want to hear it.\u00a0Harper\u2019s current troubles have come since Conservative senator Mike Duffy was found to have incorrectly billed taxpayers for living and travel expenses and that, to rectify the imbalance, Harper\u2019s then-chief of staff offered to pay it out of his own pocket. The police also allege\u00a0that other member\u2019s of Harper\u2019s inner circle knew of the payment and coached Duffy to instead tell the public a different story. Harper has claimed ignorance of the entire affair, but it has severely damaged his reputation as an incorruptible straight-shooter and a no-nonsense manager \u2013 the kind of image Abbott is also trying to form despite an expenses row of his own.But here, there is one key difference between the two. Abbott leads a group of MPs that can get rid of him; Harper leads a group of MPs who cannot, as he \u2013 like all Canadian political leaders \u2013 is instead chosen by the party membership. However, coming down the pike is a bill from a backbench Conservative MP that aims, in part, to change that, and return that power to the base. It could prove crucial.\u201cThe most important thing always in politics is to stand for something,\u201d Howard said in March. \u201cAnd once a government looks as though it doesn\u2019t stand for something and has lost its way philosophically, it\u2019s only a matter of time before the public vote it out.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Australian immigration and asylum", "Carbon tax"], "title": "Australia and Canada: a conservative bromance | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2013-12-16T17:39:45Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Listen on VimeoIt would appear that 27 year-old Chantal Bellavance \u2013 budding actress, model, self-described 'fashionista sans budget' \u2013 is also a decent singer-songwriter, if her recently released four-track EP J\u2019attends is anything to go by.J\u2019attends hits you with a blast of retro-80\u2032s influenced synthesiser-pop \u2013 four vignettes of bitter-sweet slices of life, love, despondency and disillusionment \u2013 that are nigh on perfect.And then there is Chantal\u2019s crystal-clear voice, which rises and soars, never more so than on Qui \u2013 the EPs standout track \u2013 on which her laser-like vocals cut like a searchlight through the gloom.\u2022 More from Filles Sourires\u2022 East Brunswick All Girls Choir \u2013 Dirty Bird: New music from Australia\u2022 Midimode: New music from Russia", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock"], "title": "Chantal Bellavance: New music from Canada"},{"date": "2013-12-13T12:14:17Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Pope Francis might be Time magazine's person of the year, but for Canada, there can be little doubt who our main noisemaker has been. Toronto's mayor, Rob Ford, with his acknowledgments of crack smoking, drunken stupors, driving while under the influence and socialising with drug dealers, has made Canadians cringe in an unexpected way.Consider that Canadians view much of the world through American media, which places us in a very odd, existential state: we experience much of the world from the perspective of a country that barely knows we exist. When Canada does make the news, either as a Simpsons one-liner or a news story about some extreme weather, it sets off a collective frisson \u2013 a brief but thrilling sensation of being acknowledged.Ford's ongoing fame is that much more agonising, given its epic scope. He has become one of the most famous Canadians in the world, attaining the kind of recognition usually only granted to one of our citizens once they have left the country, like William Shatner, Celine Dion or Justin Bieber.But Ford's notoriety, which now includes the opening sketch for Saturday Night Live and a New Yorker cartoon, is horrifying to Canadians for another reason. It's the terror of recognition. Sadly but truly, Ford has become the very personification of what Canada has become.This is difficult news for non-Canadians to digest. After all, many, if not most of you got your impression of Canada through Michael Moore's hugely popular documentaries: we are kind, gentle people who don't lock our doors at night, believe in universal healthcare and gun control and stayed out of the invasion of Iraq.As some critics have pointed out, our prime minister, Stephen Harper, has remained remarkably silent on the Ford debacle. Harper needs the support of much of Ford's pugnacious voter base, many of who remain staunchly loyal despite the snowballing scandals and gaffes. (Last week, in a TV interview that can only be described as ludicrously sycophantic, ex-con Conrad Black spoke to Ford, who insinuated that a reporter covering his story might be a paedophile. The reporter has served him with a libel notice.) While different in their public demeanour, Harper and Ford are flip sides of the same hard-right coin.And that makes the image of Ford all the more unsettling. What was once Canada the cool, the country a 1991 Economist cover story called the \"post-modern nation-state\", has now devolved into a rightwing hellhole. Ford was elected in 2010, one year prior to Canada's Conservative party winning a majority in the national parliament. Since then, Harper, a man who once referred to global warming as \"a socialist conspiracy\", has pushed Canada's policies sharply to the right.Canada now has tough-on-crime legislation that includes strict minimum sentences \u2013 enacted despite the advice of some American Republican lawmakers, who pointed out that similar legislation south of the border has been expensive and ineffectual. Harper moved to dismantle the long-gun registry, which was brought in after a brutal 1989 mass shooting left 14 women dead at the hands of a deranged gunman. The registry was ended despite the pleas of victims-rights groups and police officers, who almost unanimously supported it.But Canada's ideological reversal of fortune is perhaps most devastating when one considers environmental issues. Under the previous Liberal government, Canada had been one of the key architects of the Kyoto protocol; Harper's Conservatives officially withdrew Canada from the protocol, and instead are championing Alberta's tar sands, a development many predict will have a catastrophic impact. In an announcement in November that was eclipsed by the Ford soap opera, the Washington, DC-based Center for Global Development ranked 27 countries in terms of their commitment to environmental protection. Canada came in 27th.Adding to Canada's woes is the recent proposed legislation in Quebec \u2013 usually the most progressive province in the country \u2013 that would ban turbans, kippas and hijabs from being worn by government workers. Quebec politicians insist the Values Charter, as it has come to be known, will unify citizens by enforcing secularism. But racial and religious minorities see the move as discriminatory and divisive.Making this a bone-deep trauma is the fact that Harper's Conservatives won their majority with only 39% of the popular vote. The votes between our moderate party (the Liberals) and leftwing party (New Democrats) meant that the sanity vote was divided. It could be likened to the American presidential election of 2000, when Bush managed to win via the electoral college system, despite the fact that Gore won the popular vote.Each time Ford appears in the media, it's another eerie reminder of what we've become: crude, swaggering, bungling, irrational and mendacious. We've reached that staggering moment in a brilliant horror film when our protagonist realises the truth: Rob Ford is the New Canada. He is us.", "tags": ["Canada", "Rob Ford", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Sadly, Rob Ford epitomises what Canada has become | Matthew Hays"},{"date": "2013-11-28T14:21:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": " 2.21pm GMT The Commons home affairs select committee has published some details of the session on Tuesday 3 December at which the Guardian's editor, Alan Rusbridger, will be questioned about the paper's Snowden revelations.\u00a0The session, billed as a \"counter-terrorism evidence session\", will begin at 3pm.3pm:\u00a0Alan Rusbridger, editor, the Guardian 4pm: Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, Metropolitan police commissioner, and Cressida Dick, assistant commissioner, Metropolitan policeI'll live blog the whole session here.  12.41pm GMT He added:I never said that all the documents in my possession that haven\u2019t yet been published are ones that shouldn\u2019t be published. In fact there\u2019s a lot more reporting that I intend to do that other media outlets intend to do in publishing these documents. There are a lot of these documents that are extremely newsworthy.How much more is to come?I haven\u2019t counted. I don\u2019t have an exact count. But I can tell you that, if I had to guess, we are still in the first part, the first half of the reporting. The majority of reporting on these documents for sure is reporting that has yet to be done but that will be done. 12.34pm GMT Greenwald was also asked who currently had Snowden\u2019s published and unpublished documents.Myself, Laura Poitras, the New York Times has a large number of documents, the Guardian has a large number of documents, and the Washington Post does as well. So basically the world\u2019s largest and most respected western newspapers are in possession of a large number of these documents in addition to myself and Laura Poitras \u2026 Myself and Laura Poitras have the full set of documents and others have portions of them. 12.29pm GMT Former Guardian journalist Glenn Greenwald, one of the key reporters of the Snowden revelations, appeared on BBC World News\u2019s Hardtalk yesterday.In the interview Greenwald explained why he felt the NSA\u2019s surveillance of metadata \u2013 who spoke to whom, and when, rather than what was said \u2013 was intrusive \u2013 in some cases more intrusive than the content of the calls itself.Think about for example if your daughter decides that she wants to get an abortion, or your best friend has HIV and wants to consult a doctor. If someone is listening to their telephone calls that they make, they will only hear those people calling and making an appointment with some doctor whose specialty they won\u2019t probably even know.But if they collect that person\u2019s metadata they will see that that woman has called an abortion clinic, or that friend has called a doctor specialising in HIV treatment, or that someone has called a suicide hotline or a drug addiction clinic. 11.37am GMT Welcome to our hub for all Edward Snowden, NSA and GCHQ-related developments around the world. As arguments rage over how much of our day to day life should be monitored in the name of security, we'll be tracking the growing global debate about privacy in the digital age. We'd like to know what you think about the whole NSA story, what you're worried about \u2013 and any new areas you'd like to read more about.Good morning. Here are the headlines:\u2022\u00a0Canada allowed the NSA to conduct widespread surveillance during the 2010 G8 and G20 summits, according to a Canadian Broadcasting Corporation report citing documents from former NSA contractor Edward Snowden. It was already known that the 2009 London G20 meetings were monitored, on that occasion by Britain\u2019s GCHQ.CBC reports, in a story co-written by former Guardian journalist Glenn Greenwald:Top secret documents retrieved by U.S. whistleblower Edward Snowden show that Prime Minister Stephen Harper's government allowed the largest American spy agency to conduct widespread surveillance in Canada during the 2010 G8 and G20 summits.The documents are being reported exclusively by CBC News.The briefing notes, stamped \"Top Secret,\" show the U.S. turned its Ottawa embassy into a security command post during a six-day spying operation by the National Security Agency while U.S. President Barack Obama and 25 other foreign heads of state were on Canadian soil in June of 2010.The covert U.S. operation was no secret to Canadian authorities.An NSA briefing note describes the American agency's operational plans at the Toronto summit meeting and notes they were \"closely co-ordinated with the Canadian partner.\"\u2022 The Indonesian foreign minister, Marty Natalegawa, has signalled that the rebuilding of relations between Australia and Indonesia in the wake of the phone-tapping revelations is only at \u201cstep one\u201d in a long process he hopes will result in the signing of a binding code of ethics between the two nations, report Oliver Laughland in Sydney and Karima Anjani in Jakarta.Speaking to reporters at a special parliamentary hearing in Jakarta over the phone-tapping revelations, Natalegawa confirmed he would contact the Australian foreign minister, Julie Bishop, following the president\u2019s call for a new deal between the two countries to be forged in six steps.Last Monday, Guardian Australia and the Australian Broadcasting Corporation revealed that Australian spy agencies had targeted the personal mobile phones of Yudhoyono, his wife and eight other senior ministers in 2009.I\u2019ll have live coverage of all developments here throughout the day.Updated at 9.45am GMT", "tags": ["The NSA files", "NSA", "World news", "US news", "UK news", "GCHQ", "Australia news", "Canada", "Indonesia", "US national security", "Edward Snowden", "Prism", "Surveillance", "Espionage", "UK security and counter-terrorism", "Counter-terrorism policy", "Media", "The Guardian", "Newspapers", "Press freedom"], "title": "Canada 'allowed NSA to spy on G8 and G20 summits'"},{"date": "2013-11-25T20:43:55Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has given the go-ahead to commercial production of genetically modified salmon eggs, bringing the world's first GM food animal closer to supermarkets and dinner tables.In a decision buried in routine business in the Canada Gazette, Environment Canada said it had granted a US biotechnology firm, AquaBounty Technologies Inc, permission to export up to 100,000 GM fish eggs a year from a hatchery in Prince Edward Island to a site high in the Panamanian rainforest.\u00a0The decision marked the first time any government had given the go-ahead to commercial scale production involving a GM food animal.The move clears the way for AquaBounty to scale up production of the salmon at its sites in PEI and Panama in anticipation of eventual approval by American authorities.The Food and Drug Administration is expected to render a decision in the near future on the sale of GM salmon, and in due course some 30 other species of GM fish currently under development, campaigners and industry figures said.The Canadian government said in its decision that the GM fish presented a high risk to Atlantic salmon, in the event of an escape, and a spokesman was adamant there would be no immediate sale or consumption of GM salmon eggs in Canada.\u201cThere are strict measures in place to prevent the release of this fish into the food chain,\u201d an Environment Canada spokesman said by email. \u201cIn Canada, no genetically modified fish or eggs are currently approved for the purposes of human consumption.\u201dBut the limited approval still represents a big win for AquaBounty which has fought for 20 years to bring GM salmon to American dinner tables.\u201cThis is a significant milestone in our efforts to make AquAdvantage\u00ae salmon available for commercial production,\u201d Ron Stotish, the company's chief executive, said in a statement.AquaBounty\u00a0has been raising GM salmon for several years on an experimental basis, growing fish eggs at a lab in PEI and then flying them to a ramshackle test site at a secretive inland location in the Panamanian rainforest, where they were grown to full size, and then ultimately destroyed.The GM fish splices growth genes\u00a0from a Chinook salmon and a seal eel onto an Atlantic salmon \u2013 which AquaBounty claims enables the altered animal to grow twice as fast as a regular fish.Lucy Sharratt of the Canadian Biotechnology Action Network said last week's decision made it easier for the FDA to contemplate approval, so clearing a potential obstacle in AquaBounty moving towards full-scale commercial production.\u201cThis is one concrete step closer to the reality of GM fish on our plates, and unfortunately it is a really dramatic step,\u201d she said. \u201cIt's a global first, and it has a significant global potential impact for our environment. It starts a chain of decisions that could be just disastrous for our aquatic ecosystems.\u201dThe move by the Canadian authorities follows a run of setbacks for AquaBounty \u2013 and growing scrutiny of its operations from campaign groups.An environmental group in Panama last week wrote to the authorities with concerns that the AquaBounty site was operating without the necessary permits and inspections.The Panamanian test site has had a history of mishaps. In 2008, a storm destroyed part of the facility, according to a filing to the FDA. In 2010, an entire batch of fingerlings died in transit, according to Panamanian officials.All the while, AquaBounty fought to navigate the US regulatory process and to stay afloat. The company has run through more than $60m waiting for approval.The company has also fought to win over the public to the idea of GM fish. Within the last year, supermarket chains such as Whole Foods and Trader Joes, have said they will not stock GM salmon.AquaBounty must still win approval to raise the fish on commercial scale from the authorities in Panama \u2013 and the site so far consists of just a few tanks at the end of an unpaved road.The company will also have to apply anew to the Canadian government if it wants to raise the fish commercially at any other site.\u00a0AquaBounty must still obtain approval from the FDA before it can begin to try to bring the fish to market in America.But Stotish said in the statement the company planned to go into commercial production once those other approvals are in place.", "tags": ["GM", "Canada", "Panama", "World news", "Food & drink industry", "Environment", "US news", "Fish"], "title": "Canada approves production of GM salmon eggs on commercial scale"},{"date": "2013-12-20T01:07:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was early March, 2013. Former Australian prime minister John Howard took the stage in a cavernous convention hall in Ottawa. \u201cCan I start by saying you have no reason to be concerned about the state of conservatism in this country,\u201d he told the crowd of Canadian conservatives who\u2019d gathered for the Manning Centre\u2019s annual networking conference. \u201cI can\u2019t find a better conservative leader anywhere in the world than [Canadian prime minister] Stephen Harper. I really can\u2019t.\u201d\u00a0One wonders whether Howard would say the same thing now. Not because Harper\u2019s recent domestic scandal\u00a0has called into question the purity of his party\u2019s convictions, the increasing centralisation of power in his office, and his own leadership qualities, but because he now has what many consider an ideological body-double Down Under. But as much as Canada\u2019s Conservative party membership may love to hear how similar they are to their Australian cousins, it might be one key difference that matters most in the long run.Perhaps not since Harper recited one of Howard\u2019s speeches verbatim, without credit, in the House of Commons, have the Canadian and Australian governments been reading so closely from the same page. The two nations were jointly responsible for blocking a Commonwealth initiative to establish a climate fund for poor nations in November; Abbott has, as Harper did, promised to squash asylum seekers landing ashore by boat from Asia; and Abbott\u2019s platform carried the promise of further mandatory minimum sentencing for gun crimes. The Harper government has already implemented the same for some sexual and drug offences.\u00a0So when Abbott\u2019s government killed the Australian carbon tax, it was little surprise that the loudest cheer came from Ottawa. The prime minister\u2019s parliamentary secretary, Paul Calandra, told the House\u00a0that Canada \u201capplauds\u201d the decision, and that Abbott\u2019s move \u201csends an important message.\u201d Which is true for a few reasons.It was important for the Conservative government for purely rhetorical uses. It provided fresh fodder for a tired, farcical\u00a0talking point against Canada\u2019s opposition New Democrats, who the government alleges would implement something similar if ever given power.Also important: it clearly showed the Harper Conservatives have a staunch ideological ally \u2013 finally.The fact that the two parties and leaders are allies isn\u2019t a total shock. The parallels between Abbott and Harper were easily drawn months ago. Both are economists. Both are young. Both were grown into leaders after long-term grassroots participation in conservatism. And just as easily linked are the messaging strategies, borne from continued and very close relationship between the Canadian Conservative and Australian Liberal parties. Abbott\u2019s election night promise of guaranteeing a government \u201cthat is competent, that is trustworthy, and which purposefully and steadfastly and methodically sets about delivering on our commitments,\u201d would sound nice (and familiar) to Harper\u2019s \u201cstrong, stable, national Conservative majority government.\u201d\u00a0And Conservatives will tell you the Liberals have recently turned to Harper and his team for guidance, and found a very welcoming ear. They had to return the favour, after all. Earlier this decade key figures within the Conservative party like strategic planner Patrick Muttart, were studying Australia\u2019s successes \u2013 particularly Howard\u2019s ability to covet the working- and middle-class. They adopted and adapted aspects of it to eventual success. That\u2019s useful for both sides, if only to do what Calandra did and justify each other\u2019s existence and continued power.But maybe most interestingly, Abbott\u2019s decision provides an important message for Canada\u2019s grassroots conservatives, if they want to hear it.\u00a0Harper\u2019s current troubles have come since Conservative senator Mike Duffy was found to have incorrectly billed taxpayers for living and travel expenses and that, to rectify the imbalance, Harper\u2019s then-chief of staff offered to pay it out of his own pocket. The police also allege\u00a0that other member\u2019s of Harper\u2019s inner circle knew of the payment and coached Duffy to instead tell the public a different story. Harper has claimed ignorance of the entire affair, but it has severely damaged his reputation as an incorruptible straight-shooter and a no-nonsense manager \u2013 the kind of image Abbott is also trying to form despite an expenses row of his own.But here, there is one key difference between the two. Abbott leads a group of MPs that can get rid of him; Harper leads a group of MPs who cannot, as he \u2013 like all Canadian political leaders \u2013 is instead chosen by the party membership. However, coming down the pike is a bill from a backbench Conservative MP that aims, in part, to change that, and return that power to the base. It could prove crucial.\u201cThe most important thing always in politics is to stand for something,\u201d Howard said in March. \u201cAnd once a government looks as though it doesn\u2019t stand for something and has lost its way philosophically, it\u2019s only a matter of time before the public vote it out.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Stephen Harper", "Environment", "Australian immigration and asylum", "Carbon tax"], "title": "Australia and Canada: a conservative bromance | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2013-12-16T17:39:45Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Listen on VimeoIt would appear that 27 year-old Chantal Bellavance \u2013 budding actress, model, self-described 'fashionista sans budget' \u2013 is also a decent singer-songwriter, if her recently released four-track EP J\u2019attends is anything to go by.J\u2019attends hits you with a blast of retro-80\u2032s influenced synthesiser-pop \u2013 four vignettes of bitter-sweet slices of life, love, despondency and disillusionment \u2013 that are nigh on perfect.And then there is Chantal\u2019s crystal-clear voice, which rises and soars, never more so than on Qui \u2013 the EPs standout track \u2013 on which her laser-like vocals cut like a searchlight through the gloom.\u2022 More from Filles Sourires\u2022 East Brunswick All Girls Choir \u2013 Dirty Bird: New music from Australia\u2022 Midimode: New music from Russia", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock"], "title": "Chantal Bellavance: New music from Canada"},{"date": "2013-12-13T12:14:17Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Pope Francis might be Time magazine's person of the year, but for Canada, there can be little doubt who our main noisemaker has been. Toronto's mayor, Rob Ford, with his acknowledgments of crack smoking, drunken stupors, driving while under the influence and socialising with drug dealers, has made Canadians cringe in an unexpected way.Consider that Canadians view much of the world through American media, which places us in a very odd, existential state: we experience much of the world from the perspective of a country that barely knows we exist. When Canada does make the news, either as a Simpsons one-liner or a news story about some extreme weather, it sets off a collective frisson \u2013 a brief but thrilling sensation of being acknowledged.Ford's ongoing fame is that much more agonising, given its epic scope. He has become one of the most famous Canadians in the world, attaining the kind of recognition usually only granted to one of our citizens once they have left the country, like William Shatner, Celine Dion or Justin Bieber.But Ford's notoriety, which now includes the opening sketch for Saturday Night Live and a New Yorker cartoon, is horrifying to Canadians for another reason. It's the terror of recognition. Sadly but truly, Ford has become the very personification of what Canada has become.This is difficult news for non-Canadians to digest. After all, many, if not most of you got your impression of Canada through Michael Moore's hugely popular documentaries: we are kind, gentle people who don't lock our doors at night, believe in universal healthcare and gun control and stayed out of the invasion of Iraq.As some critics have pointed out, our prime minister, Stephen Harper, has remained remarkably silent on the Ford debacle. Harper needs the support of much of Ford's pugnacious voter base, many of who remain staunchly loyal despite the snowballing scandals and gaffes. (Last week, in a TV interview that can only be described as ludicrously sycophantic, ex-con Conrad Black spoke to Ford, who insinuated that a reporter covering his story might be a paedophile. The reporter has served him with a libel notice.) While different in their public demeanour, Harper and Ford are flip sides of the same hard-right coin.And that makes the image of Ford all the more unsettling. What was once Canada the cool, the country a 1991 Economist cover story called the \"post-modern nation-state\", has now devolved into a rightwing hellhole. Ford was elected in 2010, one year prior to Canada's Conservative party winning a majority in the national parliament. Since then, Harper, a man who once referred to global warming as \"a socialist conspiracy\", has pushed Canada's policies sharply to the right.Canada now has tough-on-crime legislation that includes strict minimum sentences \u2013 enacted despite the advice of some American Republican lawmakers, who pointed out that similar legislation south of the border has been expensive and ineffectual. Harper moved to dismantle the long-gun registry, which was brought in after a brutal 1989 mass shooting left 14 women dead at the hands of a deranged gunman. The registry was ended despite the pleas of victims-rights groups and police officers, who almost unanimously supported it.But Canada's ideological reversal of fortune is perhaps most devastating when one considers environmental issues. Under the previous Liberal government, Canada had been one of the key architects of the Kyoto protocol; Harper's Conservatives officially withdrew Canada from the protocol, and instead are championing Alberta's tar sands, a development many predict will have a catastrophic impact. In an announcement in November that was eclipsed by the Ford soap opera, the Washington, DC-based Center for Global Development ranked 27 countries in terms of their commitment to environmental protection. Canada came in 27th.Adding to Canada's woes is the recent proposed legislation in Quebec \u2013 usually the most progressive province in the country \u2013 that would ban turbans, kippas and hijabs from being worn by government workers. Quebec politicians insist the Values Charter, as it has come to be known, will unify citizens by enforcing secularism. But racial and religious minorities see the move as discriminatory and divisive.Making this a bone-deep trauma is the fact that Harper's Conservatives won their majority with only 39% of the popular vote. The votes between our moderate party (the Liberals) and leftwing party (New Democrats) meant that the sanity vote was divided. It could be likened to the American presidential election of 2000, when Bush managed to win via the electoral college system, despite the fact that Gore won the popular vote.Each time Ford appears in the media, it's another eerie reminder of what we've become: crude, swaggering, bungling, irrational and mendacious. We've reached that staggering moment in a brilliant horror film when our protagonist realises the truth: Rob Ford is the New Canada. He is us.", "tags": ["Canada", "Rob Ford", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Sadly, Rob Ford epitomises what Canada has become | Matthew Hays"},{"date": "2013-11-28T14:21:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": " 2.21pm GMT The Commons home affairs select committee has published some details of the session on Tuesday 3 December at which the Guardian's editor, Alan Rusbridger, will be questioned about the paper's Snowden revelations.\u00a0The session, billed as a \"counter-terrorism evidence session\", will begin at 3pm.3pm:\u00a0Alan Rusbridger, editor, the Guardian 4pm: Sir Bernard Hogan-Howe, Metropolitan police commissioner, and Cressida Dick, assistant commissioner, Metropolitan policeI'll live blog the whole session here.  12.41pm GMT He added:I never said that all the documents in my possession that haven\u2019t yet been published are ones that shouldn\u2019t be published. In fact there\u2019s a lot more reporting that I intend to do that other media outlets intend to do in publishing these documents. There are a lot of these documents that are extremely newsworthy.How much more is to come?I haven\u2019t counted. I don\u2019t have an exact count. But I can tell you that, if I had to guess, we are still in the first part, the first half of the reporting. The majority of reporting on these documents for sure is reporting that has yet to be done but that will be done. 12.34pm GMT Greenwald was also asked who currently had Snowden\u2019s published and unpublished documents.Myself, Laura Poitras, the New York Times has a large number of documents, the Guardian has a large number of documents, and the Washington Post does as well. So basically the world\u2019s largest and most respected western newspapers are in possession of a large number of these documents in addition to myself and Laura Poitras \u2026 Myself and Laura Poitras have the full set of documents and others have portions of them. 12.29pm GMT Former Guardian journalist Glenn Greenwald, one of the key reporters of the Snowden revelations, appeared on BBC World News\u2019s Hardtalk yesterday.In the interview Greenwald explained why he felt the NSA\u2019s surveillance of metadata \u2013 who spoke to whom, and when, rather than what was said \u2013 was intrusive \u2013 in some cases more intrusive than the content of the calls itself.Think about for example if your daughter decides that she wants to get an abortion, or your best friend has HIV and wants to consult a doctor. If someone is listening to their telephone calls that they make, they will only hear those people calling and making an appointment with some doctor whose specialty they won\u2019t probably even know.But if they collect that person\u2019s metadata they will see that that woman has called an abortion clinic, or that friend has called a doctor specialising in HIV treatment, or that someone has called a suicide hotline or a drug addiction clinic. 11.37am GMT Welcome to our hub for all Edward Snowden, NSA and GCHQ-related developments around the world. As arguments rage over how much of our day to day life should be monitored in the name of security, we'll be tracking the growing global debate about privacy in the digital age. We'd like to know what you think about the whole NSA story, what you're worried about \u2013 and any new areas you'd like to read more about.Good morning. Here are the headlines:\u2022\u00a0Canada allowed the NSA to conduct widespread surveillance during the 2010 G8 and G20 summits, according to a Canadian Broadcasting Corporation report citing documents from former NSA contractor Edward Snowden. It was already known that the 2009 London G20 meetings were monitored, on that occasion by Britain\u2019s GCHQ.CBC reports, in a story co-written by former Guardian journalist Glenn Greenwald:Top secret documents retrieved by U.S. whistleblower Edward Snowden show that Prime Minister Stephen Harper's government allowed the largest American spy agency to conduct widespread surveillance in Canada during the 2010 G8 and G20 summits.The documents are being reported exclusively by CBC News.The briefing notes, stamped \"Top Secret,\" show the U.S. turned its Ottawa embassy into a security command post during a six-day spying operation by the National Security Agency while U.S. President Barack Obama and 25 other foreign heads of state were on Canadian soil in June of 2010.The covert U.S. operation was no secret to Canadian authorities.An NSA briefing note describes the American agency's operational plans at the Toronto summit meeting and notes they were \"closely co-ordinated with the Canadian partner.\"\u2022 The Indonesian foreign minister, Marty Natalegawa, has signalled that the rebuilding of relations between Australia and Indonesia in the wake of the phone-tapping revelations is only at \u201cstep one\u201d in a long process he hopes will result in the signing of a binding code of ethics between the two nations, report Oliver Laughland in Sydney and Karima Anjani in Jakarta.Speaking to reporters at a special parliamentary hearing in Jakarta over the phone-tapping revelations, Natalegawa confirmed he would contact the Australian foreign minister, Julie Bishop, following the president\u2019s call for a new deal between the two countries to be forged in six steps.Last Monday, Guardian Australia and the Australian Broadcasting Corporation revealed that Australian spy agencies had targeted the personal mobile phones of Yudhoyono, his wife and eight other senior ministers in 2009.I\u2019ll have live coverage of all developments here throughout the day.Updated at 9.45am GMT", "tags": ["The NSA files", "NSA", "World news", "US news", "UK news", "GCHQ", "Australia news", "Canada", "Indonesia", "US national security", "Edward Snowden", "Prism", "Surveillance", "Espionage", "UK security and counter-terrorism", "Counter-terrorism policy", "Media", "The Guardian", "Newspapers", "Press freedom"], "title": "Canada 'allowed NSA to spy on G8 and G20 summits'"},{"date": "2013-11-25T20:43:55Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has given the go-ahead to commercial production of genetically modified salmon eggs, bringing the world's first GM food animal closer to supermarkets and dinner tables.In a decision buried in routine business in the Canada Gazette, Environment Canada said it had granted a US biotechnology firm, AquaBounty Technologies Inc, permission to export up to 100,000 GM fish eggs a year from a hatchery in Prince Edward Island to a site high in the Panamanian rainforest.\u00a0The decision marked the first time any government had given the go-ahead to commercial scale production involving a GM food animal.The move clears the way for AquaBounty to scale up production of the salmon at its sites in PEI and Panama in anticipation of eventual approval by American authorities.The Food and Drug Administration is expected to render a decision in the near future on the sale of GM salmon, and in due course some 30 other species of GM fish currently under development, campaigners and industry figures said.The Canadian government said in its decision that the GM fish presented a high risk to Atlantic salmon, in the event of an escape, and a spokesman was adamant there would be no immediate sale or consumption of GM salmon eggs in Canada.\u201cThere are strict measures in place to prevent the release of this fish into the food chain,\u201d an Environment Canada spokesman said by email. \u201cIn Canada, no genetically modified fish or eggs are currently approved for the purposes of human consumption.\u201dBut the limited approval still represents a big win for AquaBounty which has fought for 20 years to bring GM salmon to American dinner tables.\u201cThis is a significant milestone in our efforts to make AquAdvantage\u00ae salmon available for commercial production,\u201d Ron Stotish, the company's chief executive, said in a statement.AquaBounty\u00a0has been raising GM salmon for several years on an experimental basis, growing fish eggs at a lab in PEI and then flying them to a ramshackle test site at a secretive inland location in the Panamanian rainforest, where they were grown to full size, and then ultimately destroyed.The GM fish splices growth genes\u00a0from a Chinook salmon and a seal eel onto an Atlantic salmon \u2013 which AquaBounty claims enables the altered animal to grow twice as fast as a regular fish.Lucy Sharratt of the Canadian Biotechnology Action Network said last week's decision made it easier for the FDA to contemplate approval, so clearing a potential obstacle in AquaBounty moving towards full-scale commercial production.\u201cThis is one concrete step closer to the reality of GM fish on our plates, and unfortunately it is a really dramatic step,\u201d she said. \u201cIt's a global first, and it has a significant global potential impact for our environment. It starts a chain of decisions that could be just disastrous for our aquatic ecosystems.\u201dThe move by the Canadian authorities follows a run of setbacks for AquaBounty \u2013 and growing scrutiny of its operations from campaign groups.An environmental group in Panama last week wrote to the authorities with concerns that the AquaBounty site was operating without the necessary permits and inspections.The Panamanian test site has had a history of mishaps. In 2008, a storm destroyed part of the facility, according to a filing to the FDA. In 2010, an entire batch of fingerlings died in transit, according to Panamanian officials.All the while, AquaBounty fought to navigate the US regulatory process and to stay afloat. The company has run through more than $60m waiting for approval.The company has also fought to win over the public to the idea of GM fish. Within the last year, supermarket chains such as Whole Foods and Trader Joes, have said they will not stock GM salmon.AquaBounty must still win approval to raise the fish on commercial scale from the authorities in Panama \u2013 and the site so far consists of just a few tanks at the end of an unpaved road.The company will also have to apply anew to the Canadian government if it wants to raise the fish commercially at any other site.\u00a0AquaBounty must still obtain approval from the FDA before it can begin to try to bring the fish to market in America.But Stotish said in the statement the company planned to go into commercial production once those other approvals are in place.", "tags": ["GM", "Canada", "Panama", "World news", "Food & drink industry", "Environment", "US news", "Fish"], "title": "Canada approves production of GM salmon eggs on commercial scale"},{"date": "2013-11-25T16:15:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canadians are following the implementation of the Affordable Care Act with the hope that it will lead to better healthcare for all Americans. But that hope is tempered by feelings of disappointment and confusion that America still has not progressed to a single-payer universal healthcare system.For Canadians, the value of public healthcare is self-evident.We spend roughly 60% of what the United States does on healthcare (pdf), and manage to cover everyone (10.6% of GDP in Canada vs. 17% in the US). In a public system, spending less does not mean worse healthcare outcomes. Measured by life expectancy, infant mortality, cancer survival rates and many other measures, Canadians enjoy the same or better levels of care than Americans. Public healthcare costs less, delivers more and is there for everyone, regardless of their ability to pay.How is it possible for a public healthcare system to deliver more and better care at a lower cost? The secret is in the two major differences between the Canadian and American health care systems. First, in Canada, core hospital services can only be non-profit. Eliminating the need to funnel profits to shareholders represents a 10-15% savings right off the bat.Second, the Canadian single-payer system \u2013 when expanded across the entire country \u2013 is simply the most efficient way to run a healthcare system. Risk is pooled across the largest possible population. And a large, single system means that the share of health spending that goes towards administrative costs is 16.7% in Canada, compared to a whopping 31% in the US. In a public system the emphasis is no longer on itemizing, invoicing and collecting payment from individuals, and resources can be shifted to where they are needed: patient care.While for-profit health corporations and big pharmaceutical companies are fighting to privatize more of Canada's health care, polls consistently show that Canadians strongly oppose this. A survey in December 2011, found that 94% of Canadians are in favour of public over for-profit healthcare (pdf).Public healthcare is funded out of general taxation, so Canadians never get a medical bill in the mail. The only plastic card we need to take to the hospital is our government issued health card. From there, the bill is settled between the hospital and the provincial government.Freedom from medical bills leaves Canadians with many more care options. Depending on the size of the city we live in (bigger cities have more options), we choose the doctors we want, the type of practice we're comfortable with (single-doctor, team based, community), or how we want to birth our children (with a midwife, a doctor, at home, in a birthing centre, or at a hospital).If it is decided between a patient and their health professional that a procedure is medically necessary, we are referred for the service. There is no insurance provider coming between a patient and their doctor, deciding what services we can and cannot have done. As long as the procedure is not purely cosmetic, it is covered by public medical insurance.We do not have to pass a medical exam to be covered by public insurance. Pre-existing conditions require future monitoring and additional care or services; they are never something that disqualifies us from coverage.In a single-payer system you also are not locked in to your current job to keep health coverage. Public health insurance allows Canadians more freedom to change jobs and careers knowing that their healthcare coverage will follow them.It is true that we do sometimes have to wait for care in Canada. How much time varies by procedure and province. The system is guided by triage; if you have a medical reason to get the procedure done immediately, you get it right away. If your condition isn't as serious, you might have to wait. But just because someone is wealthy does not mean they can pay and bump you down the list. We determine care solely by need.Canada's public healthcare system reflects our belief in the right of every person to access care when they need it, regardless of their ability to pay. We believe that people should have the freedom to make decisions on health matters with their doctors and not have their choice invalidated by a large corporation looking out for their bottom line.Canadians believe in a public, single-tiered, healthcare system that puts people first. We also believe that if Americans knew what they were truly missing, they would demand nothing less than the same for themselves.", "tags": ["US healthcare", "US news", "World news", "Canada", "Healthcare industry", "Insurance industry", "US politics"], "title": "America, want freedom of choice? Try public healthcare like Canada | Adrienne Silnicki"},{"date": "2014-03-20T20:22:34Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ted Baker hailed its transformation into a \"global lifestyle brand\" as the eccentric fashion label revealed strong sales growth in North America, Asia and Europe.Ray Kelvin, founder and chief executive of the group, said the brand had performed well online and in stores around the world. \"We've been designing the right product. It's a very simple formula.\"The brand, which has 362 stores and concessions as far afield as China, Japan and Canada, said sales rose more than a quarter to \u00a3322m while pre-tax profits rose 35% to \u00a339m.Growth was particularly strong in the US and Canada, up 38%, as the company said its brand had gained recognition by opening an outlet on New York's Fifth Avenue. Sales continued to power ahead in Britain where the group opened a new store at Gatwick airport and rebuilt its website, helping drive a 51% rise in online sales across Europe.Kelvin, who launched the label as a shirt store in Glasgow, said the new online platform would help Ted Baker open internet stores around the world with plans to launch in Australia this year. \"Its efficient, quick and easy to use,\" he said.He said the pace of high street store openings would slow as Ted Baker got existing outlets \"motoring\".\"It's just getting good,\" he said. \"We started the year very well. [The economy] has been tough but I think its getting better and we are cautiously confident.\"", "tags": ["Retail industry", "Fashion industry", "Business", "Fashion"], "title": "Ted Baker reports burgeoning sales in US and Canada"},{"date": "2014-03-20T20:22:34Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ted Baker hailed its transformation into a \"global lifestyle brand\" as the eccentric fashion label revealed strong sales growth in North America, Asia and Europe.Ray Kelvin, founder and chief executive of the group, said the brand had performed well online and in stores around the world. \"We've been designing the right product. It's a very simple formula.\"The brand, which has 362 stores and concessions as far afield as China, Japan and Canada, said sales rose more than a quarter to \u00a3322m while pre-tax profits rose 35% to \u00a339m.Growth was particularly strong in the US and Canada, up 38%, as the company said its brand had gained recognition by opening an outlet on New York's Fifth Avenue. Sales continued to power ahead in Britain where the group opened a new store at Gatwick airport and rebuilt its website, helping drive a 51% rise in online sales across Europe.Kelvin, who launched the label as a shirt store in Glasgow, said the new online platform would help Ted Baker open internet stores around the world with plans to launch in Australia this year. \"Its efficient, quick and easy to use,\" he said.He said the pace of high street store openings would slow as Ted Baker got existing outlets \"motoring\".\"It's just getting good,\" he said. \"We started the year very well. [The economy] has been tough but I think its getting better and we are cautiously confident.\"", "tags": ["Retail industry", "Fashion industry", "Business", "Fashion"], "title": "Ted Baker reports burgeoning sales in US and Canada"},{"date": "2014-03-19T19:27:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Vladimir Putin may have taken Crimea for Russia, but in Washington on Wednesday the talk was of US annexation of Canada \u2013 all 4m square miles of it.That at least was the \u201cthought experiment\u201d conducted by the Woodrow Wilson Center, a prestigious DC thinktank, which hosted a debate featuring the author of a book advocating political union of the two North American neighbours.Diane Francis, a conservative Canadian newspaper columnist with dual US citizenship, says her call for the \u201cmerger of the century\u201d has been listened to more seriously south of the border where she claims to have received complimentary letters from Hillary Clinton and Jeb Bush.\u201cIn Canada, people are horrified,\u201d admitted Francis, before discussing how its 13 provinces and territories could become US states \u2013 but why Quebec might instead choose to become a semi-independent commonwealth, \u201ca bit like Puerto Rico\u201d.Though few, if any, of those on Wilson\u2019s panel of experts believed it could ever happen, the whimsical nature of their debate belied more serious discussion of the merits of European-style border reform and growing talk of greater economic integration even among North American political leaders.At a summit in Mexico last month celebrating the 20th anniversary of the North American Free Trade Agreement, Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper and US and Mexican presidents Barack Obama and Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto all urged regional trade harmonisation as a counterweight to China and agreed on a new fast-track border scheme for \u201ctrusted\u201d travellers.Francis simply argues that Canada could travel much faster down this route than Mexico.\u201cI think we are already merging,\u201d she said at Wednesday\u2019s debate. \u201cWe should just get on with it and take away the border. My solution to fixing the border problem is just to get rid of it.\u201dHer thesis rests partly on the claim that the two countries have become more alike in recent decades as the US grows more liberal and Canada less parochial, but she admits the notion of 35 million new Democratic-leaning voters might prove a deal-breaker for many Republicans, as well as a few politicians north of the border.\u201cCanadians would act like a fabric softener for US politics,\u201d claims Francis, allowing reforms like universal healthcare to take root, while also providing a pressure valve for conservative Americans and Quebecois nationalists alike.In return, goes the argument, American conservatives could find allies in Alberta and the Arctic and help drive North American energy production, both fossil fuel and renewable, in ways that would make current arguments over the Keystone oil pipeline redundant.Nevertheless, Francis admitted her idea of Canada joining the US as a series of new federal states is mainly a polemic designed to draw attention to her more concrete proposals for economic integration.\u201cThe politics of this probably make a full union impossible,\u201d she conceded.\u201cAt best, my guess is that maybe we can get rid of the border and move towards the next step, which is a customs union.\u201dThe panel agreed, concluding that the thought experiment was a \u201cpolicy provocation\u201d pointing more to lessons that can be drawn from the European Union rather than, say, the unification of Germany.\u201cThere is a lot that America and Canada can learn from Europe, but even there the dream of a federal Europe has largely been replaced with one of greater co-operation,\u201d said Michael Geary, a Wilson Center fellow.\u201cWhile the European Union in its form today is not one I would recommend, aspects of the EU policy framework could benefit the Canadian American relationship.\u201dBut, conceded Geary, a book called \u201cEnhanced Co-operation\u201d might not sell as well as one called \u201cMerger of the Century\u201d.", "tags": ["Canada", "US news", "US politics", "US foreign policy", "US economy", "Business", "Nato"], "title": "US thinktank ponders: how about annexing Canada, eh?"},{"date": "2014-03-20T20:22:34Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ted Baker hailed its transformation into a \"global lifestyle brand\" as the eccentric fashion label revealed strong sales growth in North America, Asia and Europe.Ray Kelvin, founder and chief executive of the group, said the brand had performed well online and in stores around the world. \"We've been designing the right product. It's a very simple formula.\"The brand, which has 362 stores and concessions as far afield as China, Japan and Canada, said sales rose more than a quarter to \u00a3322m while pre-tax profits rose 35% to \u00a339m.Growth was particularly strong in the US and Canada, up 38%, as the company said its brand had gained recognition by opening an outlet on New York's Fifth Avenue. Sales continued to power ahead in Britain where the group opened a new store at Gatwick airport and rebuilt its website, helping drive a 51% rise in online sales across Europe.Kelvin, who launched the label as a shirt store in Glasgow, said the new online platform would help Ted Baker open internet stores around the world with plans to launch in Australia this year. \"Its efficient, quick and easy to use,\" he said.He said the pace of high street store openings would slow as Ted Baker got existing outlets \"motoring\".\"It's just getting good,\" he said. \"We started the year very well. [The economy] has been tough but I think its getting better and we are cautiously confident.\"", "tags": ["Retail industry", "Fashion industry", "Business", "Fashion"], "title": "Ted Baker reports burgeoning sales in US and Canada"},{"date": "2014-03-19T19:27:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Vladimir Putin may have taken Crimea for Russia, but in Washington on Wednesday the talk was of US annexation of Canada \u2013 all 4m square miles of it.That at least was the \u201cthought experiment\u201d conducted by the Woodrow Wilson Center, a prestigious DC thinktank, which hosted a debate featuring the author of a book advocating political union of the two North American neighbours.Diane Francis, a conservative Canadian newspaper columnist with dual US citizenship, says her call for the \u201cmerger of the century\u201d has been listened to more seriously south of the border where she claims to have received complimentary letters from Hillary Clinton and Jeb Bush.\u201cIn Canada, people are horrified,\u201d admitted Francis, before discussing how its 13 provinces and territories could become US states \u2013 but why Quebec might instead choose to become a semi-independent commonwealth, \u201ca bit like Puerto Rico\u201d.Though few, if any, of those on Wilson\u2019s panel of experts believed it could ever happen, the whimsical nature of their debate belied more serious discussion of the merits of European-style border reform and growing talk of greater economic integration even among North American political leaders.At a summit in Mexico last month celebrating the 20th anniversary of the North American Free Trade Agreement, Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper and US and Mexican presidents Barack Obama and Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto all urged regional trade harmonisation as a counterweight to China and agreed on a new fast-track border scheme for \u201ctrusted\u201d travellers.Francis simply argues that Canada could travel much faster down this route than Mexico.\u201cI think we are already merging,\u201d she said at Wednesday\u2019s debate. \u201cWe should just get on with it and take away the border. My solution to fixing the border problem is just to get rid of it.\u201dHer thesis rests partly on the claim that the two countries have become more alike in recent decades as the US grows more liberal and Canada less parochial, but she admits the notion of 35 million new Democratic-leaning voters might prove a deal-breaker for many Republicans, as well as a few politicians north of the border.\u201cCanadians would act like a fabric softener for US politics,\u201d claims Francis, allowing reforms like universal healthcare to take root, while also providing a pressure valve for conservative Americans and Quebecois nationalists alike.In return, goes the argument, American conservatives could find allies in Alberta and the Arctic and help drive North American energy production, both fossil fuel and renewable, in ways that would make current arguments over the Keystone oil pipeline redundant.Nevertheless, Francis admitted her idea of Canada joining the US as a series of new federal states is mainly a polemic designed to draw attention to her more concrete proposals for economic integration.\u201cThe politics of this probably make a full union impossible,\u201d she conceded.\u201cAt best, my guess is that maybe we can get rid of the border and move towards the next step, which is a customs union.\u201dThe panel agreed, concluding that the thought experiment was a \u201cpolicy provocation\u201d pointing more to lessons that can be drawn from the European Union rather than, say, the unification of Germany.\u201cThere is a lot that America and Canada can learn from Europe, but even there the dream of a federal Europe has largely been replaced with one of greater co-operation,\u201d said Michael Geary, a Wilson Center fellow.\u201cWhile the European Union in its form today is not one I would recommend, aspects of the EU policy framework could benefit the Canadian American relationship.\u201dBut, conceded Geary, a book called \u201cEnhanced Co-operation\u201d might not sell as well as one called \u201cMerger of the Century\u201d.", "tags": ["Canada", "US news", "US politics", "US foreign policy", "US economy", "Business", "Nato"], "title": "US thinktank ponders: how about annexing Canada, eh?"},{"date": "2014-02-16T06:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It's cold, somewhere near -25C, but with the wind it feels more like -35C. My eyes keep tearing up, creating small rivers of saline that run down my cheeks and freeze solid; tiny icicles form on my eyelashes, threatening to weld my contact lenses to my corneas. This is winter in the Duchesnay region of Quebec, Canada's largest province, and I am driving a team of sled dogs across a landscape locked in a deep freeze.\"These are perfect conditions for the dogs,\" says Nicolas Clich\u00e9-Plourde, musher, guide and co-owner of Aventure Inukshuk, based half an hour from Quebec City. \"When the temperature drops below -25C, they run at their best; they are stronger and have more stamina.\"Nicolas is a burly, slightly serious fellow, but projects a quiet confidence. He knows all 28 of his dogs by name and temperament, and picks the best 14 from among the barking and howling chaos of the kennel. Even though he is only 25, he has a lifetime of experience among the province's forests, lakes and rivers. He is very Canadian that way.Canada is somewhat rare in the world: it's a modern, tech-savvy country with well-educated people occupying the planet's third-greatest landmass, but still one of the least densely populated countries on Earth. It is a country of vast emptiness and serious outdoor environments. Having read Jack London's White Fang and Call of the Wild as a teenager, I can't think of a better \u2013 or more privileged \u2013 way to experience it than being out in the wilds with only dogs and a guide.\"Hep, hep, hep,\" calls Nicolas, his command to get his team of dogs moving. A winter sun hangs low in the distance, giving only the illusion of warmth in the dense, snow-covered forest of silver birch, spruce and sugar maples, the source of Quebec's most famous export.The air has a slightly metallic smell, an odour most Canadians associate with the coming of snow. It's the first morning of a three-day 150km dog-sled trek and, despite being clad in a thick snowmobile suit and boots, I can feel the cold seeping between the stitching. The only solution is to get my team on the trail. But it takes about 90 minutes to get the dogs rounded up and hooked to the sleds; I have six, while Nicolas hooks up eight. They are all adrenaline: barking and howling, pulling at the harnesses, eager to go. Once we're off, they fall into an easy gait, mostly quiet with tongues dangling.Driving a dog sled is like a cross between skiing and surfing, with a little long-distance running thrown in for good measure. It looks easy: you stand on runners at the back of the sled and let the dogs do all the work. The reality is a little different. Keeping control of this mob of yapping, loping mutts \u2013 likened by Nicolas to a classroom of rowdy teenagers \u2013 is a matter of timing, gaining the respect of the dogs, and prudent use of the foot brake, arguably the most important skill. Hit the brake at the right time \u2013 just before a turn \u2013 and it's smooth sailing; hit the brake at the wrong time \u2013 as you make the turn \u2013 and it's almost impossible to control the sled. Add a little ice to the mix and all bets are off. This was the mistake I made \u2013 that and taking my eye off the team. A slight loss of concentration and the sled was being dragged along the snow without its driver. What this crash into the bush demonstrated is the almost symbiotic relationship between a musher and his dogs. Here, in modern Canada, getting truly separated from your dogs can be solved simply with a radio call and rescue but, in centuries past, it often meant death for both driver and dogs.The peoples of the north have used sled dogs for more than 3,000 years. However, it wasn't until the 19th and early 20th centuries that they became the stuff of legend. The Klondike gold rush in the 1890s put dog sledding on the map: everything that moved in the Yukon during the frozen season \u2013 prospectors, trappers, doctors, mail, commerce, trade \u2013 was moved by sled dogs. And then explorers Robert Falcon Scott and Roald Amundsen used sled dogs on their expeditions to the South Pole.Watching the dogs work is captivating. They are not as big as I imagined, and they are a lot stronger than they look, easily pulling my heavy sled over some very tricky terrain.\"It's all in the breeding,\" Nicolas tells me over hot chocolate that night. \"Our dogs are mostly mixed breeds, typically we use a mix of Alaskan or Siberian husky and greyhound. The husky genes give the dogs strength, stamina and ability to stand the cold, the greyhound adds speed.\"After four exhausting hours of half-running and half-riding, navigating tight trails, dodging low branches and trying to keep frostbite at bay, we finally reach our home for the next couple of days. The cabin is set deep in the woods, next to frozen Lake Maher. It's rustic, with a simple pitched roof, planks for walls, a plywood floor and wooden pallets for beds. There is only one room, where we cook, eat and sleep. The facilities are outside, a frozen outhouse and the forest are the only conveniences. When it's time to crawl into our sleeping bags, the table and benches are stacked up and stowed off to the side. Snow is piled high along the outside of the walls to help insulate us. A woodburning stove keeps the interior toasty but, with absolutely no mod cons, the only illumination comes from candles and head torches.As dusk falls, the dogs are settled, watered and fed; each gets a frozen block of meat twice a day, topped up with dog soup \u2013 a mixture of water and nutritious dog nuggets packed with protein and vitamins. They are mustered outside and tied to a static line among the trees; the occasional yelp reminds us they are out there.As we turn to our dinner \u2013 a simple, thick stew-like soup, crusty bread, salad and lots of hot chocolate \u2013 the day's effort starts to kick in. It's a little like going to the gym for the first time after months of idleness: you're sore and tired but satisfied.We wake to another frozen morning. At -30C, it's the coldest I've ever experienced; even Nicolas puts on, for the first time, a heavy coat. The cold slows everything down; it's like having molasses in your veins. But the dogs are awake and frisky. They know that there is more sledding ahead and they can't wait.Today is all about exploring our surroundings. There are wolves and moose nearby, but getting close enough to spot them is almost impossible. Our pack of noisy dogs makes sure of that. We do find plenty of tracks though, especially of snowshoe hares: their side-by-side footprints are often the only evidence of wildlife in this frozen environment.The next day we are joined by musher and guide Jonathan Goulet, who has been dropped off by a passing snowmobile, he will accompany us back to the main kennels. Good thing too. All that hammering on the brake for two days has made my right foot somewhat useless. Jonathan will take control of my sled, while I get the luxury of riding as a passenger. \"Do you want to ride like a tourist or a musher?\" he shouts over the dogs. He leaves me little time to answer and soon our team are flying down a hill more suited to alpine skiing.We emerge from the shadowy forest to a large expanse of blinding snow. Grey trees poke through the white sheet, making the scene look like a Dal\u00ed painting. By now the dogs are running flat out, grabbing mouthfuls of snow to cool down and defecating on the fly. We cover the last 30km in what feels like record time, arriving at the kennels as the sun casts long shadows. The worn out dogs roll in the snow to cool off. Though sad that my adventure in Quebec's wilderness has come to an end, I won't forget my team: Whisky at the front, Maikon and Pico \u2013 with the blue eyes \u2013 in the middle; strong Koho and Kioki at the back. And all of them in thrall to lead dog Luna, the indefatigable alpha female.\u2022 The trip was provided by Wexas Travel (020-7590 0622, wexas.com), which has a five-night package flying into Quebec City and out of Montreal, including three days' dog-sledding, car hire and flights, from \u00a31,795pp", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Extreme sports holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "Husky sledding in Canada: one man and his dogs"},{"date": "2014-03-20T20:22:34Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ted Baker hailed its transformation into a \"global lifestyle brand\" as the eccentric fashion label revealed strong sales growth in North America, Asia and Europe.Ray Kelvin, founder and chief executive of the group, said the brand had performed well online and in stores around the world. \"We've been designing the right product. It's a very simple formula.\"The brand, which has 362 stores and concessions as far afield as China, Japan and Canada, said sales rose more than a quarter to \u00a3322m while pre-tax profits rose 35% to \u00a339m.Growth was particularly strong in the US and Canada, up 38%, as the company said its brand had gained recognition by opening an outlet on New York's Fifth Avenue. Sales continued to power ahead in Britain where the group opened a new store at Gatwick airport and rebuilt its website, helping drive a 51% rise in online sales across Europe.Kelvin, who launched the label as a shirt store in Glasgow, said the new online platform would help Ted Baker open internet stores around the world with plans to launch in Australia this year. \"Its efficient, quick and easy to use,\" he said.He said the pace of high street store openings would slow as Ted Baker got existing outlets \"motoring\".\"It's just getting good,\" he said. \"We started the year very well. [The economy] has been tough but I think its getting better and we are cautiously confident.\"", "tags": ["Retail industry", "Fashion industry", "Business", "Fashion"], "title": "Ted Baker reports burgeoning sales in US and Canada"},{"date": "2014-03-19T19:27:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Vladimir Putin may have taken Crimea for Russia, but in Washington on Wednesday the talk was of US annexation of Canada \u2013 all 4m square miles of it.That at least was the \u201cthought experiment\u201d conducted by the Woodrow Wilson Center, a prestigious DC thinktank, which hosted a debate featuring the author of a book advocating political union of the two North American neighbours.Diane Francis, a conservative Canadian newspaper columnist with dual US citizenship, says her call for the \u201cmerger of the century\u201d has been listened to more seriously south of the border where she claims to have received complimentary letters from Hillary Clinton and Jeb Bush.\u201cIn Canada, people are horrified,\u201d admitted Francis, before discussing how its 13 provinces and territories could become US states \u2013 but why Quebec might instead choose to become a semi-independent commonwealth, \u201ca bit like Puerto Rico\u201d.Though few, if any, of those on Wilson\u2019s panel of experts believed it could ever happen, the whimsical nature of their debate belied more serious discussion of the merits of European-style border reform and growing talk of greater economic integration even among North American political leaders.At a summit in Mexico last month celebrating the 20th anniversary of the North American Free Trade Agreement, Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper and US and Mexican presidents Barack Obama and Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto all urged regional trade harmonisation as a counterweight to China and agreed on a new fast-track border scheme for \u201ctrusted\u201d travellers.Francis simply argues that Canada could travel much faster down this route than Mexico.\u201cI think we are already merging,\u201d she said at Wednesday\u2019s debate. \u201cWe should just get on with it and take away the border. My solution to fixing the border problem is just to get rid of it.\u201dHer thesis rests partly on the claim that the two countries have become more alike in recent decades as the US grows more liberal and Canada less parochial, but she admits the notion of 35 million new Democratic-leaning voters might prove a deal-breaker for many Republicans, as well as a few politicians north of the border.\u201cCanadians would act like a fabric softener for US politics,\u201d claims Francis, allowing reforms like universal healthcare to take root, while also providing a pressure valve for conservative Americans and Quebecois nationalists alike.In return, goes the argument, American conservatives could find allies in Alberta and the Arctic and help drive North American energy production, both fossil fuel and renewable, in ways that would make current arguments over the Keystone oil pipeline redundant.Nevertheless, Francis admitted her idea of Canada joining the US as a series of new federal states is mainly a polemic designed to draw attention to her more concrete proposals for economic integration.\u201cThe politics of this probably make a full union impossible,\u201d she conceded.\u201cAt best, my guess is that maybe we can get rid of the border and move towards the next step, which is a customs union.\u201dThe panel agreed, concluding that the thought experiment was a \u201cpolicy provocation\u201d pointing more to lessons that can be drawn from the European Union rather than, say, the unification of Germany.\u201cThere is a lot that America and Canada can learn from Europe, but even there the dream of a federal Europe has largely been replaced with one of greater co-operation,\u201d said Michael Geary, a Wilson Center fellow.\u201cWhile the European Union in its form today is not one I would recommend, aspects of the EU policy framework could benefit the Canadian American relationship.\u201dBut, conceded Geary, a book called \u201cEnhanced Co-operation\u201d might not sell as well as one called \u201cMerger of the Century\u201d.", "tags": ["Canada", "US news", "US politics", "US foreign policy", "US economy", "Business", "Nato"], "title": "US thinktank ponders: how about annexing Canada, eh?"},{"date": "2014-02-16T06:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It's cold, somewhere near -25C, but with the wind it feels more like -35C. My eyes keep tearing up, creating small rivers of saline that run down my cheeks and freeze solid; tiny icicles form on my eyelashes, threatening to weld my contact lenses to my corneas. This is winter in the Duchesnay region of Quebec, Canada's largest province, and I am driving a team of sled dogs across a landscape locked in a deep freeze.\"These are perfect conditions for the dogs,\" says Nicolas Clich\u00e9-Plourde, musher, guide and co-owner of Aventure Inukshuk, based half an hour from Quebec City. \"When the temperature drops below -25C, they run at their best; they are stronger and have more stamina.\"Nicolas is a burly, slightly serious fellow, but projects a quiet confidence. He knows all 28 of his dogs by name and temperament, and picks the best 14 from among the barking and howling chaos of the kennel. Even though he is only 25, he has a lifetime of experience among the province's forests, lakes and rivers. He is very Canadian that way.Canada is somewhat rare in the world: it's a modern, tech-savvy country with well-educated people occupying the planet's third-greatest landmass, but still one of the least densely populated countries on Earth. It is a country of vast emptiness and serious outdoor environments. Having read Jack London's White Fang and Call of the Wild as a teenager, I can't think of a better \u2013 or more privileged \u2013 way to experience it than being out in the wilds with only dogs and a guide.\"Hep, hep, hep,\" calls Nicolas, his command to get his team of dogs moving. A winter sun hangs low in the distance, giving only the illusion of warmth in the dense, snow-covered forest of silver birch, spruce and sugar maples, the source of Quebec's most famous export.The air has a slightly metallic smell, an odour most Canadians associate with the coming of snow. It's the first morning of a three-day 150km dog-sled trek and, despite being clad in a thick snowmobile suit and boots, I can feel the cold seeping between the stitching. The only solution is to get my team on the trail. But it takes about 90 minutes to get the dogs rounded up and hooked to the sleds; I have six, while Nicolas hooks up eight. They are all adrenaline: barking and howling, pulling at the harnesses, eager to go. Once we're off, they fall into an easy gait, mostly quiet with tongues dangling.Driving a dog sled is like a cross between skiing and surfing, with a little long-distance running thrown in for good measure. It looks easy: you stand on runners at the back of the sled and let the dogs do all the work. The reality is a little different. Keeping control of this mob of yapping, loping mutts \u2013 likened by Nicolas to a classroom of rowdy teenagers \u2013 is a matter of timing, gaining the respect of the dogs, and prudent use of the foot brake, arguably the most important skill. Hit the brake at the right time \u2013 just before a turn \u2013 and it's smooth sailing; hit the brake at the wrong time \u2013 as you make the turn \u2013 and it's almost impossible to control the sled. Add a little ice to the mix and all bets are off. This was the mistake I made \u2013 that and taking my eye off the team. A slight loss of concentration and the sled was being dragged along the snow without its driver. What this crash into the bush demonstrated is the almost symbiotic relationship between a musher and his dogs. Here, in modern Canada, getting truly separated from your dogs can be solved simply with a radio call and rescue but, in centuries past, it often meant death for both driver and dogs.The peoples of the north have used sled dogs for more than 3,000 years. However, it wasn't until the 19th and early 20th centuries that they became the stuff of legend. The Klondike gold rush in the 1890s put dog sledding on the map: everything that moved in the Yukon during the frozen season \u2013 prospectors, trappers, doctors, mail, commerce, trade \u2013 was moved by sled dogs. And then explorers Robert Falcon Scott and Roald Amundsen used sled dogs on their expeditions to the South Pole.Watching the dogs work is captivating. They are not as big as I imagined, and they are a lot stronger than they look, easily pulling my heavy sled over some very tricky terrain.\"It's all in the breeding,\" Nicolas tells me over hot chocolate that night. \"Our dogs are mostly mixed breeds, typically we use a mix of Alaskan or Siberian husky and greyhound. The husky genes give the dogs strength, stamina and ability to stand the cold, the greyhound adds speed.\"After four exhausting hours of half-running and half-riding, navigating tight trails, dodging low branches and trying to keep frostbite at bay, we finally reach our home for the next couple of days. The cabin is set deep in the woods, next to frozen Lake Maher. It's rustic, with a simple pitched roof, planks for walls, a plywood floor and wooden pallets for beds. There is only one room, where we cook, eat and sleep. The facilities are outside, a frozen outhouse and the forest are the only conveniences. When it's time to crawl into our sleeping bags, the table and benches are stacked up and stowed off to the side. Snow is piled high along the outside of the walls to help insulate us. A woodburning stove keeps the interior toasty but, with absolutely no mod cons, the only illumination comes from candles and head torches.As dusk falls, the dogs are settled, watered and fed; each gets a frozen block of meat twice a day, topped up with dog soup \u2013 a mixture of water and nutritious dog nuggets packed with protein and vitamins. They are mustered outside and tied to a static line among the trees; the occasional yelp reminds us they are out there.As we turn to our dinner \u2013 a simple, thick stew-like soup, crusty bread, salad and lots of hot chocolate \u2013 the day's effort starts to kick in. It's a little like going to the gym for the first time after months of idleness: you're sore and tired but satisfied.We wake to another frozen morning. At -30C, it's the coldest I've ever experienced; even Nicolas puts on, for the first time, a heavy coat. The cold slows everything down; it's like having molasses in your veins. But the dogs are awake and frisky. They know that there is more sledding ahead and they can't wait.Today is all about exploring our surroundings. There are wolves and moose nearby, but getting close enough to spot them is almost impossible. Our pack of noisy dogs makes sure of that. We do find plenty of tracks though, especially of snowshoe hares: their side-by-side footprints are often the only evidence of wildlife in this frozen environment.The next day we are joined by musher and guide Jonathan Goulet, who has been dropped off by a passing snowmobile, he will accompany us back to the main kennels. Good thing too. All that hammering on the brake for two days has made my right foot somewhat useless. Jonathan will take control of my sled, while I get the luxury of riding as a passenger. \"Do you want to ride like a tourist or a musher?\" he shouts over the dogs. He leaves me little time to answer and soon our team are flying down a hill more suited to alpine skiing.We emerge from the shadowy forest to a large expanse of blinding snow. Grey trees poke through the white sheet, making the scene look like a Dal\u00ed painting. By now the dogs are running flat out, grabbing mouthfuls of snow to cool down and defecating on the fly. We cover the last 30km in what feels like record time, arriving at the kennels as the sun casts long shadows. The worn out dogs roll in the snow to cool off. Though sad that my adventure in Quebec's wilderness has come to an end, I won't forget my team: Whisky at the front, Maikon and Pico \u2013 with the blue eyes \u2013 in the middle; strong Koho and Kioki at the back. And all of them in thrall to lead dog Luna, the indefatigable alpha female.\u2022 The trip was provided by Wexas Travel (020-7590 0622, wexas.com), which has a five-night package flying into Quebec City and out of Montreal, including three days' dog-sledding, car hire and flights, from \u00a31,795pp", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Extreme sports holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "Husky sledding in Canada: one man and his dogs"},{"date": "2014-01-17T20:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Alaska (not Texas as is often assumed) is the biggest state in the US. At more than 663,000 square miles, it could swallow England 10 times over. To put its white vastness into context, if New York had the same population density, there would be only 16 people living in Manhattan.Many people's image of the state is of an enormous, freezing wasteland. But Alaska's wealth is built on white gold \u2013 the powdery, tourist-pleasing kind that falls from the sky. And the savviest way to enjoy this stunning, vast state in all its rugged, frozen glory is by snowmobile. Several companies offer \"safaris\" into the frozen wilds on these snorting mechanical steeds, and Alaska's backcountry is perfect for long-distance snowmobiling.On a three-day trip from the state's biggest city, Anchorage, to the continent's highest peak, Mount McKinley, you ride through stunning Denali state park, from lodge to lodge. These hostels-cum-petrol stations punctuate the crisscrossing trails like border checkpoints, and you sleep in creaking wooden bunks. Perfect, bright days are spent learning to ride: using your body weight to turn and carve and jump. There's a knack to riding a snowmobile at speed: it's more like windsurfing or riding a horse than driving.Crossing deep, wide snow meadows beneath craggy, unnamed peaks at speeds of up to 80mph for hours on end brings an exhilarating, almost elemental sense of freedom. Then, when the engines cut, the silence is so perfect you can almost hear it. \u2022 Eight nights from \u00a32,965pp, including flights. Safaris run November-April. 020-7426 9888, blacktomato.co.ukIn the US's latest extreme sport, you can spend the night camped on the side of a sheer rock face hundreds of feet up as you contemplate the fragility of human existence. Or just enjoy the incredible views over the Rockies. Kent Mountain Adventure Center in Estes Park, Colorado, offers cliff camping from May-September. \u2022 Overnight trip $600 each for three people. +1 970 586 5990, kmaconline.com/cliff-camping-colorado. More information from colorado.comView the great metropolis from a new perspective: a surfboard. Check into the brand new Playland Motel in Rockaway Beach, Queens, the city's first notable beachfront hotel. It's a short walk from the newly renovated Boarders (boarderssurfshop.com), so rent some gear and hit some Big Apple barrels. \u2022 Two-hour lesson for two $115pp. +1 718 496 3371, surflessonsnewyork101.comCombine comfort with a bit of a challenge at Red Mountain Resort's new Essential Fitness Retreat. The resort is just two hours' drive from Las Vegas but a world away from the brashness of Sin City. Think mountain biking, trekking, rock climbing, horse riding and honest exercise against a stunning backdrop. As gambles go, it's a win-win. \u2022 A seven-night break at Red Mountain Resort costs from \u00a31,990pp, through Health and Fitness Travel (020-3397 8891, healthandfitnesstravel.com) including full board and flightsThe grey wolves of Yellowstone park were nearly wiped out before conservation began in the mid-1990s. A new trip with Exodus allows you to track the elusive creatures through magnificent park scenery. Binoculars in hand, you're accompanied by a biologist as you scour the Northern Range for wolves and other wildlife, from pronghorn antelopes to coyotes.\u2022 Seven days from \u00a32,849pp including flights and most meals, departs 15 March. 0845 863 9600, exodus.co.ukStorm chasing sees you hunting twisters down America's Tornado Alley, reacting to satellite data as you race across the vast plains of the Midwest. From a base in Oklahoma City or Denver, you'll spend six days speeding across a number of states, including Kansas, Nebraska, Iowa and the Dakotas, aiming for as many Tornado Alley strikes as possible. From your convoy, you'll enjoy a front-row seat for one of nature's most spectacular shows. \u2022 From $2,600 for early bookers, flights extra. Trips run early May to mid-June. +1 970 367 5395, stormchasing.comPack your favourite flannel shirt for a trip to the Adirondack Woodsmen's School in upper New York state. You'll sleep all night and work all day on this two-week beginners' course covering everything from fire building to axe swinging, chainsaw maintenance to war canoe construction. You'll not only be a master of dendrology by the end of the fortnight, but also have a physique that is seriously cut. Your \"classroom\" is at Paul Smith's College on the shore of the Lower St Regis Lake, high up in the Adirondacks. \u2022 $2,190pp for two weeks full board, flights extra. +1 518 327 6990, adirondackwoodsmensschool.com Between July and September hundreds of salmon swim up Canada's roaring Campbell river, returning to their mother stream to spawn. For a snorkelling experience like no other, try this trip with Beaver Aquatics, where you enter the water in a wetsuit, mask, snorkel and fins and watch the salmon as they leap upstream. You may also notice that you're floating through proper grizzly bear territory \u2013 during spawning season they're drawn to the water in anticipation of a salmon supper.\u2022 Four-hour gear hire from C$35, +1 250-287-7652 beaveraquatics.ca. More information from hellobc.com Paleo fans with deep pockets will love the new Walking With Dinosaurs: A Journey Through Time tour. Developed by BBC Earth insiders alongside leading paleontologists and natural historians, it will lead guests through the heart of Canada's dinosaur country, around the Badlands town of Drumheller. You'll visit dig sites, learn how the \"terrible lizards\" lived via a series of workshops and presentations, and even get to experiment with dinosaur animation and green screen technology.\u2022 C$3,190pp (\u00a31,772) for five days, including transfers from Calgary and most meals, from 17-21 July. 0800-961-834, tauck.co.uk/tours/canada-toursBanff national park is arguably the best waterfall-climbing destination on the planet. If you're new to crampons, there are plenty of beginners' routes around the outdoorsy town of Canmore, where you can sharpen your ice axe and your skills. For the more experienced, there are a number of stunning technical waterfall ascents. \u2022 Two-day basic ice-climbing course from C$325pp (\u00a3180) with Yamnuska Mountain Adventures (+1 403 678 4164, yamnuska.com) ", "tags": ["United States holidays", "Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Walking holidays", "Group trips"], "title": "Adventure holidays and trips for 2014: US and Canada"},{"date": "2014-03-20T20:22:34Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ted Baker hailed its transformation into a \"global lifestyle brand\" as the eccentric fashion label revealed strong sales growth in North America, Asia and Europe.Ray Kelvin, founder and chief executive of the group, said the brand had performed well online and in stores around the world. \"We've been designing the right product. It's a very simple formula.\"The brand, which has 362 stores and concessions as far afield as China, Japan and Canada, said sales rose more than a quarter to \u00a3322m while pre-tax profits rose 35% to \u00a339m.Growth was particularly strong in the US and Canada, up 38%, as the company said its brand had gained recognition by opening an outlet on New York's Fifth Avenue. Sales continued to power ahead in Britain where the group opened a new store at Gatwick airport and rebuilt its website, helping drive a 51% rise in online sales across Europe.Kelvin, who launched the label as a shirt store in Glasgow, said the new online platform would help Ted Baker open internet stores around the world with plans to launch in Australia this year. \"Its efficient, quick and easy to use,\" he said.He said the pace of high street store openings would slow as Ted Baker got existing outlets \"motoring\".\"It's just getting good,\" he said. \"We started the year very well. [The economy] has been tough but I think its getting better and we are cautiously confident.\"", "tags": ["Retail industry", "Fashion industry", "Business", "Fashion"], "title": "Ted Baker reports burgeoning sales in US and Canada"},{"date": "2014-03-19T19:27:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Vladimir Putin may have taken Crimea for Russia, but in Washington on Wednesday the talk was of US annexation of Canada \u2013 all 4m square miles of it.That at least was the \u201cthought experiment\u201d conducted by the Woodrow Wilson Center, a prestigious DC thinktank, which hosted a debate featuring the author of a book advocating political union of the two North American neighbours.Diane Francis, a conservative Canadian newspaper columnist with dual US citizenship, says her call for the \u201cmerger of the century\u201d has been listened to more seriously south of the border where she claims to have received complimentary letters from Hillary Clinton and Jeb Bush.\u201cIn Canada, people are horrified,\u201d admitted Francis, before discussing how its 13 provinces and territories could become US states \u2013 but why Quebec might instead choose to become a semi-independent commonwealth, \u201ca bit like Puerto Rico\u201d.Though few, if any, of those on Wilson\u2019s panel of experts believed it could ever happen, the whimsical nature of their debate belied more serious discussion of the merits of European-style border reform and growing talk of greater economic integration even among North American political leaders.At a summit in Mexico last month celebrating the 20th anniversary of the North American Free Trade Agreement, Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper and US and Mexican presidents Barack Obama and Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto all urged regional trade harmonisation as a counterweight to China and agreed on a new fast-track border scheme for \u201ctrusted\u201d travellers.Francis simply argues that Canada could travel much faster down this route than Mexico.\u201cI think we are already merging,\u201d she said at Wednesday\u2019s debate. \u201cWe should just get on with it and take away the border. My solution to fixing the border problem is just to get rid of it.\u201dHer thesis rests partly on the claim that the two countries have become more alike in recent decades as the US grows more liberal and Canada less parochial, but she admits the notion of 35 million new Democratic-leaning voters might prove a deal-breaker for many Republicans, as well as a few politicians north of the border.\u201cCanadians would act like a fabric softener for US politics,\u201d claims Francis, allowing reforms like universal healthcare to take root, while also providing a pressure valve for conservative Americans and Quebecois nationalists alike.In return, goes the argument, American conservatives could find allies in Alberta and the Arctic and help drive North American energy production, both fossil fuel and renewable, in ways that would make current arguments over the Keystone oil pipeline redundant.Nevertheless, Francis admitted her idea of Canada joining the US as a series of new federal states is mainly a polemic designed to draw attention to her more concrete proposals for economic integration.\u201cThe politics of this probably make a full union impossible,\u201d she conceded.\u201cAt best, my guess is that maybe we can get rid of the border and move towards the next step, which is a customs union.\u201dThe panel agreed, concluding that the thought experiment was a \u201cpolicy provocation\u201d pointing more to lessons that can be drawn from the European Union rather than, say, the unification of Germany.\u201cThere is a lot that America and Canada can learn from Europe, but even there the dream of a federal Europe has largely been replaced with one of greater co-operation,\u201d said Michael Geary, a Wilson Center fellow.\u201cWhile the European Union in its form today is not one I would recommend, aspects of the EU policy framework could benefit the Canadian American relationship.\u201dBut, conceded Geary, a book called \u201cEnhanced Co-operation\u201d might not sell as well as one called \u201cMerger of the Century\u201d.", "tags": ["Canada", "US news", "US politics", "US foreign policy", "US economy", "Business", "Nato"], "title": "US thinktank ponders: how about annexing Canada, eh?"},{"date": "2014-02-16T06:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It's cold, somewhere near -25C, but with the wind it feels more like -35C. My eyes keep tearing up, creating small rivers of saline that run down my cheeks and freeze solid; tiny icicles form on my eyelashes, threatening to weld my contact lenses to my corneas. This is winter in the Duchesnay region of Quebec, Canada's largest province, and I am driving a team of sled dogs across a landscape locked in a deep freeze.\"These are perfect conditions for the dogs,\" says Nicolas Clich\u00e9-Plourde, musher, guide and co-owner of Aventure Inukshuk, based half an hour from Quebec City. \"When the temperature drops below -25C, they run at their best; they are stronger and have more stamina.\"Nicolas is a burly, slightly serious fellow, but projects a quiet confidence. He knows all 28 of his dogs by name and temperament, and picks the best 14 from among the barking and howling chaos of the kennel. Even though he is only 25, he has a lifetime of experience among the province's forests, lakes and rivers. He is very Canadian that way.Canada is somewhat rare in the world: it's a modern, tech-savvy country with well-educated people occupying the planet's third-greatest landmass, but still one of the least densely populated countries on Earth. It is a country of vast emptiness and serious outdoor environments. Having read Jack London's White Fang and Call of the Wild as a teenager, I can't think of a better \u2013 or more privileged \u2013 way to experience it than being out in the wilds with only dogs and a guide.\"Hep, hep, hep,\" calls Nicolas, his command to get his team of dogs moving. A winter sun hangs low in the distance, giving only the illusion of warmth in the dense, snow-covered forest of silver birch, spruce and sugar maples, the source of Quebec's most famous export.The air has a slightly metallic smell, an odour most Canadians associate with the coming of snow. It's the first morning of a three-day 150km dog-sled trek and, despite being clad in a thick snowmobile suit and boots, I can feel the cold seeping between the stitching. The only solution is to get my team on the trail. But it takes about 90 minutes to get the dogs rounded up and hooked to the sleds; I have six, while Nicolas hooks up eight. They are all adrenaline: barking and howling, pulling at the harnesses, eager to go. Once we're off, they fall into an easy gait, mostly quiet with tongues dangling.Driving a dog sled is like a cross between skiing and surfing, with a little long-distance running thrown in for good measure. It looks easy: you stand on runners at the back of the sled and let the dogs do all the work. The reality is a little different. Keeping control of this mob of yapping, loping mutts \u2013 likened by Nicolas to a classroom of rowdy teenagers \u2013 is a matter of timing, gaining the respect of the dogs, and prudent use of the foot brake, arguably the most important skill. Hit the brake at the right time \u2013 just before a turn \u2013 and it's smooth sailing; hit the brake at the wrong time \u2013 as you make the turn \u2013 and it's almost impossible to control the sled. Add a little ice to the mix and all bets are off. This was the mistake I made \u2013 that and taking my eye off the team. A slight loss of concentration and the sled was being dragged along the snow without its driver. What this crash into the bush demonstrated is the almost symbiotic relationship between a musher and his dogs. Here, in modern Canada, getting truly separated from your dogs can be solved simply with a radio call and rescue but, in centuries past, it often meant death for both driver and dogs.The peoples of the north have used sled dogs for more than 3,000 years. However, it wasn't until the 19th and early 20th centuries that they became the stuff of legend. The Klondike gold rush in the 1890s put dog sledding on the map: everything that moved in the Yukon during the frozen season \u2013 prospectors, trappers, doctors, mail, commerce, trade \u2013 was moved by sled dogs. And then explorers Robert Falcon Scott and Roald Amundsen used sled dogs on their expeditions to the South Pole.Watching the dogs work is captivating. They are not as big as I imagined, and they are a lot stronger than they look, easily pulling my heavy sled over some very tricky terrain.\"It's all in the breeding,\" Nicolas tells me over hot chocolate that night. \"Our dogs are mostly mixed breeds, typically we use a mix of Alaskan or Siberian husky and greyhound. The husky genes give the dogs strength, stamina and ability to stand the cold, the greyhound adds speed.\"After four exhausting hours of half-running and half-riding, navigating tight trails, dodging low branches and trying to keep frostbite at bay, we finally reach our home for the next couple of days. The cabin is set deep in the woods, next to frozen Lake Maher. It's rustic, with a simple pitched roof, planks for walls, a plywood floor and wooden pallets for beds. There is only one room, where we cook, eat and sleep. The facilities are outside, a frozen outhouse and the forest are the only conveniences. When it's time to crawl into our sleeping bags, the table and benches are stacked up and stowed off to the side. Snow is piled high along the outside of the walls to help insulate us. A woodburning stove keeps the interior toasty but, with absolutely no mod cons, the only illumination comes from candles and head torches.As dusk falls, the dogs are settled, watered and fed; each gets a frozen block of meat twice a day, topped up with dog soup \u2013 a mixture of water and nutritious dog nuggets packed with protein and vitamins. They are mustered outside and tied to a static line among the trees; the occasional yelp reminds us they are out there.As we turn to our dinner \u2013 a simple, thick stew-like soup, crusty bread, salad and lots of hot chocolate \u2013 the day's effort starts to kick in. It's a little like going to the gym for the first time after months of idleness: you're sore and tired but satisfied.We wake to another frozen morning. At -30C, it's the coldest I've ever experienced; even Nicolas puts on, for the first time, a heavy coat. The cold slows everything down; it's like having molasses in your veins. But the dogs are awake and frisky. They know that there is more sledding ahead and they can't wait.Today is all about exploring our surroundings. There are wolves and moose nearby, but getting close enough to spot them is almost impossible. Our pack of noisy dogs makes sure of that. We do find plenty of tracks though, especially of snowshoe hares: their side-by-side footprints are often the only evidence of wildlife in this frozen environment.The next day we are joined by musher and guide Jonathan Goulet, who has been dropped off by a passing snowmobile, he will accompany us back to the main kennels. Good thing too. All that hammering on the brake for two days has made my right foot somewhat useless. Jonathan will take control of my sled, while I get the luxury of riding as a passenger. \"Do you want to ride like a tourist or a musher?\" he shouts over the dogs. He leaves me little time to answer and soon our team are flying down a hill more suited to alpine skiing.We emerge from the shadowy forest to a large expanse of blinding snow. Grey trees poke through the white sheet, making the scene look like a Dal\u00ed painting. By now the dogs are running flat out, grabbing mouthfuls of snow to cool down and defecating on the fly. We cover the last 30km in what feels like record time, arriving at the kennels as the sun casts long shadows. The worn out dogs roll in the snow to cool off. Though sad that my adventure in Quebec's wilderness has come to an end, I won't forget my team: Whisky at the front, Maikon and Pico \u2013 with the blue eyes \u2013 in the middle; strong Koho and Kioki at the back. And all of them in thrall to lead dog Luna, the indefatigable alpha female.\u2022 The trip was provided by Wexas Travel (020-7590 0622, wexas.com), which has a five-night package flying into Quebec City and out of Montreal, including three days' dog-sledding, car hire and flights, from \u00a31,795pp", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Extreme sports holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "Husky sledding in Canada: one man and his dogs"},{"date": "2014-01-17T20:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Alaska (not Texas as is often assumed) is the biggest state in the US. At more than 663,000 square miles, it could swallow England 10 times over. To put its white vastness into context, if New York had the same population density, there would be only 16 people living in Manhattan.Many people's image of the state is of an enormous, freezing wasteland. But Alaska's wealth is built on white gold \u2013 the powdery, tourist-pleasing kind that falls from the sky. And the savviest way to enjoy this stunning, vast state in all its rugged, frozen glory is by snowmobile. Several companies offer \"safaris\" into the frozen wilds on these snorting mechanical steeds, and Alaska's backcountry is perfect for long-distance snowmobiling.On a three-day trip from the state's biggest city, Anchorage, to the continent's highest peak, Mount McKinley, you ride through stunning Denali state park, from lodge to lodge. These hostels-cum-petrol stations punctuate the crisscrossing trails like border checkpoints, and you sleep in creaking wooden bunks. Perfect, bright days are spent learning to ride: using your body weight to turn and carve and jump. There's a knack to riding a snowmobile at speed: it's more like windsurfing or riding a horse than driving.Crossing deep, wide snow meadows beneath craggy, unnamed peaks at speeds of up to 80mph for hours on end brings an exhilarating, almost elemental sense of freedom. Then, when the engines cut, the silence is so perfect you can almost hear it. \u2022 Eight nights from \u00a32,965pp, including flights. Safaris run November-April. 020-7426 9888, blacktomato.co.ukIn the US's latest extreme sport, you can spend the night camped on the side of a sheer rock face hundreds of feet up as you contemplate the fragility of human existence. Or just enjoy the incredible views over the Rockies. Kent Mountain Adventure Center in Estes Park, Colorado, offers cliff camping from May-September. \u2022 Overnight trip $600 each for three people. +1 970 586 5990, kmaconline.com/cliff-camping-colorado. More information from colorado.comView the great metropolis from a new perspective: a surfboard. Check into the brand new Playland Motel in Rockaway Beach, Queens, the city's first notable beachfront hotel. It's a short walk from the newly renovated Boarders (boarderssurfshop.com), so rent some gear and hit some Big Apple barrels. \u2022 Two-hour lesson for two $115pp. +1 718 496 3371, surflessonsnewyork101.comCombine comfort with a bit of a challenge at Red Mountain Resort's new Essential Fitness Retreat. The resort is just two hours' drive from Las Vegas but a world away from the brashness of Sin City. Think mountain biking, trekking, rock climbing, horse riding and honest exercise against a stunning backdrop. As gambles go, it's a win-win. \u2022 A seven-night break at Red Mountain Resort costs from \u00a31,990pp, through Health and Fitness Travel (020-3397 8891, healthandfitnesstravel.com) including full board and flightsThe grey wolves of Yellowstone park were nearly wiped out before conservation began in the mid-1990s. A new trip with Exodus allows you to track the elusive creatures through magnificent park scenery. Binoculars in hand, you're accompanied by a biologist as you scour the Northern Range for wolves and other wildlife, from pronghorn antelopes to coyotes.\u2022 Seven days from \u00a32,849pp including flights and most meals, departs 15 March. 0845 863 9600, exodus.co.ukStorm chasing sees you hunting twisters down America's Tornado Alley, reacting to satellite data as you race across the vast plains of the Midwest. From a base in Oklahoma City or Denver, you'll spend six days speeding across a number of states, including Kansas, Nebraska, Iowa and the Dakotas, aiming for as many Tornado Alley strikes as possible. From your convoy, you'll enjoy a front-row seat for one of nature's most spectacular shows. \u2022 From $2,600 for early bookers, flights extra. Trips run early May to mid-June. +1 970 367 5395, stormchasing.comPack your favourite flannel shirt for a trip to the Adirondack Woodsmen's School in upper New York state. You'll sleep all night and work all day on this two-week beginners' course covering everything from fire building to axe swinging, chainsaw maintenance to war canoe construction. You'll not only be a master of dendrology by the end of the fortnight, but also have a physique that is seriously cut. Your \"classroom\" is at Paul Smith's College on the shore of the Lower St Regis Lake, high up in the Adirondacks. \u2022 $2,190pp for two weeks full board, flights extra. +1 518 327 6990, adirondackwoodsmensschool.com Between July and September hundreds of salmon swim up Canada's roaring Campbell river, returning to their mother stream to spawn. For a snorkelling experience like no other, try this trip with Beaver Aquatics, where you enter the water in a wetsuit, mask, snorkel and fins and watch the salmon as they leap upstream. You may also notice that you're floating through proper grizzly bear territory \u2013 during spawning season they're drawn to the water in anticipation of a salmon supper.\u2022 Four-hour gear hire from C$35, +1 250-287-7652 beaveraquatics.ca. More information from hellobc.com Paleo fans with deep pockets will love the new Walking With Dinosaurs: A Journey Through Time tour. Developed by BBC Earth insiders alongside leading paleontologists and natural historians, it will lead guests through the heart of Canada's dinosaur country, around the Badlands town of Drumheller. You'll visit dig sites, learn how the \"terrible lizards\" lived via a series of workshops and presentations, and even get to experiment with dinosaur animation and green screen technology.\u2022 C$3,190pp (\u00a31,772) for five days, including transfers from Calgary and most meals, from 17-21 July. 0800-961-834, tauck.co.uk/tours/canada-toursBanff national park is arguably the best waterfall-climbing destination on the planet. If you're new to crampons, there are plenty of beginners' routes around the outdoorsy town of Canmore, where you can sharpen your ice axe and your skills. For the more experienced, there are a number of stunning technical waterfall ascents. \u2022 Two-day basic ice-climbing course from C$325pp (\u00a3180) with Yamnuska Mountain Adventures (+1 403 678 4164, yamnuska.com) ", "tags": ["United States holidays", "Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Walking holidays", "Group trips"], "title": "Adventure holidays and trips for 2014: US and Canada"},{"date": "2014-01-10T21:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": " Good for total isolationSleeps 6 Cost from $2,100 a weekNorth Carolina's Outer Banks are a 200-mile string of barrier islands with vast, duney beaches and a population of native wild mustang horses that trot up and down the coast. But, for all the islands' serene scenery, places to stay are few and cluster around the southern part of the islands on the Cape Hatteras National Seashore. For more seclusion, you have to head around 100 miles north to Carova Beach, near the Virginia border. This house has a far-from-the-world feel \u2013 since there are no paved roads, you can only get there by driving a 4x4 along the beach. But once that's done, it's all quiet calm. The modular three-bedroom property has a retro 60s-style loft layout and three decks from which to watch the sun rise over the ocean. This really is one for people who want to be isolated as it's about an hour's drive to any semblance of a shop or restaurant.\u2022 No phone, cyberrentals.com/rental/p346278Good for couples or young familiesSleeps 4Cost from $2,900 a weekThis two-bedroom house in a gated community on a family-friendly beach seems made for living out sunny California fantasies. Montecito, 100\u00a0miles north of LA, is home to Oprah Winfrey and Ellen DeGeneres's beach retreats, and this house provides a taster of the good life: nautical, Cali-style interiors, great views, and the option of a private chef. lets the views speak for themselves; eEvery meal should be grilled and eaten on the wooden Pacific-facing deck. \u2022 +1 805 275 1851, paradiseretreats.comGood for large familiesSleeps 6 Cost from $2,300 a weekThis three-bedroom lodge has brick fireplaces, leather couches and eagles, loons and swallows flying between tall trees in its three-acre grounds. It's on Whidbey, a long, narrow island 30\u00a0miles north of Seattle, and has its own private stretch of pebbly sand abutting the ultra-calm Puget Sound. \u2022 +1 206 200 5851, soaringeaglelodgewhidbey.comGood for honeymoonersSleeps 2 Cost from $2,225 a weekIslamorada is a sleepy Florida Key between Key West and Miami. The island's motto may be \"eat, fish, sleep\", but even the seafood-shy can appreciate a romantic weekend at this bayside cottage. There's one cosy bedroom, indoor and outdoor kitchens and a long lawn that leads to a palmy beach shared with two other homes. Use the house's kayaks and snorkels to explore. \u2022 +1 352 598 6483, thebaysidecottages.com/cottages/the-bay-view-house Good for hearty families and groups of friends Sleeps 10Cost from $2,195 a weekIt may only be a 20-minute drive from Charleston, but Folly Beach's surf stores and pizza joints make it feel much further from the famously precious city. This stilted home's bright decor and bargain price attracts crews of surfers and swimmers. It's spacious and modern, with two porches for taking in the Atlantic views. While the screened-in lower deck is a godsend on mosquito-y summer evenings, the half-covered upper deck is a good sunbathing spot. \u2022 homeaway.com/vacation-rental/p3516923#summaryGood for surfing couplesSleeps 2 Cost from $2,023 a weekIn the cute historic town of Kailua Kona on the Big Island's west coast, this one-bedroom cottage sits on a narrow rocky shore. The beach is so narrow, in fact, that the views are almost like those from a boat. In January to early March, you can watch whales breaching from the master bedroom. It takes surfers just a few minutes to paddle from the back door to the break, and snorkellers can discover the\u00a0tropical fish and sea turtles that live\u00a0in the shallow end. This 50s cottage was recently redone, with shiny steel appliances, granite worktops and burnished hardwood floors, but it retains a hint of old Hawaii in gauzy curtains and teak and wicker furniture. \u2022 +1 714 357 6797, konamoanahale.comGood for hikers, bikers and scuba diversSleeps 6 Cost from $1,512 a weekA turn-of-the-century cottage two hours south of San Francisco, this place is perfect for outdoorsy types. It's just a\u00a0few feet from the pebbly Point Lobos Monastery Beach, a scuba diver's dream filled with rockfish, crabs, starfish and even a few sea otters.It's also close to hiking trails beloved by photographer Ansel Adams for their cypress groves and views of the Monterey peninsula. \u2022 No phone, gogobot.comGood for hippies with styleSleeps 6 Cost from $3,150 a weekMontauk's 80s-style motels may be succumbing to a slew of hipster-friendly resorts, but there's still at least one interesting place to stay in Long Island's coolest beach town \u2013 this three-bedroom house with its retro touches, open-shelved kitchen and tribal-style prints on the walls. The back garden has a firepit and access to Ford Pond (strictly, this is a lake beach house), ideal for stand-up paddleboarding. You might even make it to Surf Lodge or Montauk Manor, one of the two hotels across the lake. \u2022 no phone, airbnb.co.uk/rooms/1027802Good for extended familiesSleeps 10Cost from $2,800 a weekMake like the Kennedys at this old-school New England home on the shores of saltwater Lake Tashmoo: think bunting, quilts, white wicker rocking chairs and a big American flag on a pole on the beach. With its small waves and plentiful seashells, the home's private beach is ideal for children. \u2022 No phone, vacationrentals.com, property 122410haGood for family partiesSleeps 8 (12 with two sofabeds)Cost from \u00a31,120 a weekSome of Canada's best beaches are on Prince Edward Island, off Nova Scotia, where the weather's warmer than you'd expect for such a northerly location. This house comes with a lobster cooker and a double kayak, which tells you something about the area's attractions \u2013 flat expanses of water, excellent seafood and clam-digging practically from the front porch. It looks expensive at first glance, but for 12 of your nearest and dearest it works out at quite a steal. \u2022 +1 888 611 3908, sandspitbeachhouse.com", "tags": ["Beach holidays", "United States holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Self-catering", "Canada holidays", "Summer holidays", "Family holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel"], "title": "Top 100 holiday beach houses: US and Canada"},{"date": "2014-03-20T20:22:34Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ted Baker hailed its transformation into a \"global lifestyle brand\" as the eccentric fashion label revealed strong sales growth in North America, Asia and Europe.Ray Kelvin, founder and chief executive of the group, said the brand had performed well online and in stores around the world. \"We've been designing the right product. It's a very simple formula.\"The brand, which has 362 stores and concessions as far afield as China, Japan and Canada, said sales rose more than a quarter to \u00a3322m while pre-tax profits rose 35% to \u00a339m.Growth was particularly strong in the US and Canada, up 38%, as the company said its brand had gained recognition by opening an outlet on New York's Fifth Avenue. Sales continued to power ahead in Britain where the group opened a new store at Gatwick airport and rebuilt its website, helping drive a 51% rise in online sales across Europe.Kelvin, who launched the label as a shirt store in Glasgow, said the new online platform would help Ted Baker open internet stores around the world with plans to launch in Australia this year. \"Its efficient, quick and easy to use,\" he said.He said the pace of high street store openings would slow as Ted Baker got existing outlets \"motoring\".\"It's just getting good,\" he said. \"We started the year very well. [The economy] has been tough but I think its getting better and we are cautiously confident.\"", "tags": ["Retail industry", "Fashion industry", "Business", "Fashion"], "title": "Ted Baker reports burgeoning sales in US and Canada"},{"date": "2014-03-19T19:27:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Vladimir Putin may have taken Crimea for Russia, but in Washington on Wednesday the talk was of US annexation of Canada \u2013 all 4m square miles of it.That at least was the \u201cthought experiment\u201d conducted by the Woodrow Wilson Center, a prestigious DC thinktank, which hosted a debate featuring the author of a book advocating political union of the two North American neighbours.Diane Francis, a conservative Canadian newspaper columnist with dual US citizenship, says her call for the \u201cmerger of the century\u201d has been listened to more seriously south of the border where she claims to have received complimentary letters from Hillary Clinton and Jeb Bush.\u201cIn Canada, people are horrified,\u201d admitted Francis, before discussing how its 13 provinces and territories could become US states \u2013 but why Quebec might instead choose to become a semi-independent commonwealth, \u201ca bit like Puerto Rico\u201d.Though few, if any, of those on Wilson\u2019s panel of experts believed it could ever happen, the whimsical nature of their debate belied more serious discussion of the merits of European-style border reform and growing talk of greater economic integration even among North American political leaders.At a summit in Mexico last month celebrating the 20th anniversary of the North American Free Trade Agreement, Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper and US and Mexican presidents Barack Obama and Enrique Pe\u00f1a Nieto all urged regional trade harmonisation as a counterweight to China and agreed on a new fast-track border scheme for \u201ctrusted\u201d travellers.Francis simply argues that Canada could travel much faster down this route than Mexico.\u201cI think we are already merging,\u201d she said at Wednesday\u2019s debate. \u201cWe should just get on with it and take away the border. My solution to fixing the border problem is just to get rid of it.\u201dHer thesis rests partly on the claim that the two countries have become more alike in recent decades as the US grows more liberal and Canada less parochial, but she admits the notion of 35 million new Democratic-leaning voters might prove a deal-breaker for many Republicans, as well as a few politicians north of the border.\u201cCanadians would act like a fabric softener for US politics,\u201d claims Francis, allowing reforms like universal healthcare to take root, while also providing a pressure valve for conservative Americans and Quebecois nationalists alike.In return, goes the argument, American conservatives could find allies in Alberta and the Arctic and help drive North American energy production, both fossil fuel and renewable, in ways that would make current arguments over the Keystone oil pipeline redundant.Nevertheless, Francis admitted her idea of Canada joining the US as a series of new federal states is mainly a polemic designed to draw attention to her more concrete proposals for economic integration.\u201cThe politics of this probably make a full union impossible,\u201d she conceded.\u201cAt best, my guess is that maybe we can get rid of the border and move towards the next step, which is a customs union.\u201dThe panel agreed, concluding that the thought experiment was a \u201cpolicy provocation\u201d pointing more to lessons that can be drawn from the European Union rather than, say, the unification of Germany.\u201cThere is a lot that America and Canada can learn from Europe, but even there the dream of a federal Europe has largely been replaced with one of greater co-operation,\u201d said Michael Geary, a Wilson Center fellow.\u201cWhile the European Union in its form today is not one I would recommend, aspects of the EU policy framework could benefit the Canadian American relationship.\u201dBut, conceded Geary, a book called \u201cEnhanced Co-operation\u201d might not sell as well as one called \u201cMerger of the Century\u201d.", "tags": ["Canada", "US news", "US politics", "US foreign policy", "US economy", "Business", "Nato"], "title": "US thinktank ponders: how about annexing Canada, eh?"},{"date": "2014-02-16T06:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It's cold, somewhere near -25C, but with the wind it feels more like -35C. My eyes keep tearing up, creating small rivers of saline that run down my cheeks and freeze solid; tiny icicles form on my eyelashes, threatening to weld my contact lenses to my corneas. This is winter in the Duchesnay region of Quebec, Canada's largest province, and I am driving a team of sled dogs across a landscape locked in a deep freeze.\"These are perfect conditions for the dogs,\" says Nicolas Clich\u00e9-Plourde, musher, guide and co-owner of Aventure Inukshuk, based half an hour from Quebec City. \"When the temperature drops below -25C, they run at their best; they are stronger and have more stamina.\"Nicolas is a burly, slightly serious fellow, but projects a quiet confidence. He knows all 28 of his dogs by name and temperament, and picks the best 14 from among the barking and howling chaos of the kennel. Even though he is only 25, he has a lifetime of experience among the province's forests, lakes and rivers. He is very Canadian that way.Canada is somewhat rare in the world: it's a modern, tech-savvy country with well-educated people occupying the planet's third-greatest landmass, but still one of the least densely populated countries on Earth. It is a country of vast emptiness and serious outdoor environments. Having read Jack London's White Fang and Call of the Wild as a teenager, I can't think of a better \u2013 or more privileged \u2013 way to experience it than being out in the wilds with only dogs and a guide.\"Hep, hep, hep,\" calls Nicolas, his command to get his team of dogs moving. A winter sun hangs low in the distance, giving only the illusion of warmth in the dense, snow-covered forest of silver birch, spruce and sugar maples, the source of Quebec's most famous export.The air has a slightly metallic smell, an odour most Canadians associate with the coming of snow. It's the first morning of a three-day 150km dog-sled trek and, despite being clad in a thick snowmobile suit and boots, I can feel the cold seeping between the stitching. The only solution is to get my team on the trail. But it takes about 90 minutes to get the dogs rounded up and hooked to the sleds; I have six, while Nicolas hooks up eight. They are all adrenaline: barking and howling, pulling at the harnesses, eager to go. Once we're off, they fall into an easy gait, mostly quiet with tongues dangling.Driving a dog sled is like a cross between skiing and surfing, with a little long-distance running thrown in for good measure. It looks easy: you stand on runners at the back of the sled and let the dogs do all the work. The reality is a little different. Keeping control of this mob of yapping, loping mutts \u2013 likened by Nicolas to a classroom of rowdy teenagers \u2013 is a matter of timing, gaining the respect of the dogs, and prudent use of the foot brake, arguably the most important skill. Hit the brake at the right time \u2013 just before a turn \u2013 and it's smooth sailing; hit the brake at the wrong time \u2013 as you make the turn \u2013 and it's almost impossible to control the sled. Add a little ice to the mix and all bets are off. This was the mistake I made \u2013 that and taking my eye off the team. A slight loss of concentration and the sled was being dragged along the snow without its driver. What this crash into the bush demonstrated is the almost symbiotic relationship between a musher and his dogs. Here, in modern Canada, getting truly separated from your dogs can be solved simply with a radio call and rescue but, in centuries past, it often meant death for both driver and dogs.The peoples of the north have used sled dogs for more than 3,000 years. However, it wasn't until the 19th and early 20th centuries that they became the stuff of legend. The Klondike gold rush in the 1890s put dog sledding on the map: everything that moved in the Yukon during the frozen season \u2013 prospectors, trappers, doctors, mail, commerce, trade \u2013 was moved by sled dogs. And then explorers Robert Falcon Scott and Roald Amundsen used sled dogs on their expeditions to the South Pole.Watching the dogs work is captivating. They are not as big as I imagined, and they are a lot stronger than they look, easily pulling my heavy sled over some very tricky terrain.\"It's all in the breeding,\" Nicolas tells me over hot chocolate that night. \"Our dogs are mostly mixed breeds, typically we use a mix of Alaskan or Siberian husky and greyhound. The husky genes give the dogs strength, stamina and ability to stand the cold, the greyhound adds speed.\"After four exhausting hours of half-running and half-riding, navigating tight trails, dodging low branches and trying to keep frostbite at bay, we finally reach our home for the next couple of days. The cabin is set deep in the woods, next to frozen Lake Maher. It's rustic, with a simple pitched roof, planks for walls, a plywood floor and wooden pallets for beds. There is only one room, where we cook, eat and sleep. The facilities are outside, a frozen outhouse and the forest are the only conveniences. When it's time to crawl into our sleeping bags, the table and benches are stacked up and stowed off to the side. Snow is piled high along the outside of the walls to help insulate us. A woodburning stove keeps the interior toasty but, with absolutely no mod cons, the only illumination comes from candles and head torches.As dusk falls, the dogs are settled, watered and fed; each gets a frozen block of meat twice a day, topped up with dog soup \u2013 a mixture of water and nutritious dog nuggets packed with protein and vitamins. They are mustered outside and tied to a static line among the trees; the occasional yelp reminds us they are out there.As we turn to our dinner \u2013 a simple, thick stew-like soup, crusty bread, salad and lots of hot chocolate \u2013 the day's effort starts to kick in. It's a little like going to the gym for the first time after months of idleness: you're sore and tired but satisfied.We wake to another frozen morning. At -30C, it's the coldest I've ever experienced; even Nicolas puts on, for the first time, a heavy coat. The cold slows everything down; it's like having molasses in your veins. But the dogs are awake and frisky. They know that there is more sledding ahead and they can't wait.Today is all about exploring our surroundings. There are wolves and moose nearby, but getting close enough to spot them is almost impossible. Our pack of noisy dogs makes sure of that. We do find plenty of tracks though, especially of snowshoe hares: their side-by-side footprints are often the only evidence of wildlife in this frozen environment.The next day we are joined by musher and guide Jonathan Goulet, who has been dropped off by a passing snowmobile, he will accompany us back to the main kennels. Good thing too. All that hammering on the brake for two days has made my right foot somewhat useless. Jonathan will take control of my sled, while I get the luxury of riding as a passenger. \"Do you want to ride like a tourist or a musher?\" he shouts over the dogs. He leaves me little time to answer and soon our team are flying down a hill more suited to alpine skiing.We emerge from the shadowy forest to a large expanse of blinding snow. Grey trees poke through the white sheet, making the scene look like a Dal\u00ed painting. By now the dogs are running flat out, grabbing mouthfuls of snow to cool down and defecating on the fly. We cover the last 30km in what feels like record time, arriving at the kennels as the sun casts long shadows. The worn out dogs roll in the snow to cool off. Though sad that my adventure in Quebec's wilderness has come to an end, I won't forget my team: Whisky at the front, Maikon and Pico \u2013 with the blue eyes \u2013 in the middle; strong Koho and Kioki at the back. And all of them in thrall to lead dog Luna, the indefatigable alpha female.\u2022 The trip was provided by Wexas Travel (020-7590 0622, wexas.com), which has a five-night package flying into Quebec City and out of Montreal, including three days' dog-sledding, car hire and flights, from \u00a31,795pp", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Winter sports holidays", "Extreme sports holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel"], "title": "Husky sledding in Canada: one man and his dogs"},{"date": "2014-01-17T20:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Alaska (not Texas as is often assumed) is the biggest state in the US. At more than 663,000 square miles, it could swallow England 10 times over. To put its white vastness into context, if New York had the same population density, there would be only 16 people living in Manhattan.Many people's image of the state is of an enormous, freezing wasteland. But Alaska's wealth is built on white gold \u2013 the powdery, tourist-pleasing kind that falls from the sky. And the savviest way to enjoy this stunning, vast state in all its rugged, frozen glory is by snowmobile. Several companies offer \"safaris\" into the frozen wilds on these snorting mechanical steeds, and Alaska's backcountry is perfect for long-distance snowmobiling.On a three-day trip from the state's biggest city, Anchorage, to the continent's highest peak, Mount McKinley, you ride through stunning Denali state park, from lodge to lodge. These hostels-cum-petrol stations punctuate the crisscrossing trails like border checkpoints, and you sleep in creaking wooden bunks. Perfect, bright days are spent learning to ride: using your body weight to turn and carve and jump. There's a knack to riding a snowmobile at speed: it's more like windsurfing or riding a horse than driving.Crossing deep, wide snow meadows beneath craggy, unnamed peaks at speeds of up to 80mph for hours on end brings an exhilarating, almost elemental sense of freedom. Then, when the engines cut, the silence is so perfect you can almost hear it. \u2022 Eight nights from \u00a32,965pp, including flights. Safaris run November-April. 020-7426 9888, blacktomato.co.ukIn the US's latest extreme sport, you can spend the night camped on the side of a sheer rock face hundreds of feet up as you contemplate the fragility of human existence. Or just enjoy the incredible views over the Rockies. Kent Mountain Adventure Center in Estes Park, Colorado, offers cliff camping from May-September. \u2022 Overnight trip $600 each for three people. +1 970 586 5990, kmaconline.com/cliff-camping-colorado. More information from colorado.comView the great metropolis from a new perspective: a surfboard. Check into the brand new Playland Motel in Rockaway Beach, Queens, the city's first notable beachfront hotel. It's a short walk from the newly renovated Boarders (boarderssurfshop.com), so rent some gear and hit some Big Apple barrels. \u2022 Two-hour lesson for two $115pp. +1 718 496 3371, surflessonsnewyork101.comCombine comfort with a bit of a challenge at Red Mountain Resort's new Essential Fitness Retreat. The resort is just two hours' drive from Las Vegas but a world away from the brashness of Sin City. Think mountain biking, trekking, rock climbing, horse riding and honest exercise against a stunning backdrop. As gambles go, it's a win-win. \u2022 A seven-night break at Red Mountain Resort costs from \u00a31,990pp, through Health and Fitness Travel (020-3397 8891, healthandfitnesstravel.com) including full board and flightsThe grey wolves of Yellowstone park were nearly wiped out before conservation began in the mid-1990s. A new trip with Exodus allows you to track the elusive creatures through magnificent park scenery. Binoculars in hand, you're accompanied by a biologist as you scour the Northern Range for wolves and other wildlife, from pronghorn antelopes to coyotes.\u2022 Seven days from \u00a32,849pp including flights and most meals, departs 15 March. 0845 863 9600, exodus.co.ukStorm chasing sees you hunting twisters down America's Tornado Alley, reacting to satellite data as you race across the vast plains of the Midwest. From a base in Oklahoma City or Denver, you'll spend six days speeding across a number of states, including Kansas, Nebraska, Iowa and the Dakotas, aiming for as many Tornado Alley strikes as possible. From your convoy, you'll enjoy a front-row seat for one of nature's most spectacular shows. \u2022 From $2,600 for early bookers, flights extra. Trips run early May to mid-June. +1 970 367 5395, stormchasing.comPack your favourite flannel shirt for a trip to the Adirondack Woodsmen's School in upper New York state. You'll sleep all night and work all day on this two-week beginners' course covering everything from fire building to axe swinging, chainsaw maintenance to war canoe construction. You'll not only be a master of dendrology by the end of the fortnight, but also have a physique that is seriously cut. Your \"classroom\" is at Paul Smith's College on the shore of the Lower St Regis Lake, high up in the Adirondacks. \u2022 $2,190pp for two weeks full board, flights extra. +1 518 327 6990, adirondackwoodsmensschool.com Between July and September hundreds of salmon swim up Canada's roaring Campbell river, returning to their mother stream to spawn. For a snorkelling experience like no other, try this trip with Beaver Aquatics, where you enter the water in a wetsuit, mask, snorkel and fins and watch the salmon as they leap upstream. You may also notice that you're floating through proper grizzly bear territory \u2013 during spawning season they're drawn to the water in anticipation of a salmon supper.\u2022 Four-hour gear hire from C$35, +1 250-287-7652 beaveraquatics.ca. More information from hellobc.com Paleo fans with deep pockets will love the new Walking With Dinosaurs: A Journey Through Time tour. Developed by BBC Earth insiders alongside leading paleontologists and natural historians, it will lead guests through the heart of Canada's dinosaur country, around the Badlands town of Drumheller. You'll visit dig sites, learn how the \"terrible lizards\" lived via a series of workshops and presentations, and even get to experiment with dinosaur animation and green screen technology.\u2022 C$3,190pp (\u00a31,772) for five days, including transfers from Calgary and most meals, from 17-21 July. 0800-961-834, tauck.co.uk/tours/canada-toursBanff national park is arguably the best waterfall-climbing destination on the planet. If you're new to crampons, there are plenty of beginners' routes around the outdoorsy town of Canmore, where you can sharpen your ice axe and your skills. For the more experienced, there are a number of stunning technical waterfall ascents. \u2022 Two-day basic ice-climbing course from C$325pp (\u00a3180) with Yamnuska Mountain Adventures (+1 403 678 4164, yamnuska.com) ", "tags": ["United States holidays", "Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Adventure travel", "Travel", "Family holidays", "Walking holidays", "Group trips"], "title": "Adventure holidays and trips for 2014: US and Canada"},{"date": "2014-01-10T21:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": " Good for total isolationSleeps 6 Cost from $2,100 a weekNorth Carolina's Outer Banks are a 200-mile string of barrier islands with vast, duney beaches and a population of native wild mustang horses that trot up and down the coast. But, for all the islands' serene scenery, places to stay are few and cluster around the southern part of the islands on the Cape Hatteras National Seashore. For more seclusion, you have to head around 100 miles north to Carova Beach, near the Virginia border. This house has a far-from-the-world feel \u2013 since there are no paved roads, you can only get there by driving a 4x4 along the beach. But once that's done, it's all quiet calm. The modular three-bedroom property has a retro 60s-style loft layout and three decks from which to watch the sun rise over the ocean. This really is one for people who want to be isolated as it's about an hour's drive to any semblance of a shop or restaurant.\u2022 No phone, cyberrentals.com/rental/p346278Good for couples or young familiesSleeps 4Cost from $2,900 a weekThis two-bedroom house in a gated community on a family-friendly beach seems made for living out sunny California fantasies. Montecito, 100\u00a0miles north of LA, is home to Oprah Winfrey and Ellen DeGeneres's beach retreats, and this house provides a taster of the good life: nautical, Cali-style interiors, great views, and the option of a private chef. lets the views speak for themselves; eEvery meal should be grilled and eaten on the wooden Pacific-facing deck. \u2022 +1 805 275 1851, paradiseretreats.comGood for large familiesSleeps 6 Cost from $2,300 a weekThis three-bedroom lodge has brick fireplaces, leather couches and eagles, loons and swallows flying between tall trees in its three-acre grounds. It's on Whidbey, a long, narrow island 30\u00a0miles north of Seattle, and has its own private stretch of pebbly sand abutting the ultra-calm Puget Sound. \u2022 +1 206 200 5851, soaringeaglelodgewhidbey.comGood for honeymoonersSleeps 2 Cost from $2,225 a weekIslamorada is a sleepy Florida Key between Key West and Miami. The island's motto may be \"eat, fish, sleep\", but even the seafood-shy can appreciate a romantic weekend at this bayside cottage. There's one cosy bedroom, indoor and outdoor kitchens and a long lawn that leads to a palmy beach shared with two other homes. Use the house's kayaks and snorkels to explore. \u2022 +1 352 598 6483, thebaysidecottages.com/cottages/the-bay-view-house Good for hearty families and groups of friends Sleeps 10Cost from $2,195 a weekIt may only be a 20-minute drive from Charleston, but Folly Beach's surf stores and pizza joints make it feel much further from the famously precious city. This stilted home's bright decor and bargain price attracts crews of surfers and swimmers. It's spacious and modern, with two porches for taking in the Atlantic views. While the screened-in lower deck is a godsend on mosquito-y summer evenings, the half-covered upper deck is a good sunbathing spot. \u2022 homeaway.com/vacation-rental/p3516923#summaryGood for surfing couplesSleeps 2 Cost from $2,023 a weekIn the cute historic town of Kailua Kona on the Big Island's west coast, this one-bedroom cottage sits on a narrow rocky shore. The beach is so narrow, in fact, that the views are almost like those from a boat. In January to early March, you can watch whales breaching from the master bedroom. It takes surfers just a few minutes to paddle from the back door to the break, and snorkellers can discover the\u00a0tropical fish and sea turtles that live\u00a0in the shallow end. This 50s cottage was recently redone, with shiny steel appliances, granite worktops and burnished hardwood floors, but it retains a hint of old Hawaii in gauzy curtains and teak and wicker furniture. \u2022 +1 714 357 6797, konamoanahale.comGood for hikers, bikers and scuba diversSleeps 6 Cost from $1,512 a weekA turn-of-the-century cottage two hours south of San Francisco, this place is perfect for outdoorsy types. It's just a\u00a0few feet from the pebbly Point Lobos Monastery Beach, a scuba diver's dream filled with rockfish, crabs, starfish and even a few sea otters.It's also close to hiking trails beloved by photographer Ansel Adams for their cypress groves and views of the Monterey peninsula. \u2022 No phone, gogobot.comGood for hippies with styleSleeps 6 Cost from $3,150 a weekMontauk's 80s-style motels may be succumbing to a slew of hipster-friendly resorts, but there's still at least one interesting place to stay in Long Island's coolest beach town \u2013 this three-bedroom house with its retro touches, open-shelved kitchen and tribal-style prints on the walls. The back garden has a firepit and access to Ford Pond (strictly, this is a lake beach house), ideal for stand-up paddleboarding. You might even make it to Surf Lodge or Montauk Manor, one of the two hotels across the lake. \u2022 no phone, airbnb.co.uk/rooms/1027802Good for extended familiesSleeps 10Cost from $2,800 a weekMake like the Kennedys at this old-school New England home on the shores of saltwater Lake Tashmoo: think bunting, quilts, white wicker rocking chairs and a big American flag on a pole on the beach. With its small waves and plentiful seashells, the home's private beach is ideal for children. \u2022 No phone, vacationrentals.com, property 122410haGood for family partiesSleeps 8 (12 with two sofabeds)Cost from \u00a31,120 a weekSome of Canada's best beaches are on Prince Edward Island, off Nova Scotia, where the weather's warmer than you'd expect for such a northerly location. This house comes with a lobster cooker and a double kayak, which tells you something about the area's attractions \u2013 flat expanses of water, excellent seafood and clam-digging practically from the front porch. It looks expensive at first glance, but for 12 of your nearest and dearest it works out at quite a steal. \u2022 +1 888 611 3908, sandspitbeachhouse.com", "tags": ["Beach holidays", "United States holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Self-catering", "Canada holidays", "Summer holidays", "Family holidays", "Top 10s", "Travel"], "title": "Top 100 holiday beach houses: US and Canada"},{"date": "2014-01-10T15:28:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "How do you defuse an international literary incident? Well, for Gary Shteyngart it seems the answer is just to keep on cracking jokes.Things started getting heated north of the 49th parallel when the entertainment website Vulture asked the novelist if fiction writers should be subsidised.\"Let me say this,\" Shteyngart said. \"I was the judge of a Canadian prize, and it's subsidised, they all get grants. Out of a million entries, we found four or five really good ones, but people just don't take the same damn risks! Maybe they want to please the Ontario Arts Council, or whatever it is.\"Cue anguished responses from Canadian literati. \"What an odd, I will say ignorant, thing to say about Canadian literature, especially at this time!\" Dorris Heffron, chair of the Writers' Union of Canada, told the Toronto Star. \"These days, only a small percentage of Canadian writers get grants. Canadian literature is diverse in styles and content. Some of it attacks government and all kinds of authorities.\" And Giller prize winner Lynn Coady, author of Hellgoing, called it \"a lazy fallacy to suggest we 'all get grants'\".No one seems all that bothered, with Coady later saying she has already forgiven Shteyngart for \"talking smack about Canadian writing\" and suggesting Canadians should \"thicken our skins and move on\". Shteyngart has been carrying out a wry mea culpa via Twitter, regardless. He was drunk, apparently.\"Canadians, I was kidding about your literary non-edginess. As a nation that's home to both A Munro and Rob Ford, you contain multitudes,\" he tweeted. \"What I was really trying to say to the reporter is that Canada's a glorious faraway country which we all love. #drunkenstupor\", and \"Like a fresh crack rock in a mayor's drawer, CanLit captures and refracts the beauty of the nation around it. There! I've blurbed CanLit!\"It's been a while since our World Literature Tour went to Canada, so perhaps a little refresher on what Shteyngart has dubbed \"the edgiest writers north of the US!\" is due. Margaret Atwood's MaddAddam is my most recent dabble in CanLit, and one I enjoyed immensely. I'm hoping you can point me in the direction of the latest Canuck edginess, grant-funded or otherwise. All hail the \"True North strong and free\".", "tags": ["Gary Shteyngart", "Books", "Canada", "Americas", "Fiction", "Awards and prizes", "Culture"], "title": "O Canada! American author sparks war of words"},{"date": "2014-06-10T23:19:15Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Just after noon Ottawa time Monday, the pool reporter who\u2019d been permitted access to the photo op in prime minister Stephen Harper\u2019s second floor office on Parliament Hill sent his report down the wire. Under different circumstances, it all might have provided inspiration for a haiku. As it was, the pool report reflected something else.\u201cBoth leaders were seated when reporters arrived in the room,\u201d the pool reporter noted. \u201cThey stood, shook hands and Harper welcomed Abbott to Ottawa. Abbott said nothing.\u201d Then they sat down again. Then reporters were escorted away. A confounding scene to the rest of the world, perhaps, but as a lesson from political message makers on how to create nothing out of something, it was total perfection. They're getting quite good at it.Harper was first to speak again in front of TV cameras and the rest of the journalists who hadn\u2019t been invited to the one-act play upstairs earlier. He quickly commended Abbott (erroneously) for eliminating the \u201cjob-killing carbon tax.\u201d Abbott, when given the chance, commented on how Canada and Australia are both \u201cresource-driven nations\u201d. With such commonalities, it was no surprise to hear a question on climate change came. What did both leaders think of US president Barack Obama\u2019s new plans to reduce carbon emissions?They were equally strident in their replies. Climate change is a \u201csignificant problem,\u201d Abbott said, but it\u2019s \u201cnot the only or even the most important\u201d one the world faces. Harper delivered a fact check, as he saw it. Obama\u2019s proposals \u201cdo not go nearly far enough in the electricity sector as the actions Canada has already taken.\u201d And, Harper added, no matter what they say, \u201cno country is going to take actions on climate change ... that are going to deliberately destroy jobs.\u201dIt\u2019s true that Canada has put in place regulations for coal-fired electricity plants, and the claim is that by 2030, they\u2019ll reduce emissions by 46% from 2005 levels. Obama, by contrast, has only promised a 30% reduction. However, it\u2019s also true that electricity generation is responsible for only 12% of Canada\u2019s greenhouse gas emissions, of which coal contributes a small portion thanks to hydro-electric plants. In the US, electricity accounts for 39% of emissions \u2013 and 75% of that is contributed by coal. It\u2019s further the case that Canada will only get halfway to the targets it agreed to in Copenhagen, and has yet to truly tackle emissions from its oil and gas industry, which accounts for approximately 25% of its emissions. In the context of the fantastical, zero-sum choice between action on climate change and jobs, Harper was being entirely truthful: Canada has chosen jobs, whatever that means.But then we\u2019re into a debate. Which wasn\u2019t the point Monday.In the days following Obama\u2019s announcement, Canada\u2019s environment minister supplied a line just like the one issued by Harper. \u201cWe are pleased the United States is following in Canada\u2019s footsteps,\u201d Leona Aglukkaq told the House of Commons the same day Obama launched his so-called war on coal. \u201cWe welcome the movement in the United States to regulate greenhouse gas emissions,\u201d she said a few days later. On Monday, a similar tone could be heard from Harper\u2019s Australian counterpart. \u201cI am encouraged that president Obama is taking what I would regard as direct action measures to reduce emissions,\u201d Abbott said. \u201cThis is very similar to the actions that my government proposes to take in Australia.\u201dThe US move on emissions was a big deal, wasn\u2019t it? This was a huge decision from such a big ally to two resource-reliable nations, right? There was a story for the reporters in the room, wasn't there? One might have thought so. But listening to Harper and Abbott, the message instead was much as it was upstairs in front of the pool reporter: that the big something that clearly happened in Washington was a non-story, an un-event not worth talking about. Something that was nothing at all.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Stephen Harper", "Climate change", "Environment", "Business"], "title": "Tony Abbott in Canada: the climate bromance continues | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2014-06-10T23:19:15Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Just after noon Ottawa time Monday, the pool reporter who\u2019d been permitted access to the photo op in prime minister Stephen Harper\u2019s second floor office on Parliament Hill sent his report down the wire. Under different circumstances, it all might have provided inspiration for a haiku. As it was, the pool report reflected something else.\u201cBoth leaders were seated when reporters arrived in the room,\u201d the pool reporter noted. \u201cThey stood, shook hands and Harper welcomed Abbott to Ottawa. Abbott said nothing.\u201d Then they sat down again. Then reporters were escorted away. A confounding scene to the rest of the world, perhaps, but as a lesson from political message makers on how to create nothing out of something, it was total perfection. They're getting quite good at it.Harper was first to speak again in front of TV cameras and the rest of the journalists who hadn\u2019t been invited to the one-act play upstairs earlier. He quickly commended Abbott (erroneously) for eliminating the \u201cjob-killing carbon tax.\u201d Abbott, when given the chance, commented on how Canada and Australia are both \u201cresource-driven nations\u201d. With such commonalities, it was no surprise to hear a question on climate change came. What did both leaders think of US president Barack Obama\u2019s new plans to reduce carbon emissions?They were equally strident in their replies. Climate change is a \u201csignificant problem,\u201d Abbott said, but it\u2019s \u201cnot the only or even the most important\u201d one the world faces. Harper delivered a fact check, as he saw it. Obama\u2019s proposals \u201cdo not go nearly far enough in the electricity sector as the actions Canada has already taken.\u201d And, Harper added, no matter what they say, \u201cno country is going to take actions on climate change ... that are going to deliberately destroy jobs.\u201dIt\u2019s true that Canada has put in place regulations for coal-fired electricity plants, and the claim is that by 2030, they\u2019ll reduce emissions by 46% from 2005 levels. Obama, by contrast, has only promised a 30% reduction. However, it\u2019s also true that electricity generation is responsible for only 12% of Canada\u2019s greenhouse gas emissions, of which coal contributes a small portion thanks to hydro-electric plants. In the US, electricity accounts for 39% of emissions \u2013 and 75% of that is contributed by coal. It\u2019s further the case that Canada will only get halfway to the targets it agreed to in Copenhagen, and has yet to truly tackle emissions from its oil and gas industry, which accounts for approximately 25% of its emissions. In the context of the fantastical, zero-sum choice between action on climate change and jobs, Harper was being entirely truthful: Canada has chosen jobs, whatever that means.But then we\u2019re into a debate. Which wasn\u2019t the point Monday.In the days following Obama\u2019s announcement, Canada\u2019s environment minister supplied a line just like the one issued by Harper. \u201cWe are pleased the United States is following in Canada\u2019s footsteps,\u201d Leona Aglukkaq told the House of Commons the same day Obama launched his so-called war on coal. \u201cWe welcome the movement in the United States to regulate greenhouse gas emissions,\u201d she said a few days later. On Monday, a similar tone could be heard from Harper\u2019s Australian counterpart. \u201cI am encouraged that president Obama is taking what I would regard as direct action measures to reduce emissions,\u201d Abbott said. \u201cThis is very similar to the actions that my government proposes to take in Australia.\u201dThe US move on emissions was a big deal, wasn\u2019t it? This was a huge decision from such a big ally to two resource-reliable nations, right? There was a story for the reporters in the room, wasn't there? One might have thought so. But listening to Harper and Abbott, the message instead was much as it was upstairs in front of the pool reporter: that the big something that clearly happened in Washington was a non-story, an un-event not worth talking about. Something that was nothing at all.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Stephen Harper", "Climate change", "Environment", "Business"], "title": "Tony Abbott in Canada: the climate bromance continues | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2014-06-05T12:39:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canadian police on Thursday mounted a massive hunt for a 24-year-old gunman they suspect shot dead three officers in one of the worst losses of life for the country's national force in a decade.Police cordoned off a large area in the northwest of Moncton, New Brunswick, and ordered city residents to stay inside as officers searched for a suspect named on the Royal Canadian Mounted Police's Twitter feed as Justin Bourque of Moncton, who was considered armed and dangerous.Local media in Moncton published a photograph of a man in camouflage clothing and a black headband carrying a rifle.If you live in the marked area stay inside / lock doors. Roads blocked. Traffic disrupted. Avoid area #Codiac #RCMPNB http://t.co/Oqz389LqTlThe RCMP have been hunting Bourque after three officers were killed late on Wednesday and two more were taken to hospital with non-life threatening injuries.A large blue armoured police truck entered the cordoned off area early on Thursday morning and a helicopter hovered overhead.A Facebook page purporting to belong to the shooter was filled with posts critical of the police and those who backed gun control.Mass shootings are relatively rare in Canada and the killings have spurred an outpouring of grief on social media. Police told residents not to tweet the locations of officers for fear they could be helping the gunman.Construction worker Danny Leblanc, 42, said he saw the shooter in the distance on Wednesday evening wearing a camouflage outfit and standing in the middle of the street with his gun pointed at police cars. He thought it was an RCMP officer until he heard a burst of automatic gunfire that sent him running into his home, where he remained behind locked doors with his family.Resident Will Njoku said at first he thought the shots had been firecrackers but then he heard sirens.\"My neighbour called and said there was a gunman on the loose and they were just down the road and it kind of freaked us out,\" he told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. \"I jumped out of my house and started directing traffic away ... I knew people going down there would be in danger.\"City officials said there had been no murders in Moncton in all of 2013 and none had been recorded this year until Wednesday.The Canadian prime minister, Stephen Harper, said in a statement the deaths of the officers would be honoured and remembered.Four Canadian RCMP officers, known as Mounties, were killed in March 2005 by a gunman on a farm in the province of Alberta. The shootings at Mayerthorpe, a small town, represented the RCMP's worst single-day loss of life in more than 100 years.The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Manhunt under way in Canada after gunman kills three police"},{"date": "2014-06-10T23:19:15Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Just after noon Ottawa time Monday, the pool reporter who\u2019d been permitted access to the photo op in prime minister Stephen Harper\u2019s second floor office on Parliament Hill sent his report down the wire. Under different circumstances, it all might have provided inspiration for a haiku. As it was, the pool report reflected something else.\u201cBoth leaders were seated when reporters arrived in the room,\u201d the pool reporter noted. \u201cThey stood, shook hands and Harper welcomed Abbott to Ottawa. Abbott said nothing.\u201d Then they sat down again. Then reporters were escorted away. A confounding scene to the rest of the world, perhaps, but as a lesson from political message makers on how to create nothing out of something, it was total perfection. They're getting quite good at it.Harper was first to speak again in front of TV cameras and the rest of the journalists who hadn\u2019t been invited to the one-act play upstairs earlier. He quickly commended Abbott (erroneously) for eliminating the \u201cjob-killing carbon tax.\u201d Abbott, when given the chance, commented on how Canada and Australia are both \u201cresource-driven nations\u201d. With such commonalities, it was no surprise to hear a question on climate change came. What did both leaders think of US president Barack Obama\u2019s new plans to reduce carbon emissions?They were equally strident in their replies. Climate change is a \u201csignificant problem,\u201d Abbott said, but it\u2019s \u201cnot the only or even the most important\u201d one the world faces. Harper delivered a fact check, as he saw it. Obama\u2019s proposals \u201cdo not go nearly far enough in the electricity sector as the actions Canada has already taken.\u201d And, Harper added, no matter what they say, \u201cno country is going to take actions on climate change ... that are going to deliberately destroy jobs.\u201dIt\u2019s true that Canada has put in place regulations for coal-fired electricity plants, and the claim is that by 2030, they\u2019ll reduce emissions by 46% from 2005 levels. Obama, by contrast, has only promised a 30% reduction. However, it\u2019s also true that electricity generation is responsible for only 12% of Canada\u2019s greenhouse gas emissions, of which coal contributes a small portion thanks to hydro-electric plants. In the US, electricity accounts for 39% of emissions \u2013 and 75% of that is contributed by coal. It\u2019s further the case that Canada will only get halfway to the targets it agreed to in Copenhagen, and has yet to truly tackle emissions from its oil and gas industry, which accounts for approximately 25% of its emissions. In the context of the fantastical, zero-sum choice between action on climate change and jobs, Harper was being entirely truthful: Canada has chosen jobs, whatever that means.But then we\u2019re into a debate. Which wasn\u2019t the point Monday.In the days following Obama\u2019s announcement, Canada\u2019s environment minister supplied a line just like the one issued by Harper. \u201cWe are pleased the United States is following in Canada\u2019s footsteps,\u201d Leona Aglukkaq told the House of Commons the same day Obama launched his so-called war on coal. \u201cWe welcome the movement in the United States to regulate greenhouse gas emissions,\u201d she said a few days later. On Monday, a similar tone could be heard from Harper\u2019s Australian counterpart. \u201cI am encouraged that president Obama is taking what I would regard as direct action measures to reduce emissions,\u201d Abbott said. \u201cThis is very similar to the actions that my government proposes to take in Australia.\u201dThe US move on emissions was a big deal, wasn\u2019t it? This was a huge decision from such a big ally to two resource-reliable nations, right? There was a story for the reporters in the room, wasn't there? One might have thought so. But listening to Harper and Abbott, the message instead was much as it was upstairs in front of the pool reporter: that the big something that clearly happened in Washington was a non-story, an un-event not worth talking about. Something that was nothing at all.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Stephen Harper", "Climate change", "Environment", "Business"], "title": "Tony Abbott in Canada: the climate bromance continues | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2014-06-05T12:39:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canadian police on Thursday mounted a massive hunt for a 24-year-old gunman they suspect shot dead three officers in one of the worst losses of life for the country's national force in a decade.Police cordoned off a large area in the northwest of Moncton, New Brunswick, and ordered city residents to stay inside as officers searched for a suspect named on the Royal Canadian Mounted Police's Twitter feed as Justin Bourque of Moncton, who was considered armed and dangerous.Local media in Moncton published a photograph of a man in camouflage clothing and a black headband carrying a rifle.If you live in the marked area stay inside / lock doors. Roads blocked. Traffic disrupted. Avoid area #Codiac #RCMPNB http://t.co/Oqz389LqTlThe RCMP have been hunting Bourque after three officers were killed late on Wednesday and two more were taken to hospital with non-life threatening injuries.A large blue armoured police truck entered the cordoned off area early on Thursday morning and a helicopter hovered overhead.A Facebook page purporting to belong to the shooter was filled with posts critical of the police and those who backed gun control.Mass shootings are relatively rare in Canada and the killings have spurred an outpouring of grief on social media. Police told residents not to tweet the locations of officers for fear they could be helping the gunman.Construction worker Danny Leblanc, 42, said he saw the shooter in the distance on Wednesday evening wearing a camouflage outfit and standing in the middle of the street with his gun pointed at police cars. He thought it was an RCMP officer until he heard a burst of automatic gunfire that sent him running into his home, where he remained behind locked doors with his family.Resident Will Njoku said at first he thought the shots had been firecrackers but then he heard sirens.\"My neighbour called and said there was a gunman on the loose and they were just down the road and it kind of freaked us out,\" he told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. \"I jumped out of my house and started directing traffic away ... I knew people going down there would be in danger.\"City officials said there had been no murders in Moncton in all of 2013 and none had been recorded this year until Wednesday.The Canadian prime minister, Stephen Harper, said in a statement the deaths of the officers would be honoured and remembered.Four Canadian RCMP officers, known as Mounties, were killed in March 2005 by a gunman on a farm in the province of Alberta. The shootings at Mayerthorpe, a small town, represented the RCMP's worst single-day loss of life in more than 100 years.The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Manhunt under way in Canada after gunman kills three police"},{"date": "2014-05-15T18:54:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ever since Canada broke off diplomatic relations with Tehran, Ottawa has toughtened its stance on Iran, taking a similar approach to that of Israel.As the west seizes upon the opportunity to engage with the moderate president, Hassan Rouhani, Canada just seems to be going in the opposite direction, ignoring not only calls for dialogue by the international community but also from the very Iranian dissident voices Ottawa claims to be defending. Instead, Canada is siding with radicals \u2013 dodgy exiled groups and rightwing Israelis \u2013 and moving away from the realities on the ground.In 2012, Canada's foreign affairs minister, John Baird, described Iran as \"the most significant threat to global peace and security in the world today\" as it announced a unilateral decision to shut down his country's embassy in Tehran and expel Iranian diplomats from the Canadian soil.Within a year, as Rouhani travelled to New York to revamp Iran's relations with the west backed by strong popular support at home, Baird warned \"kind words, a smile and a charm offensive are not a substitute for real action.\" Later, as Iran and six world powers including Britain and the US, reached a historic nuclear agreement in Geneva, trying to defuse the threats of yet another war in the Middle East, Canada injected deep scepticism.Canada's big excuse is human rights. Of course, Iran's appalling human rights record, including the high rate of executions and arbitrary arrests of political activists, remains a big concern. But Ottawa's policy of isolating Tehran, at the time Rouhani is under pressure from internal hawks and fudamentalists, is doing a disservice both to the future of peace in the world and the wellbeing of Iranians themselves. By rejecting engagement with Iran, Canada is also turning a blind eye to repeated calls by leading Iranian opposition figures, for the unique opportunity created because of Rouhani's election.This week's Iran human rights event at Canada's parliament embodied what is wrong with Ottawa's approach. A key speaker at a programme studying violations of human rights in Iran was Maryam Rajavi, the leader of the radical exiled group MEK, which was listed as terrorist organisation by the US and the UK until recently. The MEK, charactrised by many observers as a cult-like group, has been repeatedly slammed by the United Nation because of mistreating its own members.The MEK appearance at the programme reportedly made the UN special rapporteur for human rights in Iran, Ahmed Shaheed, to withdraw from the event, the Nation's Ali Gharib reported on Wednesday. To much criticism by the Iranian authorities, Shaheed has extensively reported on the violations of rights in Iran, including mistreatment of prisoners, some of whom are in fact in jail in Iran for having links to the MEK.\"If you want to improve human rights in Iran, don't invite MEK leader, a group accused of serious human rights violations, as a speaker,\" tweeted Golnaz Esfandiari, who blogs on Iran. The MEK remains extremely unpopular in Iran because of its support for the former Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein, during the eight-year war between Iran and Iraq. MEK fought against their countrymen at the time.Earlier this month, Lobelog's Eldar Mamedov detailed how the MEK is using human rights as its casus belli to mix up the complexities of politics inside Iran for an outsider eye and derail the process of Iran-west rapproachment. It looks as Canada is repeating a mistake the US and some European countries did decades ago by relying on radical groups such as MEK, or some Iranian monarchists, to keep itself updated about the complicated bigger picture of today's Iran.Moreover, Canada often berates Iran in the excuse of defending human rights activists and opposition figures who have been imprisoned in Iran. But when the very same people, including 50 prominent political prisoners, reached to US president Barack Obama asking him to end \"crippling\" economic sanctions hurting ordinary people in Iran and seize \"the last chance\" for dialogue with Tehran under Rouhani, Canada seemed to have sealed its ears. Instead, it should listen to more reasonable voices, such as it own former ambassador to Tehran, John Mundy, who has stated it was wrong for Ottawa to cut diplomatic ties.Let's be clear, no one is denying the gross abuses of human rights in Iran or the challenges ahead in finding a permanent nuclear settlement with the Islamic republic. But human rights in Iran can only be improved by the ways of dialogue and engagement. This is why the recent visit to Iran by the EU's foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, who visited a number of leading women rights' activists, was more effective than Canada's many human rights statements.Canada has had a very frosty relations with Iran since the 1979 Islamic revolution. It became more restrained in 2003 when an Iranian-Canadian photographer, Zahra Kazemi, died while in jail in Iran under torture because of a skull fracture. But if Ottawa is genuine about the wellbeing of Iranian citizens, including those persecuted in the country, it should reconsider its Iran policy. But for now, Canada is just getting it wrong on Iran.\u2022 Follow Saeed Kamali Dehghan on Twitter: @SaeedKD", "tags": ["Iran", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Hassan Rouhani", "United Nations"], "title": "Why Canada is getting it wrong on Iran"},{"date": "2014-06-10T23:19:15Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Just after noon Ottawa time Monday, the pool reporter who\u2019d been permitted access to the photo op in prime minister Stephen Harper\u2019s second floor office on Parliament Hill sent his report down the wire. Under different circumstances, it all might have provided inspiration for a haiku. As it was, the pool report reflected something else.\u201cBoth leaders were seated when reporters arrived in the room,\u201d the pool reporter noted. \u201cThey stood, shook hands and Harper welcomed Abbott to Ottawa. Abbott said nothing.\u201d Then they sat down again. Then reporters were escorted away. A confounding scene to the rest of the world, perhaps, but as a lesson from political message makers on how to create nothing out of something, it was total perfection. They're getting quite good at it.Harper was first to speak again in front of TV cameras and the rest of the journalists who hadn\u2019t been invited to the one-act play upstairs earlier. He quickly commended Abbott (erroneously) for eliminating the \u201cjob-killing carbon tax.\u201d Abbott, when given the chance, commented on how Canada and Australia are both \u201cresource-driven nations\u201d. With such commonalities, it was no surprise to hear a question on climate change came. What did both leaders think of US president Barack Obama\u2019s new plans to reduce carbon emissions?They were equally strident in their replies. Climate change is a \u201csignificant problem,\u201d Abbott said, but it\u2019s \u201cnot the only or even the most important\u201d one the world faces. Harper delivered a fact check, as he saw it. Obama\u2019s proposals \u201cdo not go nearly far enough in the electricity sector as the actions Canada has already taken.\u201d And, Harper added, no matter what they say, \u201cno country is going to take actions on climate change ... that are going to deliberately destroy jobs.\u201dIt\u2019s true that Canada has put in place regulations for coal-fired electricity plants, and the claim is that by 2030, they\u2019ll reduce emissions by 46% from 2005 levels. Obama, by contrast, has only promised a 30% reduction. However, it\u2019s also true that electricity generation is responsible for only 12% of Canada\u2019s greenhouse gas emissions, of which coal contributes a small portion thanks to hydro-electric plants. In the US, electricity accounts for 39% of emissions \u2013 and 75% of that is contributed by coal. It\u2019s further the case that Canada will only get halfway to the targets it agreed to in Copenhagen, and has yet to truly tackle emissions from its oil and gas industry, which accounts for approximately 25% of its emissions. In the context of the fantastical, zero-sum choice between action on climate change and jobs, Harper was being entirely truthful: Canada has chosen jobs, whatever that means.But then we\u2019re into a debate. Which wasn\u2019t the point Monday.In the days following Obama\u2019s announcement, Canada\u2019s environment minister supplied a line just like the one issued by Harper. \u201cWe are pleased the United States is following in Canada\u2019s footsteps,\u201d Leona Aglukkaq told the House of Commons the same day Obama launched his so-called war on coal. \u201cWe welcome the movement in the United States to regulate greenhouse gas emissions,\u201d she said a few days later. On Monday, a similar tone could be heard from Harper\u2019s Australian counterpart. \u201cI am encouraged that president Obama is taking what I would regard as direct action measures to reduce emissions,\u201d Abbott said. \u201cThis is very similar to the actions that my government proposes to take in Australia.\u201dThe US move on emissions was a big deal, wasn\u2019t it? This was a huge decision from such a big ally to two resource-reliable nations, right? There was a story for the reporters in the room, wasn't there? One might have thought so. But listening to Harper and Abbott, the message instead was much as it was upstairs in front of the pool reporter: that the big something that clearly happened in Washington was a non-story, an un-event not worth talking about. Something that was nothing at all.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Stephen Harper", "Climate change", "Environment", "Business"], "title": "Tony Abbott in Canada: the climate bromance continues | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2014-06-05T12:39:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canadian police on Thursday mounted a massive hunt for a 24-year-old gunman they suspect shot dead three officers in one of the worst losses of life for the country's national force in a decade.Police cordoned off a large area in the northwest of Moncton, New Brunswick, and ordered city residents to stay inside as officers searched for a suspect named on the Royal Canadian Mounted Police's Twitter feed as Justin Bourque of Moncton, who was considered armed and dangerous.Local media in Moncton published a photograph of a man in camouflage clothing and a black headband carrying a rifle.If you live in the marked area stay inside / lock doors. Roads blocked. Traffic disrupted. Avoid area #Codiac #RCMPNB http://t.co/Oqz389LqTlThe RCMP have been hunting Bourque after three officers were killed late on Wednesday and two more were taken to hospital with non-life threatening injuries.A large blue armoured police truck entered the cordoned off area early on Thursday morning and a helicopter hovered overhead.A Facebook page purporting to belong to the shooter was filled with posts critical of the police and those who backed gun control.Mass shootings are relatively rare in Canada and the killings have spurred an outpouring of grief on social media. Police told residents not to tweet the locations of officers for fear they could be helping the gunman.Construction worker Danny Leblanc, 42, said he saw the shooter in the distance on Wednesday evening wearing a camouflage outfit and standing in the middle of the street with his gun pointed at police cars. He thought it was an RCMP officer until he heard a burst of automatic gunfire that sent him running into his home, where he remained behind locked doors with his family.Resident Will Njoku said at first he thought the shots had been firecrackers but then he heard sirens.\"My neighbour called and said there was a gunman on the loose and they were just down the road and it kind of freaked us out,\" he told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. \"I jumped out of my house and started directing traffic away ... I knew people going down there would be in danger.\"City officials said there had been no murders in Moncton in all of 2013 and none had been recorded this year until Wednesday.The Canadian prime minister, Stephen Harper, said in a statement the deaths of the officers would be honoured and remembered.Four Canadian RCMP officers, known as Mounties, were killed in March 2005 by a gunman on a farm in the province of Alberta. The shootings at Mayerthorpe, a small town, represented the RCMP's worst single-day loss of life in more than 100 years.The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Manhunt under way in Canada after gunman kills three police"},{"date": "2014-05-15T18:54:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ever since Canada broke off diplomatic relations with Tehran, Ottawa has toughtened its stance on Iran, taking a similar approach to that of Israel.As the west seizes upon the opportunity to engage with the moderate president, Hassan Rouhani, Canada just seems to be going in the opposite direction, ignoring not only calls for dialogue by the international community but also from the very Iranian dissident voices Ottawa claims to be defending. Instead, Canada is siding with radicals \u2013 dodgy exiled groups and rightwing Israelis \u2013 and moving away from the realities on the ground.In 2012, Canada's foreign affairs minister, John Baird, described Iran as \"the most significant threat to global peace and security in the world today\" as it announced a unilateral decision to shut down his country's embassy in Tehran and expel Iranian diplomats from the Canadian soil.Within a year, as Rouhani travelled to New York to revamp Iran's relations with the west backed by strong popular support at home, Baird warned \"kind words, a smile and a charm offensive are not a substitute for real action.\" Later, as Iran and six world powers including Britain and the US, reached a historic nuclear agreement in Geneva, trying to defuse the threats of yet another war in the Middle East, Canada injected deep scepticism.Canada's big excuse is human rights. Of course, Iran's appalling human rights record, including the high rate of executions and arbitrary arrests of political activists, remains a big concern. But Ottawa's policy of isolating Tehran, at the time Rouhani is under pressure from internal hawks and fudamentalists, is doing a disservice both to the future of peace in the world and the wellbeing of Iranians themselves. By rejecting engagement with Iran, Canada is also turning a blind eye to repeated calls by leading Iranian opposition figures, for the unique opportunity created because of Rouhani's election.This week's Iran human rights event at Canada's parliament embodied what is wrong with Ottawa's approach. A key speaker at a programme studying violations of human rights in Iran was Maryam Rajavi, the leader of the radical exiled group MEK, which was listed as terrorist organisation by the US and the UK until recently. The MEK, charactrised by many observers as a cult-like group, has been repeatedly slammed by the United Nation because of mistreating its own members.The MEK appearance at the programme reportedly made the UN special rapporteur for human rights in Iran, Ahmed Shaheed, to withdraw from the event, the Nation's Ali Gharib reported on Wednesday. To much criticism by the Iranian authorities, Shaheed has extensively reported on the violations of rights in Iran, including mistreatment of prisoners, some of whom are in fact in jail in Iran for having links to the MEK.\"If you want to improve human rights in Iran, don't invite MEK leader, a group accused of serious human rights violations, as a speaker,\" tweeted Golnaz Esfandiari, who blogs on Iran. The MEK remains extremely unpopular in Iran because of its support for the former Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein, during the eight-year war between Iran and Iraq. MEK fought against their countrymen at the time.Earlier this month, Lobelog's Eldar Mamedov detailed how the MEK is using human rights as its casus belli to mix up the complexities of politics inside Iran for an outsider eye and derail the process of Iran-west rapproachment. It looks as Canada is repeating a mistake the US and some European countries did decades ago by relying on radical groups such as MEK, or some Iranian monarchists, to keep itself updated about the complicated bigger picture of today's Iran.Moreover, Canada often berates Iran in the excuse of defending human rights activists and opposition figures who have been imprisoned in Iran. But when the very same people, including 50 prominent political prisoners, reached to US president Barack Obama asking him to end \"crippling\" economic sanctions hurting ordinary people in Iran and seize \"the last chance\" for dialogue with Tehran under Rouhani, Canada seemed to have sealed its ears. Instead, it should listen to more reasonable voices, such as it own former ambassador to Tehran, John Mundy, who has stated it was wrong for Ottawa to cut diplomatic ties.Let's be clear, no one is denying the gross abuses of human rights in Iran or the challenges ahead in finding a permanent nuclear settlement with the Islamic republic. But human rights in Iran can only be improved by the ways of dialogue and engagement. This is why the recent visit to Iran by the EU's foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, who visited a number of leading women rights' activists, was more effective than Canada's many human rights statements.Canada has had a very frosty relations with Iran since the 1979 Islamic revolution. It became more restrained in 2003 when an Iranian-Canadian photographer, Zahra Kazemi, died while in jail in Iran under torture because of a skull fracture. But if Ottawa is genuine about the wellbeing of Iranian citizens, including those persecuted in the country, it should reconsider its Iran policy. But for now, Canada is just getting it wrong on Iran.\u2022 Follow Saeed Kamali Dehghan on Twitter: @SaeedKD", "tags": ["Iran", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Hassan Rouhani", "United Nations"], "title": "Why Canada is getting it wrong on Iran"},{"date": "2014-04-26T13:38:52Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has released underwater images of the world's most northernly shipwreck \u2013 a three-masted merchant ship that went down 161 years ago after becoming trapped in Arctic ice.The Canadian Armed Forces and Parks Canada produced the footage over six days, lowering a remotely operated HD camera through a hole in the sea ice, to capture images of a barnacle-encrusted hull and anchor from the ocean floor.\u201cIt's rare to have such a detailed view of a shipwreck from 1853,\u201d Jonathan Moore, a senior underwater archaeologist for Parks Canada, said in a statement. \u201cWe anticipate more discoveries and insights as we pore over the collected information.\u201dThe Breadalbane sank in the Barrow strait in August 1853, after becoming trapped in packed ice near Beechey Island in what is now Nunavut. The ship was a supply vessel for ships searching for traces of the doomed Franklin expedition.Captain John Franklin was searching for a route through the Northwest passage when his ship also became icebound. The entire crew of 128 was lost.The Breadalbane was the last and the largest of a series of ships sent out by the Royal Navy to discover Franklin's fate. It also got trapped in fast-moving Arctic ice, and sank within 15 minutes.The 21 crew abandoned ship; all were eventually rescued. The Breadalbane remained undiscovered in 100 metres of water until 1980.It has since been declared a national historic site in Canada.", "tags": ["Canada", "Archaeology", "World news"], "title": "Canada releases pictures of world's most northerly shipwreck"},{"date": "2014-06-10T23:19:15Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Just after noon Ottawa time Monday, the pool reporter who\u2019d been permitted access to the photo op in prime minister Stephen Harper\u2019s second floor office on Parliament Hill sent his report down the wire. Under different circumstances, it all might have provided inspiration for a haiku. As it was, the pool report reflected something else.\u201cBoth leaders were seated when reporters arrived in the room,\u201d the pool reporter noted. \u201cThey stood, shook hands and Harper welcomed Abbott to Ottawa. Abbott said nothing.\u201d Then they sat down again. Then reporters were escorted away. A confounding scene to the rest of the world, perhaps, but as a lesson from political message makers on how to create nothing out of something, it was total perfection. They're getting quite good at it.Harper was first to speak again in front of TV cameras and the rest of the journalists who hadn\u2019t been invited to the one-act play upstairs earlier. He quickly commended Abbott (erroneously) for eliminating the \u201cjob-killing carbon tax.\u201d Abbott, when given the chance, commented on how Canada and Australia are both \u201cresource-driven nations\u201d. With such commonalities, it was no surprise to hear a question on climate change came. What did both leaders think of US president Barack Obama\u2019s new plans to reduce carbon emissions?They were equally strident in their replies. Climate change is a \u201csignificant problem,\u201d Abbott said, but it\u2019s \u201cnot the only or even the most important\u201d one the world faces. Harper delivered a fact check, as he saw it. Obama\u2019s proposals \u201cdo not go nearly far enough in the electricity sector as the actions Canada has already taken.\u201d And, Harper added, no matter what they say, \u201cno country is going to take actions on climate change ... that are going to deliberately destroy jobs.\u201dIt\u2019s true that Canada has put in place regulations for coal-fired electricity plants, and the claim is that by 2030, they\u2019ll reduce emissions by 46% from 2005 levels. Obama, by contrast, has only promised a 30% reduction. However, it\u2019s also true that electricity generation is responsible for only 12% of Canada\u2019s greenhouse gas emissions, of which coal contributes a small portion thanks to hydro-electric plants. In the US, electricity accounts for 39% of emissions \u2013 and 75% of that is contributed by coal. It\u2019s further the case that Canada will only get halfway to the targets it agreed to in Copenhagen, and has yet to truly tackle emissions from its oil and gas industry, which accounts for approximately 25% of its emissions. In the context of the fantastical, zero-sum choice between action on climate change and jobs, Harper was being entirely truthful: Canada has chosen jobs, whatever that means.But then we\u2019re into a debate. Which wasn\u2019t the point Monday.In the days following Obama\u2019s announcement, Canada\u2019s environment minister supplied a line just like the one issued by Harper. \u201cWe are pleased the United States is following in Canada\u2019s footsteps,\u201d Leona Aglukkaq told the House of Commons the same day Obama launched his so-called war on coal. \u201cWe welcome the movement in the United States to regulate greenhouse gas emissions,\u201d she said a few days later. On Monday, a similar tone could be heard from Harper\u2019s Australian counterpart. \u201cI am encouraged that president Obama is taking what I would regard as direct action measures to reduce emissions,\u201d Abbott said. \u201cThis is very similar to the actions that my government proposes to take in Australia.\u201dThe US move on emissions was a big deal, wasn\u2019t it? This was a huge decision from such a big ally to two resource-reliable nations, right? There was a story for the reporters in the room, wasn't there? One might have thought so. But listening to Harper and Abbott, the message instead was much as it was upstairs in front of the pool reporter: that the big something that clearly happened in Washington was a non-story, an un-event not worth talking about. Something that was nothing at all.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Stephen Harper", "Climate change", "Environment", "Business"], "title": "Tony Abbott in Canada: the climate bromance continues | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2014-06-05T12:39:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canadian police on Thursday mounted a massive hunt for a 24-year-old gunman they suspect shot dead three officers in one of the worst losses of life for the country's national force in a decade.Police cordoned off a large area in the northwest of Moncton, New Brunswick, and ordered city residents to stay inside as officers searched for a suspect named on the Royal Canadian Mounted Police's Twitter feed as Justin Bourque of Moncton, who was considered armed and dangerous.Local media in Moncton published a photograph of a man in camouflage clothing and a black headband carrying a rifle.If you live in the marked area stay inside / lock doors. Roads blocked. Traffic disrupted. Avoid area #Codiac #RCMPNB http://t.co/Oqz389LqTlThe RCMP have been hunting Bourque after three officers were killed late on Wednesday and two more were taken to hospital with non-life threatening injuries.A large blue armoured police truck entered the cordoned off area early on Thursday morning and a helicopter hovered overhead.A Facebook page purporting to belong to the shooter was filled with posts critical of the police and those who backed gun control.Mass shootings are relatively rare in Canada and the killings have spurred an outpouring of grief on social media. Police told residents not to tweet the locations of officers for fear they could be helping the gunman.Construction worker Danny Leblanc, 42, said he saw the shooter in the distance on Wednesday evening wearing a camouflage outfit and standing in the middle of the street with his gun pointed at police cars. He thought it was an RCMP officer until he heard a burst of automatic gunfire that sent him running into his home, where he remained behind locked doors with his family.Resident Will Njoku said at first he thought the shots had been firecrackers but then he heard sirens.\"My neighbour called and said there was a gunman on the loose and they were just down the road and it kind of freaked us out,\" he told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. \"I jumped out of my house and started directing traffic away ... I knew people going down there would be in danger.\"City officials said there had been no murders in Moncton in all of 2013 and none had been recorded this year until Wednesday.The Canadian prime minister, Stephen Harper, said in a statement the deaths of the officers would be honoured and remembered.Four Canadian RCMP officers, known as Mounties, were killed in March 2005 by a gunman on a farm in the province of Alberta. The shootings at Mayerthorpe, a small town, represented the RCMP's worst single-day loss of life in more than 100 years.The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Manhunt under way in Canada after gunman kills three police"},{"date": "2014-05-15T18:54:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ever since Canada broke off diplomatic relations with Tehran, Ottawa has toughtened its stance on Iran, taking a similar approach to that of Israel.As the west seizes upon the opportunity to engage with the moderate president, Hassan Rouhani, Canada just seems to be going in the opposite direction, ignoring not only calls for dialogue by the international community but also from the very Iranian dissident voices Ottawa claims to be defending. Instead, Canada is siding with radicals \u2013 dodgy exiled groups and rightwing Israelis \u2013 and moving away from the realities on the ground.In 2012, Canada's foreign affairs minister, John Baird, described Iran as \"the most significant threat to global peace and security in the world today\" as it announced a unilateral decision to shut down his country's embassy in Tehran and expel Iranian diplomats from the Canadian soil.Within a year, as Rouhani travelled to New York to revamp Iran's relations with the west backed by strong popular support at home, Baird warned \"kind words, a smile and a charm offensive are not a substitute for real action.\" Later, as Iran and six world powers including Britain and the US, reached a historic nuclear agreement in Geneva, trying to defuse the threats of yet another war in the Middle East, Canada injected deep scepticism.Canada's big excuse is human rights. Of course, Iran's appalling human rights record, including the high rate of executions and arbitrary arrests of political activists, remains a big concern. But Ottawa's policy of isolating Tehran, at the time Rouhani is under pressure from internal hawks and fudamentalists, is doing a disservice both to the future of peace in the world and the wellbeing of Iranians themselves. By rejecting engagement with Iran, Canada is also turning a blind eye to repeated calls by leading Iranian opposition figures, for the unique opportunity created because of Rouhani's election.This week's Iran human rights event at Canada's parliament embodied what is wrong with Ottawa's approach. A key speaker at a programme studying violations of human rights in Iran was Maryam Rajavi, the leader of the radical exiled group MEK, which was listed as terrorist organisation by the US and the UK until recently. The MEK, charactrised by many observers as a cult-like group, has been repeatedly slammed by the United Nation because of mistreating its own members.The MEK appearance at the programme reportedly made the UN special rapporteur for human rights in Iran, Ahmed Shaheed, to withdraw from the event, the Nation's Ali Gharib reported on Wednesday. To much criticism by the Iranian authorities, Shaheed has extensively reported on the violations of rights in Iran, including mistreatment of prisoners, some of whom are in fact in jail in Iran for having links to the MEK.\"If you want to improve human rights in Iran, don't invite MEK leader, a group accused of serious human rights violations, as a speaker,\" tweeted Golnaz Esfandiari, who blogs on Iran. The MEK remains extremely unpopular in Iran because of its support for the former Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein, during the eight-year war between Iran and Iraq. MEK fought against their countrymen at the time.Earlier this month, Lobelog's Eldar Mamedov detailed how the MEK is using human rights as its casus belli to mix up the complexities of politics inside Iran for an outsider eye and derail the process of Iran-west rapproachment. It looks as Canada is repeating a mistake the US and some European countries did decades ago by relying on radical groups such as MEK, or some Iranian monarchists, to keep itself updated about the complicated bigger picture of today's Iran.Moreover, Canada often berates Iran in the excuse of defending human rights activists and opposition figures who have been imprisoned in Iran. But when the very same people, including 50 prominent political prisoners, reached to US president Barack Obama asking him to end \"crippling\" economic sanctions hurting ordinary people in Iran and seize \"the last chance\" for dialogue with Tehran under Rouhani, Canada seemed to have sealed its ears. Instead, it should listen to more reasonable voices, such as it own former ambassador to Tehran, John Mundy, who has stated it was wrong for Ottawa to cut diplomatic ties.Let's be clear, no one is denying the gross abuses of human rights in Iran or the challenges ahead in finding a permanent nuclear settlement with the Islamic republic. But human rights in Iran can only be improved by the ways of dialogue and engagement. This is why the recent visit to Iran by the EU's foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, who visited a number of leading women rights' activists, was more effective than Canada's many human rights statements.Canada has had a very frosty relations with Iran since the 1979 Islamic revolution. It became more restrained in 2003 when an Iranian-Canadian photographer, Zahra Kazemi, died while in jail in Iran under torture because of a skull fracture. But if Ottawa is genuine about the wellbeing of Iranian citizens, including those persecuted in the country, it should reconsider its Iran policy. But for now, Canada is just getting it wrong on Iran.\u2022 Follow Saeed Kamali Dehghan on Twitter: @SaeedKD", "tags": ["Iran", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Hassan Rouhani", "United Nations"], "title": "Why Canada is getting it wrong on Iran"},{"date": "2014-04-26T13:38:52Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has released underwater images of the world's most northernly shipwreck \u2013 a three-masted merchant ship that went down 161 years ago after becoming trapped in Arctic ice.The Canadian Armed Forces and Parks Canada produced the footage over six days, lowering a remotely operated HD camera through a hole in the sea ice, to capture images of a barnacle-encrusted hull and anchor from the ocean floor.\u201cIt's rare to have such a detailed view of a shipwreck from 1853,\u201d Jonathan Moore, a senior underwater archaeologist for Parks Canada, said in a statement. \u201cWe anticipate more discoveries and insights as we pore over the collected information.\u201dThe Breadalbane sank in the Barrow strait in August 1853, after becoming trapped in packed ice near Beechey Island in what is now Nunavut. The ship was a supply vessel for ships searching for traces of the doomed Franklin expedition.Captain John Franklin was searching for a route through the Northwest passage when his ship also became icebound. The entire crew of 128 was lost.The Breadalbane was the last and the largest of a series of ships sent out by the Royal Navy to discover Franklin's fate. It also got trapped in fast-moving Arctic ice, and sank within 15 minutes.The 21 crew abandoned ship; all were eventually rescued. The Breadalbane remained undiscovered in 100 metres of water until 1980.It has since been declared a national historic site in Canada.", "tags": ["Canada", "Archaeology", "World news"], "title": "Canada releases pictures of world's most northerly shipwreck"},{"date": "2014-04-18T08:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Montreal Institute for Genocide and Human Rights Studies is organising a two-and-a-half-day training programme on the prevention of mass atrocities.The programme is geared towards, among others, government agency officials and senior staff, policymakers, diplomats and professionals from thinktanks. It will take place from 18 to 20 June.There will be speakers from the Global Centre for the Responsibility to Protect, UN Peacebuilding, and the Child Soldiers Initiative. There is more information on the institute's website here.Lagos state governor Babatunde Raji Fashola has said there is an urgent need to create conditions in which younger civil servants can attain leadership positions.Fashola said the younger generation of Nigerians holds the key to vibrant public services. He made this speech while swearing in three newly appointed secretaries of state, the Nigerian newspaper Leadership reported.The Partnership for Public Service has called for a series of civil service reforms, but recommends keeping in place a controversial hiring process which favours applications from former US troops.Government agencies select new employees based on a points system, and veterans are awarded extra points.One former US marine who is opposed to the system is quoted by the Washington Post saying, \"I am seeing former members of the military and military spouses get jobs that they are truly unqualified for.\"The government's chief secretary Tan Sri Dr Ali Hamsa said civil servants found leaking government secrets may be sacked, the Malay Mail Online reported.Hamsa said civil servants must ensure confidentiality for the sake of national security and the wellbeing of the public.\u2022 Want your say? Email us at public.leaders@theguardian.com. Join the Public Leaders Network for more comment, analysis and job opportunities, direct to your inbox. Follow us on twitter via @Guardianpublic.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Nigeria", "Canada", "Malaysia"], "title": "Canada: new training programme on prevention of mass atrocities | Civil service global roundup"},{"date": "2014-06-10T23:19:15Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Just after noon Ottawa time Monday, the pool reporter who\u2019d been permitted access to the photo op in prime minister Stephen Harper\u2019s second floor office on Parliament Hill sent his report down the wire. Under different circumstances, it all might have provided inspiration for a haiku. As it was, the pool report reflected something else.\u201cBoth leaders were seated when reporters arrived in the room,\u201d the pool reporter noted. \u201cThey stood, shook hands and Harper welcomed Abbott to Ottawa. Abbott said nothing.\u201d Then they sat down again. Then reporters were escorted away. A confounding scene to the rest of the world, perhaps, but as a lesson from political message makers on how to create nothing out of something, it was total perfection. They're getting quite good at it.Harper was first to speak again in front of TV cameras and the rest of the journalists who hadn\u2019t been invited to the one-act play upstairs earlier. He quickly commended Abbott (erroneously) for eliminating the \u201cjob-killing carbon tax.\u201d Abbott, when given the chance, commented on how Canada and Australia are both \u201cresource-driven nations\u201d. With such commonalities, it was no surprise to hear a question on climate change came. What did both leaders think of US president Barack Obama\u2019s new plans to reduce carbon emissions?They were equally strident in their replies. Climate change is a \u201csignificant problem,\u201d Abbott said, but it\u2019s \u201cnot the only or even the most important\u201d one the world faces. Harper delivered a fact check, as he saw it. Obama\u2019s proposals \u201cdo not go nearly far enough in the electricity sector as the actions Canada has already taken.\u201d And, Harper added, no matter what they say, \u201cno country is going to take actions on climate change ... that are going to deliberately destroy jobs.\u201dIt\u2019s true that Canada has put in place regulations for coal-fired electricity plants, and the claim is that by 2030, they\u2019ll reduce emissions by 46% from 2005 levels. Obama, by contrast, has only promised a 30% reduction. However, it\u2019s also true that electricity generation is responsible for only 12% of Canada\u2019s greenhouse gas emissions, of which coal contributes a small portion thanks to hydro-electric plants. In the US, electricity accounts for 39% of emissions \u2013 and 75% of that is contributed by coal. It\u2019s further the case that Canada will only get halfway to the targets it agreed to in Copenhagen, and has yet to truly tackle emissions from its oil and gas industry, which accounts for approximately 25% of its emissions. In the context of the fantastical, zero-sum choice between action on climate change and jobs, Harper was being entirely truthful: Canada has chosen jobs, whatever that means.But then we\u2019re into a debate. Which wasn\u2019t the point Monday.In the days following Obama\u2019s announcement, Canada\u2019s environment minister supplied a line just like the one issued by Harper. \u201cWe are pleased the United States is following in Canada\u2019s footsteps,\u201d Leona Aglukkaq told the House of Commons the same day Obama launched his so-called war on coal. \u201cWe welcome the movement in the United States to regulate greenhouse gas emissions,\u201d she said a few days later. On Monday, a similar tone could be heard from Harper\u2019s Australian counterpart. \u201cI am encouraged that president Obama is taking what I would regard as direct action measures to reduce emissions,\u201d Abbott said. \u201cThis is very similar to the actions that my government proposes to take in Australia.\u201dThe US move on emissions was a big deal, wasn\u2019t it? This was a huge decision from such a big ally to two resource-reliable nations, right? There was a story for the reporters in the room, wasn't there? One might have thought so. But listening to Harper and Abbott, the message instead was much as it was upstairs in front of the pool reporter: that the big something that clearly happened in Washington was a non-story, an un-event not worth talking about. Something that was nothing at all.", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Stephen Harper", "Climate change", "Environment", "Business"], "title": "Tony Abbott in Canada: the climate bromance continues | Colin Horgan"},{"date": "2014-06-05T12:39:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canadian police on Thursday mounted a massive hunt for a 24-year-old gunman they suspect shot dead three officers in one of the worst losses of life for the country's national force in a decade.Police cordoned off a large area in the northwest of Moncton, New Brunswick, and ordered city residents to stay inside as officers searched for a suspect named on the Royal Canadian Mounted Police's Twitter feed as Justin Bourque of Moncton, who was considered armed and dangerous.Local media in Moncton published a photograph of a man in camouflage clothing and a black headband carrying a rifle.If you live in the marked area stay inside / lock doors. Roads blocked. Traffic disrupted. Avoid area #Codiac #RCMPNB http://t.co/Oqz389LqTlThe RCMP have been hunting Bourque after three officers were killed late on Wednesday and two more were taken to hospital with non-life threatening injuries.A large blue armoured police truck entered the cordoned off area early on Thursday morning and a helicopter hovered overhead.A Facebook page purporting to belong to the shooter was filled with posts critical of the police and those who backed gun control.Mass shootings are relatively rare in Canada and the killings have spurred an outpouring of grief on social media. Police told residents not to tweet the locations of officers for fear they could be helping the gunman.Construction worker Danny Leblanc, 42, said he saw the shooter in the distance on Wednesday evening wearing a camouflage outfit and standing in the middle of the street with his gun pointed at police cars. He thought it was an RCMP officer until he heard a burst of automatic gunfire that sent him running into his home, where he remained behind locked doors with his family.Resident Will Njoku said at first he thought the shots had been firecrackers but then he heard sirens.\"My neighbour called and said there was a gunman on the loose and they were just down the road and it kind of freaked us out,\" he told the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. \"I jumped out of my house and started directing traffic away ... I knew people going down there would be in danger.\"City officials said there had been no murders in Moncton in all of 2013 and none had been recorded this year until Wednesday.The Canadian prime minister, Stephen Harper, said in a statement the deaths of the officers would be honoured and remembered.Four Canadian RCMP officers, known as Mounties, were killed in March 2005 by a gunman on a farm in the province of Alberta. The shootings at Mayerthorpe, a small town, represented the RCMP's worst single-day loss of life in more than 100 years.The Associated Press and Reuters contributed to this report", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Manhunt under way in Canada after gunman kills three police"},{"date": "2014-05-15T18:54:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Ever since Canada broke off diplomatic relations with Tehran, Ottawa has toughtened its stance on Iran, taking a similar approach to that of Israel.As the west seizes upon the opportunity to engage with the moderate president, Hassan Rouhani, Canada just seems to be going in the opposite direction, ignoring not only calls for dialogue by the international community but also from the very Iranian dissident voices Ottawa claims to be defending. Instead, Canada is siding with radicals \u2013 dodgy exiled groups and rightwing Israelis \u2013 and moving away from the realities on the ground.In 2012, Canada's foreign affairs minister, John Baird, described Iran as \"the most significant threat to global peace and security in the world today\" as it announced a unilateral decision to shut down his country's embassy in Tehran and expel Iranian diplomats from the Canadian soil.Within a year, as Rouhani travelled to New York to revamp Iran's relations with the west backed by strong popular support at home, Baird warned \"kind words, a smile and a charm offensive are not a substitute for real action.\" Later, as Iran and six world powers including Britain and the US, reached a historic nuclear agreement in Geneva, trying to defuse the threats of yet another war in the Middle East, Canada injected deep scepticism.Canada's big excuse is human rights. Of course, Iran's appalling human rights record, including the high rate of executions and arbitrary arrests of political activists, remains a big concern. But Ottawa's policy of isolating Tehran, at the time Rouhani is under pressure from internal hawks and fudamentalists, is doing a disservice both to the future of peace in the world and the wellbeing of Iranians themselves. By rejecting engagement with Iran, Canada is also turning a blind eye to repeated calls by leading Iranian opposition figures, for the unique opportunity created because of Rouhani's election.This week's Iran human rights event at Canada's parliament embodied what is wrong with Ottawa's approach. A key speaker at a programme studying violations of human rights in Iran was Maryam Rajavi, the leader of the radical exiled group MEK, which was listed as terrorist organisation by the US and the UK until recently. The MEK, charactrised by many observers as a cult-like group, has been repeatedly slammed by the United Nation because of mistreating its own members.The MEK appearance at the programme reportedly made the UN special rapporteur for human rights in Iran, Ahmed Shaheed, to withdraw from the event, the Nation's Ali Gharib reported on Wednesday. To much criticism by the Iranian authorities, Shaheed has extensively reported on the violations of rights in Iran, including mistreatment of prisoners, some of whom are in fact in jail in Iran for having links to the MEK.\"If you want to improve human rights in Iran, don't invite MEK leader, a group accused of serious human rights violations, as a speaker,\" tweeted Golnaz Esfandiari, who blogs on Iran. The MEK remains extremely unpopular in Iran because of its support for the former Iraqi leader, Saddam Hussein, during the eight-year war between Iran and Iraq. MEK fought against their countrymen at the time.Earlier this month, Lobelog's Eldar Mamedov detailed how the MEK is using human rights as its casus belli to mix up the complexities of politics inside Iran for an outsider eye and derail the process of Iran-west rapproachment. It looks as Canada is repeating a mistake the US and some European countries did decades ago by relying on radical groups such as MEK, or some Iranian monarchists, to keep itself updated about the complicated bigger picture of today's Iran.Moreover, Canada often berates Iran in the excuse of defending human rights activists and opposition figures who have been imprisoned in Iran. But when the very same people, including 50 prominent political prisoners, reached to US president Barack Obama asking him to end \"crippling\" economic sanctions hurting ordinary people in Iran and seize \"the last chance\" for dialogue with Tehran under Rouhani, Canada seemed to have sealed its ears. Instead, it should listen to more reasonable voices, such as it own former ambassador to Tehran, John Mundy, who has stated it was wrong for Ottawa to cut diplomatic ties.Let's be clear, no one is denying the gross abuses of human rights in Iran or the challenges ahead in finding a permanent nuclear settlement with the Islamic republic. But human rights in Iran can only be improved by the ways of dialogue and engagement. This is why the recent visit to Iran by the EU's foreign policy chief, Catherine Ashton, who visited a number of leading women rights' activists, was more effective than Canada's many human rights statements.Canada has had a very frosty relations with Iran since the 1979 Islamic revolution. It became more restrained in 2003 when an Iranian-Canadian photographer, Zahra Kazemi, died while in jail in Iran under torture because of a skull fracture. But if Ottawa is genuine about the wellbeing of Iranian citizens, including those persecuted in the country, it should reconsider its Iran policy. But for now, Canada is just getting it wrong on Iran.\u2022 Follow Saeed Kamali Dehghan on Twitter: @SaeedKD", "tags": ["Iran", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Hassan Rouhani", "United Nations"], "title": "Why Canada is getting it wrong on Iran"},{"date": "2014-04-26T13:38:52Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has released underwater images of the world's most northernly shipwreck \u2013 a three-masted merchant ship that went down 161 years ago after becoming trapped in Arctic ice.The Canadian Armed Forces and Parks Canada produced the footage over six days, lowering a remotely operated HD camera through a hole in the sea ice, to capture images of a barnacle-encrusted hull and anchor from the ocean floor.\u201cIt's rare to have such a detailed view of a shipwreck from 1853,\u201d Jonathan Moore, a senior underwater archaeologist for Parks Canada, said in a statement. \u201cWe anticipate more discoveries and insights as we pore over the collected information.\u201dThe Breadalbane sank in the Barrow strait in August 1853, after becoming trapped in packed ice near Beechey Island in what is now Nunavut. The ship was a supply vessel for ships searching for traces of the doomed Franklin expedition.Captain John Franklin was searching for a route through the Northwest passage when his ship also became icebound. The entire crew of 128 was lost.The Breadalbane was the last and the largest of a series of ships sent out by the Royal Navy to discover Franklin's fate. It also got trapped in fast-moving Arctic ice, and sank within 15 minutes.The 21 crew abandoned ship; all were eventually rescued. The Breadalbane remained undiscovered in 100 metres of water until 1980.It has since been declared a national historic site in Canada.", "tags": ["Canada", "Archaeology", "World news"], "title": "Canada releases pictures of world's most northerly shipwreck"},{"date": "2014-04-18T08:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Montreal Institute for Genocide and Human Rights Studies is organising a two-and-a-half-day training programme on the prevention of mass atrocities.The programme is geared towards, among others, government agency officials and senior staff, policymakers, diplomats and professionals from thinktanks. It will take place from 18 to 20 June.There will be speakers from the Global Centre for the Responsibility to Protect, UN Peacebuilding, and the Child Soldiers Initiative. There is more information on the institute's website here.Lagos state governor Babatunde Raji Fashola has said there is an urgent need to create conditions in which younger civil servants can attain leadership positions.Fashola said the younger generation of Nigerians holds the key to vibrant public services. He made this speech while swearing in three newly appointed secretaries of state, the Nigerian newspaper Leadership reported.The Partnership for Public Service has called for a series of civil service reforms, but recommends keeping in place a controversial hiring process which favours applications from former US troops.Government agencies select new employees based on a points system, and veterans are awarded extra points.One former US marine who is opposed to the system is quoted by the Washington Post saying, \"I am seeing former members of the military and military spouses get jobs that they are truly unqualified for.\"The government's chief secretary Tan Sri Dr Ali Hamsa said civil servants found leaking government secrets may be sacked, the Malay Mail Online reported.Hamsa said civil servants must ensure confidentiality for the sake of national security and the wellbeing of the public.\u2022 Want your say? Email us at public.leaders@theguardian.com. Join the Public Leaders Network for more comment, analysis and job opportunities, direct to your inbox. Follow us on twitter via @Guardianpublic.", "tags": ["Public Leaders Network", "Nigeria", "Canada", "Malaysia"], "title": "Canada: new training programme on prevention of mass atrocities | Civil service global roundup"},{"date": "2014-04-11T11:51:59Z", "country": "canada", "content": "For perhaps the first time, someone has tried to qualify the resilience of cities. Grosvenor, the London-based property company led by the Duke of Westminster, analysed more than 100 independently verified data sets in order to determine two key elements of what makes a city resilient: its \"vulnerability\" on the one hand, and its \"adaptive capacity\" on the other.Vulnerability was measured by looking at climate threats, environmental degradation (including pollution and overconsumption due to sprawl), resources (particularly access to energy), infrastructure and community cohesion. Weakness in any of those areas reduced a city's score. Adaptive capacity, or a city's ability to prevent and mitigate serious threats, was a combination of governance (high value here on democracy, freedom of speech, community participation, transparency, accountability and long-term leadership vision), strong institutions, learning capacity (including good technical universities), disaster planner and finally funding (from budget to credit and access to global funding).Rob Ford and ice storms notwithstanding, Toronto tops the list, following by Vancouver and Calgary and closely trailed by several US cities. London is 18th, suffering as Grosvenor pointed out from social tensions due to lack of affordable housing. Eight of the weakest 20 cities are in the Bric countries of Brazil, Russia, India and China, where blistering economic growth has not yet led to long-term resilience. One particularly disturbing trend is that some of the least resilient cities on the list are also the ones where the population is expected to grow fastest.Data journalism and data visualisations from the Guardian\u2022 Search the world\u2019s global development data with our gateway\u2022 Contact us at data@theguardian.com\u2022 Follow us on Twitter\u2022 Like us on Facebook", "tags": ["Cities", "Environment", "Climate change", "Brics", "Business", "Canada", "World news"], "title": "The three most resilient cities? They're all in Canada"},{"date": "2014-08-19T12:59:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I\u2019m up here in the land of the midnight sun at 68.4 degrees latitude, with summer temperatures approaching 30C. However, all good things must come to an end, and the sun will dip down to the horizon at about 2am. Attentive folks will say it should be midnight, no? Reason is that we need to follow Alberta\u2019s mountain time for convenience, rather than the true time given by our longitude. If you follow the longitude down from Inuvik, you end up in the Pacific Ocean far west of Vancouver.This is my second time living in Inuvik in the Mackenzie Delta region of the Northwest Territories. This time I moved from Ragged Ass Road in Yellowknife. The first trip to Inuvik was exactly 18 years ago, and that was quite an adventure. The most eventful part of the 3,200km journey from Edmonton was travelling the Dempster Highway from Dawson City, Yukon up to Inuvik, a distance of 740km on tyre-punishing crushed black shale. The trip involved a large semi-trailer truck trying to force us off the road (the old Saab ran well, even with two wheels over the shoulder), and a lightning strike right beside the car in a foggy drive over a mountain crest right up in the clouds in the Richardson mountain range. That was a window-rattling explosion like a mine blast under a tank in a second world war movie.So moving back to Inuvik is like coming home. They say when you venture to a remote community in the Arctic you will either love it or hate it. When my family of four moved here in 1996 we were ambivalent. However, go where the work is. Soon every trip south to the so-called civilised world seemed crowded and impersonal. So it is a treat to sit here again in the Cafe Gallery, sip my mocha, gnaw on a cranberry muffin and reminisce.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada"], "title": "Letter from Canada: true north"},{"date": "2014-08-19T12:59:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I\u2019m up here in the land of the midnight sun at 68.4 degrees latitude, with summer temperatures approaching 30C. However, all good things must come to an end, and the sun will dip down to the horizon at about 2am. Attentive folks will say it should be midnight, no? Reason is that we need to follow Alberta\u2019s mountain time for convenience, rather than the true time given by our longitude. If you follow the longitude down from Inuvik, you end up in the Pacific Ocean far west of Vancouver.This is my second time living in Inuvik in the Mackenzie Delta region of the Northwest Territories. This time I moved from Ragged Ass Road in Yellowknife. The first trip to Inuvik was exactly 18 years ago, and that was quite an adventure. The most eventful part of the 3,200km journey from Edmonton was travelling the Dempster Highway from Dawson City, Yukon up to Inuvik, a distance of 740km on tyre-punishing crushed black shale. The trip involved a large semi-trailer truck trying to force us off the road (the old Saab ran well, even with two wheels over the shoulder), and a lightning strike right beside the car in a foggy drive over a mountain crest right up in the clouds in the Richardson mountain range. That was a window-rattling explosion like a mine blast under a tank in a second world war movie.So moving back to Inuvik is like coming home. They say when you venture to a remote community in the Arctic you will either love it or hate it. When my family of four moved here in 1996 we were ambivalent. However, go where the work is. Soon every trip south to the so-called civilised world seemed crowded and impersonal. So it is a treat to sit here again in the Cafe Gallery, sip my mocha, gnaw on a cranberry muffin and reminisce.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada"], "title": "Letter from Canada: true north"},{"date": "2014-07-24T12:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Buy Social brand and campaign were initially developed by Social Enterprise UK (SEUK) to increase awareness and market opportunities for their social enterprise members. Launched in 2012, Buy Social promotes trade between social enterprises and encourages private businesses and public sector bodies to procure goods and services from social enterprises. It also seeks to influence consumers' spending decisions. As SEUK chief executive Peter Holbrook explains: \"When you spend with a social enterprise, your money goes towards supporting a social enterprise's mission, helping to tackle some of society's most pressing problems.\"On June 16-17, Holbrook was in Vancouver, British Columbia to attend the launch of Buy Social Canada and join a social enterprise exchange between the UK and Canada, sponsored by the British Council. The event brought together early adopters in the social purchasing movement in Canada as well as representatives from municipal, provincial and federal governments, large and small businesses, and social enterprises.In his opening remarks, Don McRae, the minister of social development and Social Innovation in British Columbia, clearly stated the summit's shared goal: \"We all want to see a better world and buying social is a way to get there.\"Buy Social is an emerging initiative, but it has a promising future in Canada. Its potential is often compared to the success of campaigns to promote environmentally-friendly purchasing. Our aim in launching the campaign in Canada was to provide consumers with a fourth criterion in making their purchasing decisions. While we will always use price and quality as key metrics, we now also employ environmental impact. We hope that social benefit will become that fourth screen and that by encouraging consumers to buy social we will not just avoid the risk of a social crisis, but actually create economic and social opportunities and use market forces to solve long term, complex social problems. We are at the beginning of a major process, but the UK's experience provides a useful model \u2013 as did Peter Holbrook's advice that we: \"Start simply, start small, and the rest will follow.\"In seeking to encourage corporations to buy social, one key challenge is helping them align CSR goals and purchasing processes. As a corporate sponsor of the Buy Social launch, TELUS, a major Canadian telecommunications provider, offered their perspective.Corinne Campney, manager of community investment, explained that this was the first time in her 25-year career with TELUS that she was in the same room with someone from the purchasing department. CSR was traditionally charity and community service focused, while procurement was driven by price, quality and risk avoidance. But now, as they seek to diversity their supply chains, businesses are facing the emerging challenge of how to add social enterprise to the mix . Being able to facilitate that internal dialogue within TELUS, a multi-billion dollar company, was quite a success for the summit. And it underscored the point made by Peter Holbrook that: \"big businesses are getting the message: buying social is mutually beneficial.\"Purchasing CultureLogistical issues such as contract size were also mentioned as barriers, but the obstacles presented by \"traditional purchasing culture\" were the most daunting. Social enterprise consultant Sandra Hamilton told the story of working with a potential University food purchaser. She laughed as she explained how she had to lug a 100-page copy of international and inter-provincial trade agreements to deflect 'red herring' dismissals of why they couldn't consider local, rural food producers in their supply chain. She won over the leadership and the purchasers, leading to local purchasing commencing this fall semester!One social enterprise manager, Brian Postlewaite of Mission Possible, an employment service providing building management services, detailed how hard it can be to simply bid for some contracts. \"Social purchasing development isn't always about introducing a change management process, sometimes it requires changing the management.\"Following round table discussions on barriers and opportunities, the summit agenda moved onto a 'solutions salon' for the final hours. The British Columbia government is emerging as an early solutions collaborator. In his address, social development minister Don McRae noted that he had \"directed ministry staff to examine opportunities to work within government's existing procurement policy to bring forward options for government's consideration.\"Janice Abbott, who is the executive director of Atira Women's Resource, a non-profit charitable organization, as well as the chief executive of their for-profit subsidiary, Atira Property Management, challenged the entire group: \"We all need to look at our internal policies and how we're supporting each other. We need to walk the walk.\"Early adoptersThe Buy Social Canada Summit was an important catalyst for enhanced efforts across the country. Fortunately, we aren't starting from scratch. Twelve years ago, I and others helped launch Canada's first Social Purchasing Portals. The 2010 Winter Olympics broke ground by procuring from social enterprises. Currently in Toronto, the Learning Enrichment Foundation and the Toronto Enterprise Fund are leading a joint effort to introduce social purchasing in a major transportation infrastructure development and at the 2015 Pan-Am Games.Adding the brand and campaign potential of the UK's Buy Social to our existing toolbox will be key to our future success in Canada. We need to move beyond the early adopters list and engage more corporate and institutional purchasers. We need to move from government policy discussion to enacting legislation like the UK Social Value Act. We need our list of Buy Social certified social enterprises to reach into the thousands, with a diversity of products, services and social impact solutions.There is a journey ahead of us of course, but as Peter Frampton of the Learning Enrichment Foundation and Buy Social Canada partner pointed out at the summit opening: \"Buying social is much easier than getting pigs to fly, so let's get on with it.\"David LePage is the co-Founder of Buy Social Canada and Principal at Accelerating Social Impact CCC, Ltd. You can follow the progress of Buy Social Canada @buysocialcanada.More from the British Council partnerzone:\u2022 The importance of social enterprise in Korea's overseas aid work\u2022 Catalysing the global market of impact investment\u2022 Putting social enterprise at the heart of higher educationCopy on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "Buy Social launches in Canada"},{"date": "2014-08-19T12:59:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I\u2019m up here in the land of the midnight sun at 68.4 degrees latitude, with summer temperatures approaching 30C. However, all good things must come to an end, and the sun will dip down to the horizon at about 2am. Attentive folks will say it should be midnight, no? Reason is that we need to follow Alberta\u2019s mountain time for convenience, rather than the true time given by our longitude. If you follow the longitude down from Inuvik, you end up in the Pacific Ocean far west of Vancouver.This is my second time living in Inuvik in the Mackenzie Delta region of the Northwest Territories. This time I moved from Ragged Ass Road in Yellowknife. The first trip to Inuvik was exactly 18 years ago, and that was quite an adventure. The most eventful part of the 3,200km journey from Edmonton was travelling the Dempster Highway from Dawson City, Yukon up to Inuvik, a distance of 740km on tyre-punishing crushed black shale. The trip involved a large semi-trailer truck trying to force us off the road (the old Saab ran well, even with two wheels over the shoulder), and a lightning strike right beside the car in a foggy drive over a mountain crest right up in the clouds in the Richardson mountain range. That was a window-rattling explosion like a mine blast under a tank in a second world war movie.So moving back to Inuvik is like coming home. They say when you venture to a remote community in the Arctic you will either love it or hate it. When my family of four moved here in 1996 we were ambivalent. However, go where the work is. Soon every trip south to the so-called civilised world seemed crowded and impersonal. So it is a treat to sit here again in the Cafe Gallery, sip my mocha, gnaw on a cranberry muffin and reminisce.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada"], "title": "Letter from Canada: true north"},{"date": "2014-07-24T12:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Buy Social brand and campaign were initially developed by Social Enterprise UK (SEUK) to increase awareness and market opportunities for their social enterprise members. Launched in 2012, Buy Social promotes trade between social enterprises and encourages private businesses and public sector bodies to procure goods and services from social enterprises. It also seeks to influence consumers' spending decisions. As SEUK chief executive Peter Holbrook explains: \"When you spend with a social enterprise, your money goes towards supporting a social enterprise's mission, helping to tackle some of society's most pressing problems.\"On June 16-17, Holbrook was in Vancouver, British Columbia to attend the launch of Buy Social Canada and join a social enterprise exchange between the UK and Canada, sponsored by the British Council. The event brought together early adopters in the social purchasing movement in Canada as well as representatives from municipal, provincial and federal governments, large and small businesses, and social enterprises.In his opening remarks, Don McRae, the minister of social development and Social Innovation in British Columbia, clearly stated the summit's shared goal: \"We all want to see a better world and buying social is a way to get there.\"Buy Social is an emerging initiative, but it has a promising future in Canada. Its potential is often compared to the success of campaigns to promote environmentally-friendly purchasing. Our aim in launching the campaign in Canada was to provide consumers with a fourth criterion in making their purchasing decisions. While we will always use price and quality as key metrics, we now also employ environmental impact. We hope that social benefit will become that fourth screen and that by encouraging consumers to buy social we will not just avoid the risk of a social crisis, but actually create economic and social opportunities and use market forces to solve long term, complex social problems. We are at the beginning of a major process, but the UK's experience provides a useful model \u2013 as did Peter Holbrook's advice that we: \"Start simply, start small, and the rest will follow.\"In seeking to encourage corporations to buy social, one key challenge is helping them align CSR goals and purchasing processes. As a corporate sponsor of the Buy Social launch, TELUS, a major Canadian telecommunications provider, offered their perspective.Corinne Campney, manager of community investment, explained that this was the first time in her 25-year career with TELUS that she was in the same room with someone from the purchasing department. CSR was traditionally charity and community service focused, while procurement was driven by price, quality and risk avoidance. But now, as they seek to diversity their supply chains, businesses are facing the emerging challenge of how to add social enterprise to the mix . Being able to facilitate that internal dialogue within TELUS, a multi-billion dollar company, was quite a success for the summit. And it underscored the point made by Peter Holbrook that: \"big businesses are getting the message: buying social is mutually beneficial.\"Purchasing CultureLogistical issues such as contract size were also mentioned as barriers, but the obstacles presented by \"traditional purchasing culture\" were the most daunting. Social enterprise consultant Sandra Hamilton told the story of working with a potential University food purchaser. She laughed as she explained how she had to lug a 100-page copy of international and inter-provincial trade agreements to deflect 'red herring' dismissals of why they couldn't consider local, rural food producers in their supply chain. She won over the leadership and the purchasers, leading to local purchasing commencing this fall semester!One social enterprise manager, Brian Postlewaite of Mission Possible, an employment service providing building management services, detailed how hard it can be to simply bid for some contracts. \"Social purchasing development isn't always about introducing a change management process, sometimes it requires changing the management.\"Following round table discussions on barriers and opportunities, the summit agenda moved onto a 'solutions salon' for the final hours. The British Columbia government is emerging as an early solutions collaborator. In his address, social development minister Don McRae noted that he had \"directed ministry staff to examine opportunities to work within government's existing procurement policy to bring forward options for government's consideration.\"Janice Abbott, who is the executive director of Atira Women's Resource, a non-profit charitable organization, as well as the chief executive of their for-profit subsidiary, Atira Property Management, challenged the entire group: \"We all need to look at our internal policies and how we're supporting each other. We need to walk the walk.\"Early adoptersThe Buy Social Canada Summit was an important catalyst for enhanced efforts across the country. Fortunately, we aren't starting from scratch. Twelve years ago, I and others helped launch Canada's first Social Purchasing Portals. The 2010 Winter Olympics broke ground by procuring from social enterprises. Currently in Toronto, the Learning Enrichment Foundation and the Toronto Enterprise Fund are leading a joint effort to introduce social purchasing in a major transportation infrastructure development and at the 2015 Pan-Am Games.Adding the brand and campaign potential of the UK's Buy Social to our existing toolbox will be key to our future success in Canada. We need to move beyond the early adopters list and engage more corporate and institutional purchasers. We need to move from government policy discussion to enacting legislation like the UK Social Value Act. We need our list of Buy Social certified social enterprises to reach into the thousands, with a diversity of products, services and social impact solutions.There is a journey ahead of us of course, but as Peter Frampton of the Learning Enrichment Foundation and Buy Social Canada partner pointed out at the summit opening: \"Buying social is much easier than getting pigs to fly, so let's get on with it.\"David LePage is the co-Founder of Buy Social Canada and Principal at Accelerating Social Impact CCC, Ltd. You can follow the progress of Buy Social Canada @buysocialcanada.More from the British Council partnerzone:\u2022 The importance of social enterprise in Korea's overseas aid work\u2022 Catalysing the global market of impact investment\u2022 Putting social enterprise at the heart of higher educationCopy on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "Buy Social launches in Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-16T11:45:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Union Jack currently occupies space on three of Canada\u2019s provincial flags \u2013 by Friday all may be historical artifacts. The Scottish referendum is currently too close to call, but even if Scotland votes to stay, Britishness \u2013 as an idea and a way of being \u2013 has died in the process of debating it. Should the United Kingdom survive, it will survive out of economic fear. The lie that Britain deserves to survive as anything other than a bad arrangement handed down from history has been called out. And it brings me hope: if Scotland has the guts to reject the fundamental hypocrisy, vulgar classism and demand for self-contempt that Britishness demands, maybe Canada can work up the courage to do the same.Scots built Canada under the banner of Britain. Sir John A MacDonald, the father of Confederation, rejected Chinese citizenship exactly because, as he said, the Chinese immigrant \u201chas no British instincts or British feelings or aspirations, and therefore ought not to have a vote.\u201d Canada is its own country, of course, but British instincts and feelings and aspirations have been steeped into Canada, to the point where in some regards we are more British than the British. My nation\u2019s motto is \u201cpeace, order and good government\u201d \u2013 and each of those three principles is applied with the utmost sincerity. We really believe in those values.The anglo elite, clustered mostly in Toronto now, continues to ape British culture, as they have done for 200 years. When David Cameron went looking for the ideal British banker, he found the man in Toronto \u2013 the upright, clean-cut, sober Mark Carney. Mordechai Richler called them the \u201cWestmount Rhodesians\u201d. They still run most of the political and business institutions in the country, with all the widespread influence that comes with those positions. To live within Britishness is to live away from where the things that matter happen. Its cozy little markers \u2013 tea and biscuits, James Bond, all that playacting from the opening of the London Olympics \u2013 are covers for the ruthlessness of conquest and the dehumanizing hierarchy of class. Hypocrisy has been the defining trait of Britishness, in small and in grand things both. The rajas of India could not understand how the men Britain sent them could be so scrupulous in points of personal honour and then tell outright lies when it came to their treaty obligations. These grand hypocrisies are backed up by a million small hypocrisies, like saying \u201csorry\u201d when you don\u2019t mean \u201csorry\u201d \u2013 Canada\u2019s national verbal tic. The British call this manners.For Canada, the cost of Britishness has been the survival of the colonial mentality, the ineradicable belief that the real world is elsewhere and anyone who wants to make a mark must leave. The 1995 referendum on Quebec Independence was a crisis that nearly ended the country, but the problem with Canada has never been Quebec\u2019s quite natural desire to preserve its identity. The problem is that the rest of the country is always looking elsewhere for its identity. Given the ethnic makeup of the country, not just in Quebec but in the rest of the country as well, Britishness \u2013 the subservient connection to England \u2013 is humiliating and degrading and just plain silly. Why is some old English lady still on my money?That is what the Scots have done \u2013 they have made Britain look silly. They have made it look silly because it is silly. What has become painfully obvious watching the campaign from here is the inability of the pro-British forces to articulate a decent reason for their continued existence. Talk of the \u201cfamily of nations\u201d is the blubbering sentimentality of the defunct bully. Talk of a \u201cnasty divorce\u201d is a final retreat into threat.There is barely a trace of republicanism in Canada, I should point out; mentioning Constitutional Reform here is a social gaffe roughly on the level of farting in soup. Nobody wants to fight battles here the way the Scots are fighting them over there. Quebec separatism is at low ebb. The Parti Quebecois is out of power, after a humiliating attempt to win the provincial election on immigrant-baiting. It has become clear in the past two decades that Quebec\u2019s distinct culture can survive inside Canada. It has also become clear that in terms of the things that really matter \u2013 health care and education and which wars to go to \u2013 generally speaking Quebec and the rest of Canada are really very similar indeed. The reason we\u2019re so similar isn\u2019t that surprising: we built a country together.It is exactly that commonality that the British can no longer muster. The Union Jack may still fly over Scotland at the end of this week, but the ones that fly over Canadian capitals are already anachronistic embarrassments. Maybe if the Union Jack lowers from the masts of the United Kingdom, we can finally lower it from ours.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Canada", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Americas", "British identity and society"], "title": "Why Canada wants Scotland to vote 'yes' | Stephen Marche"},{"date": "2014-08-19T12:59:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I\u2019m up here in the land of the midnight sun at 68.4 degrees latitude, with summer temperatures approaching 30C. However, all good things must come to an end, and the sun will dip down to the horizon at about 2am. Attentive folks will say it should be midnight, no? Reason is that we need to follow Alberta\u2019s mountain time for convenience, rather than the true time given by our longitude. If you follow the longitude down from Inuvik, you end up in the Pacific Ocean far west of Vancouver.This is my second time living in Inuvik in the Mackenzie Delta region of the Northwest Territories. This time I moved from Ragged Ass Road in Yellowknife. The first trip to Inuvik was exactly 18 years ago, and that was quite an adventure. The most eventful part of the 3,200km journey from Edmonton was travelling the Dempster Highway from Dawson City, Yukon up to Inuvik, a distance of 740km on tyre-punishing crushed black shale. The trip involved a large semi-trailer truck trying to force us off the road (the old Saab ran well, even with two wheels over the shoulder), and a lightning strike right beside the car in a foggy drive over a mountain crest right up in the clouds in the Richardson mountain range. That was a window-rattling explosion like a mine blast under a tank in a second world war movie.So moving back to Inuvik is like coming home. They say when you venture to a remote community in the Arctic you will either love it or hate it. When my family of four moved here in 1996 we were ambivalent. However, go where the work is. Soon every trip south to the so-called civilised world seemed crowded and impersonal. So it is a treat to sit here again in the Cafe Gallery, sip my mocha, gnaw on a cranberry muffin and reminisce.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada"], "title": "Letter from Canada: true north"},{"date": "2014-07-24T12:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Buy Social brand and campaign were initially developed by Social Enterprise UK (SEUK) to increase awareness and market opportunities for their social enterprise members. Launched in 2012, Buy Social promotes trade between social enterprises and encourages private businesses and public sector bodies to procure goods and services from social enterprises. It also seeks to influence consumers' spending decisions. As SEUK chief executive Peter Holbrook explains: \"When you spend with a social enterprise, your money goes towards supporting a social enterprise's mission, helping to tackle some of society's most pressing problems.\"On June 16-17, Holbrook was in Vancouver, British Columbia to attend the launch of Buy Social Canada and join a social enterprise exchange between the UK and Canada, sponsored by the British Council. The event brought together early adopters in the social purchasing movement in Canada as well as representatives from municipal, provincial and federal governments, large and small businesses, and social enterprises.In his opening remarks, Don McRae, the minister of social development and Social Innovation in British Columbia, clearly stated the summit's shared goal: \"We all want to see a better world and buying social is a way to get there.\"Buy Social is an emerging initiative, but it has a promising future in Canada. Its potential is often compared to the success of campaigns to promote environmentally-friendly purchasing. Our aim in launching the campaign in Canada was to provide consumers with a fourth criterion in making their purchasing decisions. While we will always use price and quality as key metrics, we now also employ environmental impact. We hope that social benefit will become that fourth screen and that by encouraging consumers to buy social we will not just avoid the risk of a social crisis, but actually create economic and social opportunities and use market forces to solve long term, complex social problems. We are at the beginning of a major process, but the UK's experience provides a useful model \u2013 as did Peter Holbrook's advice that we: \"Start simply, start small, and the rest will follow.\"In seeking to encourage corporations to buy social, one key challenge is helping them align CSR goals and purchasing processes. As a corporate sponsor of the Buy Social launch, TELUS, a major Canadian telecommunications provider, offered their perspective.Corinne Campney, manager of community investment, explained that this was the first time in her 25-year career with TELUS that she was in the same room with someone from the purchasing department. CSR was traditionally charity and community service focused, while procurement was driven by price, quality and risk avoidance. But now, as they seek to diversity their supply chains, businesses are facing the emerging challenge of how to add social enterprise to the mix . Being able to facilitate that internal dialogue within TELUS, a multi-billion dollar company, was quite a success for the summit. And it underscored the point made by Peter Holbrook that: \"big businesses are getting the message: buying social is mutually beneficial.\"Purchasing CultureLogistical issues such as contract size were also mentioned as barriers, but the obstacles presented by \"traditional purchasing culture\" were the most daunting. Social enterprise consultant Sandra Hamilton told the story of working with a potential University food purchaser. She laughed as she explained how she had to lug a 100-page copy of international and inter-provincial trade agreements to deflect 'red herring' dismissals of why they couldn't consider local, rural food producers in their supply chain. She won over the leadership and the purchasers, leading to local purchasing commencing this fall semester!One social enterprise manager, Brian Postlewaite of Mission Possible, an employment service providing building management services, detailed how hard it can be to simply bid for some contracts. \"Social purchasing development isn't always about introducing a change management process, sometimes it requires changing the management.\"Following round table discussions on barriers and opportunities, the summit agenda moved onto a 'solutions salon' for the final hours. The British Columbia government is emerging as an early solutions collaborator. In his address, social development minister Don McRae noted that he had \"directed ministry staff to examine opportunities to work within government's existing procurement policy to bring forward options for government's consideration.\"Janice Abbott, who is the executive director of Atira Women's Resource, a non-profit charitable organization, as well as the chief executive of their for-profit subsidiary, Atira Property Management, challenged the entire group: \"We all need to look at our internal policies and how we're supporting each other. We need to walk the walk.\"Early adoptersThe Buy Social Canada Summit was an important catalyst for enhanced efforts across the country. Fortunately, we aren't starting from scratch. Twelve years ago, I and others helped launch Canada's first Social Purchasing Portals. The 2010 Winter Olympics broke ground by procuring from social enterprises. Currently in Toronto, the Learning Enrichment Foundation and the Toronto Enterprise Fund are leading a joint effort to introduce social purchasing in a major transportation infrastructure development and at the 2015 Pan-Am Games.Adding the brand and campaign potential of the UK's Buy Social to our existing toolbox will be key to our future success in Canada. We need to move beyond the early adopters list and engage more corporate and institutional purchasers. We need to move from government policy discussion to enacting legislation like the UK Social Value Act. We need our list of Buy Social certified social enterprises to reach into the thousands, with a diversity of products, services and social impact solutions.There is a journey ahead of us of course, but as Peter Frampton of the Learning Enrichment Foundation and Buy Social Canada partner pointed out at the summit opening: \"Buying social is much easier than getting pigs to fly, so let's get on with it.\"David LePage is the co-Founder of Buy Social Canada and Principal at Accelerating Social Impact CCC, Ltd. You can follow the progress of Buy Social Canada @buysocialcanada.More from the British Council partnerzone:\u2022 The importance of social enterprise in Korea's overseas aid work\u2022 Catalysing the global market of impact investment\u2022 Putting social enterprise at the heart of higher educationCopy on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "Buy Social launches in Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-16T11:45:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Union Jack currently occupies space on three of Canada\u2019s provincial flags \u2013 by Friday all may be historical artifacts. The Scottish referendum is currently too close to call, but even if Scotland votes to stay, Britishness \u2013 as an idea and a way of being \u2013 has died in the process of debating it. Should the United Kingdom survive, it will survive out of economic fear. The lie that Britain deserves to survive as anything other than a bad arrangement handed down from history has been called out. And it brings me hope: if Scotland has the guts to reject the fundamental hypocrisy, vulgar classism and demand for self-contempt that Britishness demands, maybe Canada can work up the courage to do the same.Scots built Canada under the banner of Britain. Sir John A MacDonald, the father of Confederation, rejected Chinese citizenship exactly because, as he said, the Chinese immigrant \u201chas no British instincts or British feelings or aspirations, and therefore ought not to have a vote.\u201d Canada is its own country, of course, but British instincts and feelings and aspirations have been steeped into Canada, to the point where in some regards we are more British than the British. My nation\u2019s motto is \u201cpeace, order and good government\u201d \u2013 and each of those three principles is applied with the utmost sincerity. We really believe in those values.The anglo elite, clustered mostly in Toronto now, continues to ape British culture, as they have done for 200 years. When David Cameron went looking for the ideal British banker, he found the man in Toronto \u2013 the upright, clean-cut, sober Mark Carney. Mordechai Richler called them the \u201cWestmount Rhodesians\u201d. They still run most of the political and business institutions in the country, with all the widespread influence that comes with those positions. To live within Britishness is to live away from where the things that matter happen. Its cozy little markers \u2013 tea and biscuits, James Bond, all that playacting from the opening of the London Olympics \u2013 are covers for the ruthlessness of conquest and the dehumanizing hierarchy of class. Hypocrisy has been the defining trait of Britishness, in small and in grand things both. The rajas of India could not understand how the men Britain sent them could be so scrupulous in points of personal honour and then tell outright lies when it came to their treaty obligations. These grand hypocrisies are backed up by a million small hypocrisies, like saying \u201csorry\u201d when you don\u2019t mean \u201csorry\u201d \u2013 Canada\u2019s national verbal tic. The British call this manners.For Canada, the cost of Britishness has been the survival of the colonial mentality, the ineradicable belief that the real world is elsewhere and anyone who wants to make a mark must leave. The 1995 referendum on Quebec Independence was a crisis that nearly ended the country, but the problem with Canada has never been Quebec\u2019s quite natural desire to preserve its identity. The problem is that the rest of the country is always looking elsewhere for its identity. Given the ethnic makeup of the country, not just in Quebec but in the rest of the country as well, Britishness \u2013 the subservient connection to England \u2013 is humiliating and degrading and just plain silly. Why is some old English lady still on my money?That is what the Scots have done \u2013 they have made Britain look silly. They have made it look silly because it is silly. What has become painfully obvious watching the campaign from here is the inability of the pro-British forces to articulate a decent reason for their continued existence. Talk of the \u201cfamily of nations\u201d is the blubbering sentimentality of the defunct bully. Talk of a \u201cnasty divorce\u201d is a final retreat into threat.There is barely a trace of republicanism in Canada, I should point out; mentioning Constitutional Reform here is a social gaffe roughly on the level of farting in soup. Nobody wants to fight battles here the way the Scots are fighting them over there. Quebec separatism is at low ebb. The Parti Quebecois is out of power, after a humiliating attempt to win the provincial election on immigrant-baiting. It has become clear in the past two decades that Quebec\u2019s distinct culture can survive inside Canada. It has also become clear that in terms of the things that really matter \u2013 health care and education and which wars to go to \u2013 generally speaking Quebec and the rest of Canada are really very similar indeed. The reason we\u2019re so similar isn\u2019t that surprising: we built a country together.It is exactly that commonality that the British can no longer muster. The Union Jack may still fly over Scotland at the end of this week, but the ones that fly over Canadian capitals are already anachronistic embarrassments. Maybe if the Union Jack lowers from the masts of the United Kingdom, we can finally lower it from ours.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Canada", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Americas", "British identity and society"], "title": "Why Canada wants Scotland to vote 'yes' | Stephen Marche"},{"date": "2014-09-24T13:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "With help from the Rainforest Alliance, a brave young Costa Rican tree frog is traveling around the world to make new friends and find out what humans are doing to help save her home. This is the second in a series of five weekly dispatches about her experiences.Summer\u2019s in high season, and Mr Frank spends every waking daylight hour in his backyard, an edible oasis bursting with blooms and birds. He\u2019s up early blending in compost with his hand trowel. He leans back and surveys the rows of beans, broccoli and eggplant. Mr F (as the kids refer to their beloved science teacher) grimaces at the yellowing spinach \u2013 his personal challenge \u2013 but beams at his prize heirloom tomatoes. He plucks a juicy beefsteak from the vine and takes a bite.Unlike most home gardeners, Mr F delights researching and experimenting with different heirlooms \u2013 sprouting them from seed. He\u2019s especially proud of his discovery of the \u201cmortgage lifter\u201d. True to its name, these tomatoes\u2019 sales at his local farmers\u2019 market have trimmed his summer energy bill nicely. That\u2019s one reason Mrs F has tolerated the gradual takeover of the garage with gardening supplies. But since their shared Prius no longer fits in the garage, Mrs F has decided it\u2019s time for an honest-to-goodness gardening shed. Soon a truck arrives with a massive box emblazoned \u201cDIY Garden Shed.\u201d But I smell something rotten and it has nothing to do with fallen fruit under the cherry trees. Before the box is off the tailgate, we\u2019re inspecting it for the Forest Stewardship Council seal. \u201cYou know, I thought this product was sustainably harvested, eh?\u201d I say in my best Canadian accent. \u201cBut I can\u2019t find that FSC seal anywhere. How else can we know that the great boreal forests aren\u2019t being clear cut, that our water is being protected \u2026 and that the wildlife remain plentiful?\u201d Mr F goes into science teacher mode. \u201cI don\u2019t see any proof on this box,\u201d he says. \u201cWe\u2019re sending it back.\u201d Mr F goes on about life without trees, caribou and trout. That\u2019s when the driver recognizes his old teacher; he knows it\u2019s pointless to resist. \u201cAll right, Mr F,\u201d he says with a slow nod. \u201cWe\u2019ll get the right kit. And then maybe we\u2019ll be back for some of those tomatoes.\u201dContent on this page is provided by the Rainforest Alliance, supporter of the Vital Signs platform. ", "tags": ["Rainforest Alliance partner zone"], "title": "Frog diaries: join the Rainforest Alliance frog in Canada"},{"date": "2014-08-19T12:59:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I\u2019m up here in the land of the midnight sun at 68.4 degrees latitude, with summer temperatures approaching 30C. However, all good things must come to an end, and the sun will dip down to the horizon at about 2am. Attentive folks will say it should be midnight, no? Reason is that we need to follow Alberta\u2019s mountain time for convenience, rather than the true time given by our longitude. If you follow the longitude down from Inuvik, you end up in the Pacific Ocean far west of Vancouver.This is my second time living in Inuvik in the Mackenzie Delta region of the Northwest Territories. This time I moved from Ragged Ass Road in Yellowknife. The first trip to Inuvik was exactly 18 years ago, and that was quite an adventure. The most eventful part of the 3,200km journey from Edmonton was travelling the Dempster Highway from Dawson City, Yukon up to Inuvik, a distance of 740km on tyre-punishing crushed black shale. The trip involved a large semi-trailer truck trying to force us off the road (the old Saab ran well, even with two wheels over the shoulder), and a lightning strike right beside the car in a foggy drive over a mountain crest right up in the clouds in the Richardson mountain range. That was a window-rattling explosion like a mine blast under a tank in a second world war movie.So moving back to Inuvik is like coming home. They say when you venture to a remote community in the Arctic you will either love it or hate it. When my family of four moved here in 1996 we were ambivalent. However, go where the work is. Soon every trip south to the so-called civilised world seemed crowded and impersonal. So it is a treat to sit here again in the Cafe Gallery, sip my mocha, gnaw on a cranberry muffin and reminisce.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada"], "title": "Letter from Canada: true north"},{"date": "2014-07-24T12:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Buy Social brand and campaign were initially developed by Social Enterprise UK (SEUK) to increase awareness and market opportunities for their social enterprise members. Launched in 2012, Buy Social promotes trade between social enterprises and encourages private businesses and public sector bodies to procure goods and services from social enterprises. It also seeks to influence consumers' spending decisions. As SEUK chief executive Peter Holbrook explains: \"When you spend with a social enterprise, your money goes towards supporting a social enterprise's mission, helping to tackle some of society's most pressing problems.\"On June 16-17, Holbrook was in Vancouver, British Columbia to attend the launch of Buy Social Canada and join a social enterprise exchange between the UK and Canada, sponsored by the British Council. The event brought together early adopters in the social purchasing movement in Canada as well as representatives from municipal, provincial and federal governments, large and small businesses, and social enterprises.In his opening remarks, Don McRae, the minister of social development and Social Innovation in British Columbia, clearly stated the summit's shared goal: \"We all want to see a better world and buying social is a way to get there.\"Buy Social is an emerging initiative, but it has a promising future in Canada. Its potential is often compared to the success of campaigns to promote environmentally-friendly purchasing. Our aim in launching the campaign in Canada was to provide consumers with a fourth criterion in making their purchasing decisions. While we will always use price and quality as key metrics, we now also employ environmental impact. We hope that social benefit will become that fourth screen and that by encouraging consumers to buy social we will not just avoid the risk of a social crisis, but actually create economic and social opportunities and use market forces to solve long term, complex social problems. We are at the beginning of a major process, but the UK's experience provides a useful model \u2013 as did Peter Holbrook's advice that we: \"Start simply, start small, and the rest will follow.\"In seeking to encourage corporations to buy social, one key challenge is helping them align CSR goals and purchasing processes. As a corporate sponsor of the Buy Social launch, TELUS, a major Canadian telecommunications provider, offered their perspective.Corinne Campney, manager of community investment, explained that this was the first time in her 25-year career with TELUS that she was in the same room with someone from the purchasing department. CSR was traditionally charity and community service focused, while procurement was driven by price, quality and risk avoidance. But now, as they seek to diversity their supply chains, businesses are facing the emerging challenge of how to add social enterprise to the mix . Being able to facilitate that internal dialogue within TELUS, a multi-billion dollar company, was quite a success for the summit. And it underscored the point made by Peter Holbrook that: \"big businesses are getting the message: buying social is mutually beneficial.\"Purchasing CultureLogistical issues such as contract size were also mentioned as barriers, but the obstacles presented by \"traditional purchasing culture\" were the most daunting. Social enterprise consultant Sandra Hamilton told the story of working with a potential University food purchaser. She laughed as she explained how she had to lug a 100-page copy of international and inter-provincial trade agreements to deflect 'red herring' dismissals of why they couldn't consider local, rural food producers in their supply chain. She won over the leadership and the purchasers, leading to local purchasing commencing this fall semester!One social enterprise manager, Brian Postlewaite of Mission Possible, an employment service providing building management services, detailed how hard it can be to simply bid for some contracts. \"Social purchasing development isn't always about introducing a change management process, sometimes it requires changing the management.\"Following round table discussions on barriers and opportunities, the summit agenda moved onto a 'solutions salon' for the final hours. The British Columbia government is emerging as an early solutions collaborator. In his address, social development minister Don McRae noted that he had \"directed ministry staff to examine opportunities to work within government's existing procurement policy to bring forward options for government's consideration.\"Janice Abbott, who is the executive director of Atira Women's Resource, a non-profit charitable organization, as well as the chief executive of their for-profit subsidiary, Atira Property Management, challenged the entire group: \"We all need to look at our internal policies and how we're supporting each other. We need to walk the walk.\"Early adoptersThe Buy Social Canada Summit was an important catalyst for enhanced efforts across the country. Fortunately, we aren't starting from scratch. Twelve years ago, I and others helped launch Canada's first Social Purchasing Portals. The 2010 Winter Olympics broke ground by procuring from social enterprises. Currently in Toronto, the Learning Enrichment Foundation and the Toronto Enterprise Fund are leading a joint effort to introduce social purchasing in a major transportation infrastructure development and at the 2015 Pan-Am Games.Adding the brand and campaign potential of the UK's Buy Social to our existing toolbox will be key to our future success in Canada. We need to move beyond the early adopters list and engage more corporate and institutional purchasers. We need to move from government policy discussion to enacting legislation like the UK Social Value Act. We need our list of Buy Social certified social enterprises to reach into the thousands, with a diversity of products, services and social impact solutions.There is a journey ahead of us of course, but as Peter Frampton of the Learning Enrichment Foundation and Buy Social Canada partner pointed out at the summit opening: \"Buying social is much easier than getting pigs to fly, so let's get on with it.\"David LePage is the co-Founder of Buy Social Canada and Principal at Accelerating Social Impact CCC, Ltd. You can follow the progress of Buy Social Canada @buysocialcanada.More from the British Council partnerzone:\u2022 The importance of social enterprise in Korea's overseas aid work\u2022 Catalysing the global market of impact investment\u2022 Putting social enterprise at the heart of higher educationCopy on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "Buy Social launches in Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-16T11:45:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Union Jack currently occupies space on three of Canada\u2019s provincial flags \u2013 by Friday all may be historical artifacts. The Scottish referendum is currently too close to call, but even if Scotland votes to stay, Britishness \u2013 as an idea and a way of being \u2013 has died in the process of debating it. Should the United Kingdom survive, it will survive out of economic fear. The lie that Britain deserves to survive as anything other than a bad arrangement handed down from history has been called out. And it brings me hope: if Scotland has the guts to reject the fundamental hypocrisy, vulgar classism and demand for self-contempt that Britishness demands, maybe Canada can work up the courage to do the same.Scots built Canada under the banner of Britain. Sir John A MacDonald, the father of Confederation, rejected Chinese citizenship exactly because, as he said, the Chinese immigrant \u201chas no British instincts or British feelings or aspirations, and therefore ought not to have a vote.\u201d Canada is its own country, of course, but British instincts and feelings and aspirations have been steeped into Canada, to the point where in some regards we are more British than the British. My nation\u2019s motto is \u201cpeace, order and good government\u201d \u2013 and each of those three principles is applied with the utmost sincerity. We really believe in those values.The anglo elite, clustered mostly in Toronto now, continues to ape British culture, as they have done for 200 years. When David Cameron went looking for the ideal British banker, he found the man in Toronto \u2013 the upright, clean-cut, sober Mark Carney. Mordechai Richler called them the \u201cWestmount Rhodesians\u201d. They still run most of the political and business institutions in the country, with all the widespread influence that comes with those positions. To live within Britishness is to live away from where the things that matter happen. Its cozy little markers \u2013 tea and biscuits, James Bond, all that playacting from the opening of the London Olympics \u2013 are covers for the ruthlessness of conquest and the dehumanizing hierarchy of class. Hypocrisy has been the defining trait of Britishness, in small and in grand things both. The rajas of India could not understand how the men Britain sent them could be so scrupulous in points of personal honour and then tell outright lies when it came to their treaty obligations. These grand hypocrisies are backed up by a million small hypocrisies, like saying \u201csorry\u201d when you don\u2019t mean \u201csorry\u201d \u2013 Canada\u2019s national verbal tic. The British call this manners.For Canada, the cost of Britishness has been the survival of the colonial mentality, the ineradicable belief that the real world is elsewhere and anyone who wants to make a mark must leave. The 1995 referendum on Quebec Independence was a crisis that nearly ended the country, but the problem with Canada has never been Quebec\u2019s quite natural desire to preserve its identity. The problem is that the rest of the country is always looking elsewhere for its identity. Given the ethnic makeup of the country, not just in Quebec but in the rest of the country as well, Britishness \u2013 the subservient connection to England \u2013 is humiliating and degrading and just plain silly. Why is some old English lady still on my money?That is what the Scots have done \u2013 they have made Britain look silly. They have made it look silly because it is silly. What has become painfully obvious watching the campaign from here is the inability of the pro-British forces to articulate a decent reason for their continued existence. Talk of the \u201cfamily of nations\u201d is the blubbering sentimentality of the defunct bully. Talk of a \u201cnasty divorce\u201d is a final retreat into threat.There is barely a trace of republicanism in Canada, I should point out; mentioning Constitutional Reform here is a social gaffe roughly on the level of farting in soup. Nobody wants to fight battles here the way the Scots are fighting them over there. Quebec separatism is at low ebb. The Parti Quebecois is out of power, after a humiliating attempt to win the provincial election on immigrant-baiting. It has become clear in the past two decades that Quebec\u2019s distinct culture can survive inside Canada. It has also become clear that in terms of the things that really matter \u2013 health care and education and which wars to go to \u2013 generally speaking Quebec and the rest of Canada are really very similar indeed. The reason we\u2019re so similar isn\u2019t that surprising: we built a country together.It is exactly that commonality that the British can no longer muster. The Union Jack may still fly over Scotland at the end of this week, but the ones that fly over Canadian capitals are already anachronistic embarrassments. Maybe if the Union Jack lowers from the masts of the United Kingdom, we can finally lower it from ours.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Canada", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Americas", "British identity and society"], "title": "Why Canada wants Scotland to vote 'yes' | Stephen Marche"},{"date": "2014-09-24T13:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "With help from the Rainforest Alliance, a brave young Costa Rican tree frog is traveling around the world to make new friends and find out what humans are doing to help save her home. This is the second in a series of five weekly dispatches about her experiences.Summer\u2019s in high season, and Mr Frank spends every waking daylight hour in his backyard, an edible oasis bursting with blooms and birds. He\u2019s up early blending in compost with his hand trowel. He leans back and surveys the rows of beans, broccoli and eggplant. Mr F (as the kids refer to their beloved science teacher) grimaces at the yellowing spinach \u2013 his personal challenge \u2013 but beams at his prize heirloom tomatoes. He plucks a juicy beefsteak from the vine and takes a bite.Unlike most home gardeners, Mr F delights researching and experimenting with different heirlooms \u2013 sprouting them from seed. He\u2019s especially proud of his discovery of the \u201cmortgage lifter\u201d. True to its name, these tomatoes\u2019 sales at his local farmers\u2019 market have trimmed his summer energy bill nicely. That\u2019s one reason Mrs F has tolerated the gradual takeover of the garage with gardening supplies. But since their shared Prius no longer fits in the garage, Mrs F has decided it\u2019s time for an honest-to-goodness gardening shed. Soon a truck arrives with a massive box emblazoned \u201cDIY Garden Shed.\u201d But I smell something rotten and it has nothing to do with fallen fruit under the cherry trees. Before the box is off the tailgate, we\u2019re inspecting it for the Forest Stewardship Council seal. \u201cYou know, I thought this product was sustainably harvested, eh?\u201d I say in my best Canadian accent. \u201cBut I can\u2019t find that FSC seal anywhere. How else can we know that the great boreal forests aren\u2019t being clear cut, that our water is being protected \u2026 and that the wildlife remain plentiful?\u201d Mr F goes into science teacher mode. \u201cI don\u2019t see any proof on this box,\u201d he says. \u201cWe\u2019re sending it back.\u201d Mr F goes on about life without trees, caribou and trout. That\u2019s when the driver recognizes his old teacher; he knows it\u2019s pointless to resist. \u201cAll right, Mr F,\u201d he says with a slow nod. \u201cWe\u2019ll get the right kit. And then maybe we\u2019ll be back for some of those tomatoes.\u201dContent on this page is provided by the Rainforest Alliance, supporter of the Vital Signs platform. ", "tags": ["Rainforest Alliance partner zone"], "title": "Frog diaries: join the Rainforest Alliance frog in Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-10T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The grisly and mysterious tale of two British ships that disappeared in the Arctic in 1845 has baffled generations and sparked one of history's longest rescue searches. But now, more than 160 years later, Canadian divers have finally found the remains of one of the doomed Navy vessels.Legend has it that sailors on board the HMS Erebus and HMS Terror, who were chosen by the explorer Sir John Franklin, resorted to cannibalism after the ships became ice-bound in the Victoria Strait in the Arctic territory of Nunavut.Search parties hunted for the crew until 1859, but no sign of either ship was discovered until now. However, tantalising clues have emerged over the years, including the bodies of three crewmen, discovered in the 1980s.The Franklin expedition's mission to the fabled Northwest Passage had frustrated explorers for centuries and the sea crossing was only successfully made 58 years later, far further north. The original search expeditions in the 19th century helped open up parts of the Canadian Arctic for discovery.Canadian divers and archaeologists rekindled efforts to find the ships in 2008 as the government looked to assert its sovereignty over the Northwest Passage.Announcing the find, Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper said: \"This is truly a historic moment for Canada. This has been a great Canadian story and mystery and the subject of scientists, historians, writers and singers, so I think we really have an important day in mapping the history of our country.\"\"Franklin's ships are an important part of Canadian history given that his expeditions, which took place nearly 200 years ago, laid the foundations of Canada's Arctic sovereignty,\" he said.An image of the discovery shows the wooden vessel has remained largely intact, though the main mast has been sheared off. The ship was resting upright on the sea bed only 11 meters below the surface. Searchers used remotely operated underwater technology to find the ship on Sunday, although it remains unclear which of the two vessels it is. The discovery comes shortly after divers found an iron fitting from one of the boats.The myths surrounding the Franklin expedition have helped make the vessels among the most sought-after prizes in marine archaeology.Experts believe the crews abandoned the two ships in a doomed bid to find help after both of their ships became locked in ice near King William Island.The remains of the crew were hard to find because they wandered for hundreds of miles over the ice and, at the time, the Inuit gave conflicted accounts of the directions they took. However, over the years traces of 70 crew members have been found.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Canada", "UK news"], "title": "British ship from 1845 Franklin expedition found by Canada"},{"date": "2014-08-19T12:59:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I\u2019m up here in the land of the midnight sun at 68.4 degrees latitude, with summer temperatures approaching 30C. However, all good things must come to an end, and the sun will dip down to the horizon at about 2am. Attentive folks will say it should be midnight, no? Reason is that we need to follow Alberta\u2019s mountain time for convenience, rather than the true time given by our longitude. If you follow the longitude down from Inuvik, you end up in the Pacific Ocean far west of Vancouver.This is my second time living in Inuvik in the Mackenzie Delta region of the Northwest Territories. This time I moved from Ragged Ass Road in Yellowknife. The first trip to Inuvik was exactly 18 years ago, and that was quite an adventure. The most eventful part of the 3,200km journey from Edmonton was travelling the Dempster Highway from Dawson City, Yukon up to Inuvik, a distance of 740km on tyre-punishing crushed black shale. The trip involved a large semi-trailer truck trying to force us off the road (the old Saab ran well, even with two wheels over the shoulder), and a lightning strike right beside the car in a foggy drive over a mountain crest right up in the clouds in the Richardson mountain range. That was a window-rattling explosion like a mine blast under a tank in a second world war movie.So moving back to Inuvik is like coming home. They say when you venture to a remote community in the Arctic you will either love it or hate it. When my family of four moved here in 1996 we were ambivalent. However, go where the work is. Soon every trip south to the so-called civilised world seemed crowded and impersonal. So it is a treat to sit here again in the Cafe Gallery, sip my mocha, gnaw on a cranberry muffin and reminisce.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada"], "title": "Letter from Canada: true north"},{"date": "2014-07-24T12:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Buy Social brand and campaign were initially developed by Social Enterprise UK (SEUK) to increase awareness and market opportunities for their social enterprise members. Launched in 2012, Buy Social promotes trade between social enterprises and encourages private businesses and public sector bodies to procure goods and services from social enterprises. It also seeks to influence consumers' spending decisions. As SEUK chief executive Peter Holbrook explains: \"When you spend with a social enterprise, your money goes towards supporting a social enterprise's mission, helping to tackle some of society's most pressing problems.\"On June 16-17, Holbrook was in Vancouver, British Columbia to attend the launch of Buy Social Canada and join a social enterprise exchange between the UK and Canada, sponsored by the British Council. The event brought together early adopters in the social purchasing movement in Canada as well as representatives from municipal, provincial and federal governments, large and small businesses, and social enterprises.In his opening remarks, Don McRae, the minister of social development and Social Innovation in British Columbia, clearly stated the summit's shared goal: \"We all want to see a better world and buying social is a way to get there.\"Buy Social is an emerging initiative, but it has a promising future in Canada. Its potential is often compared to the success of campaigns to promote environmentally-friendly purchasing. Our aim in launching the campaign in Canada was to provide consumers with a fourth criterion in making their purchasing decisions. While we will always use price and quality as key metrics, we now also employ environmental impact. We hope that social benefit will become that fourth screen and that by encouraging consumers to buy social we will not just avoid the risk of a social crisis, but actually create economic and social opportunities and use market forces to solve long term, complex social problems. We are at the beginning of a major process, but the UK's experience provides a useful model \u2013 as did Peter Holbrook's advice that we: \"Start simply, start small, and the rest will follow.\"In seeking to encourage corporations to buy social, one key challenge is helping them align CSR goals and purchasing processes. As a corporate sponsor of the Buy Social launch, TELUS, a major Canadian telecommunications provider, offered their perspective.Corinne Campney, manager of community investment, explained that this was the first time in her 25-year career with TELUS that she was in the same room with someone from the purchasing department. CSR was traditionally charity and community service focused, while procurement was driven by price, quality and risk avoidance. But now, as they seek to diversity their supply chains, businesses are facing the emerging challenge of how to add social enterprise to the mix . Being able to facilitate that internal dialogue within TELUS, a multi-billion dollar company, was quite a success for the summit. And it underscored the point made by Peter Holbrook that: \"big businesses are getting the message: buying social is mutually beneficial.\"Purchasing CultureLogistical issues such as contract size were also mentioned as barriers, but the obstacles presented by \"traditional purchasing culture\" were the most daunting. Social enterprise consultant Sandra Hamilton told the story of working with a potential University food purchaser. She laughed as she explained how she had to lug a 100-page copy of international and inter-provincial trade agreements to deflect 'red herring' dismissals of why they couldn't consider local, rural food producers in their supply chain. She won over the leadership and the purchasers, leading to local purchasing commencing this fall semester!One social enterprise manager, Brian Postlewaite of Mission Possible, an employment service providing building management services, detailed how hard it can be to simply bid for some contracts. \"Social purchasing development isn't always about introducing a change management process, sometimes it requires changing the management.\"Following round table discussions on barriers and opportunities, the summit agenda moved onto a 'solutions salon' for the final hours. The British Columbia government is emerging as an early solutions collaborator. In his address, social development minister Don McRae noted that he had \"directed ministry staff to examine opportunities to work within government's existing procurement policy to bring forward options for government's consideration.\"Janice Abbott, who is the executive director of Atira Women's Resource, a non-profit charitable organization, as well as the chief executive of their for-profit subsidiary, Atira Property Management, challenged the entire group: \"We all need to look at our internal policies and how we're supporting each other. We need to walk the walk.\"Early adoptersThe Buy Social Canada Summit was an important catalyst for enhanced efforts across the country. Fortunately, we aren't starting from scratch. Twelve years ago, I and others helped launch Canada's first Social Purchasing Portals. The 2010 Winter Olympics broke ground by procuring from social enterprises. Currently in Toronto, the Learning Enrichment Foundation and the Toronto Enterprise Fund are leading a joint effort to introduce social purchasing in a major transportation infrastructure development and at the 2015 Pan-Am Games.Adding the brand and campaign potential of the UK's Buy Social to our existing toolbox will be key to our future success in Canada. We need to move beyond the early adopters list and engage more corporate and institutional purchasers. We need to move from government policy discussion to enacting legislation like the UK Social Value Act. We need our list of Buy Social certified social enterprises to reach into the thousands, with a diversity of products, services and social impact solutions.There is a journey ahead of us of course, but as Peter Frampton of the Learning Enrichment Foundation and Buy Social Canada partner pointed out at the summit opening: \"Buying social is much easier than getting pigs to fly, so let's get on with it.\"David LePage is the co-Founder of Buy Social Canada and Principal at Accelerating Social Impact CCC, Ltd. You can follow the progress of Buy Social Canada @buysocialcanada.More from the British Council partnerzone:\u2022 The importance of social enterprise in Korea's overseas aid work\u2022 Catalysing the global market of impact investment\u2022 Putting social enterprise at the heart of higher educationCopy on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "Buy Social launches in Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-16T11:45:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Union Jack currently occupies space on three of Canada\u2019s provincial flags \u2013 by Friday all may be historical artifacts. The Scottish referendum is currently too close to call, but even if Scotland votes to stay, Britishness \u2013 as an idea and a way of being \u2013 has died in the process of debating it. Should the United Kingdom survive, it will survive out of economic fear. The lie that Britain deserves to survive as anything other than a bad arrangement handed down from history has been called out. And it brings me hope: if Scotland has the guts to reject the fundamental hypocrisy, vulgar classism and demand for self-contempt that Britishness demands, maybe Canada can work up the courage to do the same.Scots built Canada under the banner of Britain. Sir John A MacDonald, the father of Confederation, rejected Chinese citizenship exactly because, as he said, the Chinese immigrant \u201chas no British instincts or British feelings or aspirations, and therefore ought not to have a vote.\u201d Canada is its own country, of course, but British instincts and feelings and aspirations have been steeped into Canada, to the point where in some regards we are more British than the British. My nation\u2019s motto is \u201cpeace, order and good government\u201d \u2013 and each of those three principles is applied with the utmost sincerity. We really believe in those values.The anglo elite, clustered mostly in Toronto now, continues to ape British culture, as they have done for 200 years. When David Cameron went looking for the ideal British banker, he found the man in Toronto \u2013 the upright, clean-cut, sober Mark Carney. Mordechai Richler called them the \u201cWestmount Rhodesians\u201d. They still run most of the political and business institutions in the country, with all the widespread influence that comes with those positions. To live within Britishness is to live away from where the things that matter happen. Its cozy little markers \u2013 tea and biscuits, James Bond, all that playacting from the opening of the London Olympics \u2013 are covers for the ruthlessness of conquest and the dehumanizing hierarchy of class. Hypocrisy has been the defining trait of Britishness, in small and in grand things both. The rajas of India could not understand how the men Britain sent them could be so scrupulous in points of personal honour and then tell outright lies when it came to their treaty obligations. These grand hypocrisies are backed up by a million small hypocrisies, like saying \u201csorry\u201d when you don\u2019t mean \u201csorry\u201d \u2013 Canada\u2019s national verbal tic. The British call this manners.For Canada, the cost of Britishness has been the survival of the colonial mentality, the ineradicable belief that the real world is elsewhere and anyone who wants to make a mark must leave. The 1995 referendum on Quebec Independence was a crisis that nearly ended the country, but the problem with Canada has never been Quebec\u2019s quite natural desire to preserve its identity. The problem is that the rest of the country is always looking elsewhere for its identity. Given the ethnic makeup of the country, not just in Quebec but in the rest of the country as well, Britishness \u2013 the subservient connection to England \u2013 is humiliating and degrading and just plain silly. Why is some old English lady still on my money?That is what the Scots have done \u2013 they have made Britain look silly. They have made it look silly because it is silly. What has become painfully obvious watching the campaign from here is the inability of the pro-British forces to articulate a decent reason for their continued existence. Talk of the \u201cfamily of nations\u201d is the blubbering sentimentality of the defunct bully. Talk of a \u201cnasty divorce\u201d is a final retreat into threat.There is barely a trace of republicanism in Canada, I should point out; mentioning Constitutional Reform here is a social gaffe roughly on the level of farting in soup. Nobody wants to fight battles here the way the Scots are fighting them over there. Quebec separatism is at low ebb. The Parti Quebecois is out of power, after a humiliating attempt to win the provincial election on immigrant-baiting. It has become clear in the past two decades that Quebec\u2019s distinct culture can survive inside Canada. It has also become clear that in terms of the things that really matter \u2013 health care and education and which wars to go to \u2013 generally speaking Quebec and the rest of Canada are really very similar indeed. The reason we\u2019re so similar isn\u2019t that surprising: we built a country together.It is exactly that commonality that the British can no longer muster. The Union Jack may still fly over Scotland at the end of this week, but the ones that fly over Canadian capitals are already anachronistic embarrassments. Maybe if the Union Jack lowers from the masts of the United Kingdom, we can finally lower it from ours.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Canada", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Americas", "British identity and society"], "title": "Why Canada wants Scotland to vote 'yes' | Stephen Marche"},{"date": "2014-09-24T13:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "With help from the Rainforest Alliance, a brave young Costa Rican tree frog is traveling around the world to make new friends and find out what humans are doing to help save her home. This is the second in a series of five weekly dispatches about her experiences.Summer\u2019s in high season, and Mr Frank spends every waking daylight hour in his backyard, an edible oasis bursting with blooms and birds. He\u2019s up early blending in compost with his hand trowel. He leans back and surveys the rows of beans, broccoli and eggplant. Mr F (as the kids refer to their beloved science teacher) grimaces at the yellowing spinach \u2013 his personal challenge \u2013 but beams at his prize heirloom tomatoes. He plucks a juicy beefsteak from the vine and takes a bite.Unlike most home gardeners, Mr F delights researching and experimenting with different heirlooms \u2013 sprouting them from seed. He\u2019s especially proud of his discovery of the \u201cmortgage lifter\u201d. True to its name, these tomatoes\u2019 sales at his local farmers\u2019 market have trimmed his summer energy bill nicely. That\u2019s one reason Mrs F has tolerated the gradual takeover of the garage with gardening supplies. But since their shared Prius no longer fits in the garage, Mrs F has decided it\u2019s time for an honest-to-goodness gardening shed. Soon a truck arrives with a massive box emblazoned \u201cDIY Garden Shed.\u201d But I smell something rotten and it has nothing to do with fallen fruit under the cherry trees. Before the box is off the tailgate, we\u2019re inspecting it for the Forest Stewardship Council seal. \u201cYou know, I thought this product was sustainably harvested, eh?\u201d I say in my best Canadian accent. \u201cBut I can\u2019t find that FSC seal anywhere. How else can we know that the great boreal forests aren\u2019t being clear cut, that our water is being protected \u2026 and that the wildlife remain plentiful?\u201d Mr F goes into science teacher mode. \u201cI don\u2019t see any proof on this box,\u201d he says. \u201cWe\u2019re sending it back.\u201d Mr F goes on about life without trees, caribou and trout. That\u2019s when the driver recognizes his old teacher; he knows it\u2019s pointless to resist. \u201cAll right, Mr F,\u201d he says with a slow nod. \u201cWe\u2019ll get the right kit. And then maybe we\u2019ll be back for some of those tomatoes.\u201dContent on this page is provided by the Rainforest Alliance, supporter of the Vital Signs platform. ", "tags": ["Rainforest Alliance partner zone"], "title": "Frog diaries: join the Rainforest Alliance frog in Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-10T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The grisly and mysterious tale of two British ships that disappeared in the Arctic in 1845 has baffled generations and sparked one of history's longest rescue searches. But now, more than 160 years later, Canadian divers have finally found the remains of one of the doomed Navy vessels.Legend has it that sailors on board the HMS Erebus and HMS Terror, who were chosen by the explorer Sir John Franklin, resorted to cannibalism after the ships became ice-bound in the Victoria Strait in the Arctic territory of Nunavut.Search parties hunted for the crew until 1859, but no sign of either ship was discovered until now. However, tantalising clues have emerged over the years, including the bodies of three crewmen, discovered in the 1980s.The Franklin expedition's mission to the fabled Northwest Passage had frustrated explorers for centuries and the sea crossing was only successfully made 58 years later, far further north. The original search expeditions in the 19th century helped open up parts of the Canadian Arctic for discovery.Canadian divers and archaeologists rekindled efforts to find the ships in 2008 as the government looked to assert its sovereignty over the Northwest Passage.Announcing the find, Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper said: \"This is truly a historic moment for Canada. This has been a great Canadian story and mystery and the subject of scientists, historians, writers and singers, so I think we really have an important day in mapping the history of our country.\"\"Franklin's ships are an important part of Canadian history given that his expeditions, which took place nearly 200 years ago, laid the foundations of Canada's Arctic sovereignty,\" he said.An image of the discovery shows the wooden vessel has remained largely intact, though the main mast has been sheared off. The ship was resting upright on the sea bed only 11 meters below the surface. Searchers used remotely operated underwater technology to find the ship on Sunday, although it remains unclear which of the two vessels it is. The discovery comes shortly after divers found an iron fitting from one of the boats.The myths surrounding the Franklin expedition have helped make the vessels among the most sought-after prizes in marine archaeology.Experts believe the crews abandoned the two ships in a doomed bid to find help after both of their ships became locked in ice near King William Island.The remains of the crew were hard to find because they wandered for hundreds of miles over the ice and, at the time, the Inuit gave conflicted accounts of the directions they took. However, over the years traces of 70 crew members have been found.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Canada", "UK news"], "title": "British ship from 1845 Franklin expedition found by Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-02T16:43:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Pop star Justin Bieber was arrested Friday after crashing an ATV into a minivan and getting into a fight.Bieber, 20, was arrested at about 3pm Friday by Canadian provincial police and charged with assault and dangerous driving in rural southwestern Ontario, in the town of Perth East. Police said that Bieber\u2019s vehicle collided with a minivan and that Bieber then got into a fight with one of its occupants. Authorities didn\u2019t say whether anyone else was arrested in the incident, and declined to provide a mug shot.He was released without bail, and is scheduled to appear in Stratford, Ontario court on 29 September. Bieber is already on probation in California. It\u2019s unclear whether the arrest could constitute a violation. ", "tags": ["Justin Bieber", "Canada", "Americas", "Culture", "US news"], "title": "Justin Bieber arrested for assault and dangerous driving in Canada"},{"date": "2014-08-19T12:59:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I\u2019m up here in the land of the midnight sun at 68.4 degrees latitude, with summer temperatures approaching 30C. However, all good things must come to an end, and the sun will dip down to the horizon at about 2am. Attentive folks will say it should be midnight, no? Reason is that we need to follow Alberta\u2019s mountain time for convenience, rather than the true time given by our longitude. If you follow the longitude down from Inuvik, you end up in the Pacific Ocean far west of Vancouver.This is my second time living in Inuvik in the Mackenzie Delta region of the Northwest Territories. This time I moved from Ragged Ass Road in Yellowknife. The first trip to Inuvik was exactly 18 years ago, and that was quite an adventure. The most eventful part of the 3,200km journey from Edmonton was travelling the Dempster Highway from Dawson City, Yukon up to Inuvik, a distance of 740km on tyre-punishing crushed black shale. The trip involved a large semi-trailer truck trying to force us off the road (the old Saab ran well, even with two wheels over the shoulder), and a lightning strike right beside the car in a foggy drive over a mountain crest right up in the clouds in the Richardson mountain range. That was a window-rattling explosion like a mine blast under a tank in a second world war movie.So moving back to Inuvik is like coming home. They say when you venture to a remote community in the Arctic you will either love it or hate it. When my family of four moved here in 1996 we were ambivalent. However, go where the work is. Soon every trip south to the so-called civilised world seemed crowded and impersonal. So it is a treat to sit here again in the Cafe Gallery, sip my mocha, gnaw on a cranberry muffin and reminisce.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada"], "title": "Letter from Canada: true north"},{"date": "2014-07-24T12:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Buy Social brand and campaign were initially developed by Social Enterprise UK (SEUK) to increase awareness and market opportunities for their social enterprise members. Launched in 2012, Buy Social promotes trade between social enterprises and encourages private businesses and public sector bodies to procure goods and services from social enterprises. It also seeks to influence consumers' spending decisions. As SEUK chief executive Peter Holbrook explains: \"When you spend with a social enterprise, your money goes towards supporting a social enterprise's mission, helping to tackle some of society's most pressing problems.\"On June 16-17, Holbrook was in Vancouver, British Columbia to attend the launch of Buy Social Canada and join a social enterprise exchange between the UK and Canada, sponsored by the British Council. The event brought together early adopters in the social purchasing movement in Canada as well as representatives from municipal, provincial and federal governments, large and small businesses, and social enterprises.In his opening remarks, Don McRae, the minister of social development and Social Innovation in British Columbia, clearly stated the summit's shared goal: \"We all want to see a better world and buying social is a way to get there.\"Buy Social is an emerging initiative, but it has a promising future in Canada. Its potential is often compared to the success of campaigns to promote environmentally-friendly purchasing. Our aim in launching the campaign in Canada was to provide consumers with a fourth criterion in making their purchasing decisions. While we will always use price and quality as key metrics, we now also employ environmental impact. We hope that social benefit will become that fourth screen and that by encouraging consumers to buy social we will not just avoid the risk of a social crisis, but actually create economic and social opportunities and use market forces to solve long term, complex social problems. We are at the beginning of a major process, but the UK's experience provides a useful model \u2013 as did Peter Holbrook's advice that we: \"Start simply, start small, and the rest will follow.\"In seeking to encourage corporations to buy social, one key challenge is helping them align CSR goals and purchasing processes. As a corporate sponsor of the Buy Social launch, TELUS, a major Canadian telecommunications provider, offered their perspective.Corinne Campney, manager of community investment, explained that this was the first time in her 25-year career with TELUS that she was in the same room with someone from the purchasing department. CSR was traditionally charity and community service focused, while procurement was driven by price, quality and risk avoidance. But now, as they seek to diversity their supply chains, businesses are facing the emerging challenge of how to add social enterprise to the mix . Being able to facilitate that internal dialogue within TELUS, a multi-billion dollar company, was quite a success for the summit. And it underscored the point made by Peter Holbrook that: \"big businesses are getting the message: buying social is mutually beneficial.\"Purchasing CultureLogistical issues such as contract size were also mentioned as barriers, but the obstacles presented by \"traditional purchasing culture\" were the most daunting. Social enterprise consultant Sandra Hamilton told the story of working with a potential University food purchaser. She laughed as she explained how she had to lug a 100-page copy of international and inter-provincial trade agreements to deflect 'red herring' dismissals of why they couldn't consider local, rural food producers in their supply chain. She won over the leadership and the purchasers, leading to local purchasing commencing this fall semester!One social enterprise manager, Brian Postlewaite of Mission Possible, an employment service providing building management services, detailed how hard it can be to simply bid for some contracts. \"Social purchasing development isn't always about introducing a change management process, sometimes it requires changing the management.\"Following round table discussions on barriers and opportunities, the summit agenda moved onto a 'solutions salon' for the final hours. The British Columbia government is emerging as an early solutions collaborator. In his address, social development minister Don McRae noted that he had \"directed ministry staff to examine opportunities to work within government's existing procurement policy to bring forward options for government's consideration.\"Janice Abbott, who is the executive director of Atira Women's Resource, a non-profit charitable organization, as well as the chief executive of their for-profit subsidiary, Atira Property Management, challenged the entire group: \"We all need to look at our internal policies and how we're supporting each other. We need to walk the walk.\"Early adoptersThe Buy Social Canada Summit was an important catalyst for enhanced efforts across the country. Fortunately, we aren't starting from scratch. Twelve years ago, I and others helped launch Canada's first Social Purchasing Portals. The 2010 Winter Olympics broke ground by procuring from social enterprises. Currently in Toronto, the Learning Enrichment Foundation and the Toronto Enterprise Fund are leading a joint effort to introduce social purchasing in a major transportation infrastructure development and at the 2015 Pan-Am Games.Adding the brand and campaign potential of the UK's Buy Social to our existing toolbox will be key to our future success in Canada. We need to move beyond the early adopters list and engage more corporate and institutional purchasers. We need to move from government policy discussion to enacting legislation like the UK Social Value Act. We need our list of Buy Social certified social enterprises to reach into the thousands, with a diversity of products, services and social impact solutions.There is a journey ahead of us of course, but as Peter Frampton of the Learning Enrichment Foundation and Buy Social Canada partner pointed out at the summit opening: \"Buying social is much easier than getting pigs to fly, so let's get on with it.\"David LePage is the co-Founder of Buy Social Canada and Principal at Accelerating Social Impact CCC, Ltd. You can follow the progress of Buy Social Canada @buysocialcanada.More from the British Council partnerzone:\u2022 The importance of social enterprise in Korea's overseas aid work\u2022 Catalysing the global market of impact investment\u2022 Putting social enterprise at the heart of higher educationCopy on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "Buy Social launches in Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-16T11:45:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Union Jack currently occupies space on three of Canada\u2019s provincial flags \u2013 by Friday all may be historical artifacts. The Scottish referendum is currently too close to call, but even if Scotland votes to stay, Britishness \u2013 as an idea and a way of being \u2013 has died in the process of debating it. Should the United Kingdom survive, it will survive out of economic fear. The lie that Britain deserves to survive as anything other than a bad arrangement handed down from history has been called out. And it brings me hope: if Scotland has the guts to reject the fundamental hypocrisy, vulgar classism and demand for self-contempt that Britishness demands, maybe Canada can work up the courage to do the same.Scots built Canada under the banner of Britain. Sir John A MacDonald, the father of Confederation, rejected Chinese citizenship exactly because, as he said, the Chinese immigrant \u201chas no British instincts or British feelings or aspirations, and therefore ought not to have a vote.\u201d Canada is its own country, of course, but British instincts and feelings and aspirations have been steeped into Canada, to the point where in some regards we are more British than the British. My nation\u2019s motto is \u201cpeace, order and good government\u201d \u2013 and each of those three principles is applied with the utmost sincerity. We really believe in those values.The anglo elite, clustered mostly in Toronto now, continues to ape British culture, as they have done for 200 years. When David Cameron went looking for the ideal British banker, he found the man in Toronto \u2013 the upright, clean-cut, sober Mark Carney. Mordechai Richler called them the \u201cWestmount Rhodesians\u201d. They still run most of the political and business institutions in the country, with all the widespread influence that comes with those positions. To live within Britishness is to live away from where the things that matter happen. Its cozy little markers \u2013 tea and biscuits, James Bond, all that playacting from the opening of the London Olympics \u2013 are covers for the ruthlessness of conquest and the dehumanizing hierarchy of class. Hypocrisy has been the defining trait of Britishness, in small and in grand things both. The rajas of India could not understand how the men Britain sent them could be so scrupulous in points of personal honour and then tell outright lies when it came to their treaty obligations. These grand hypocrisies are backed up by a million small hypocrisies, like saying \u201csorry\u201d when you don\u2019t mean \u201csorry\u201d \u2013 Canada\u2019s national verbal tic. The British call this manners.For Canada, the cost of Britishness has been the survival of the colonial mentality, the ineradicable belief that the real world is elsewhere and anyone who wants to make a mark must leave. The 1995 referendum on Quebec Independence was a crisis that nearly ended the country, but the problem with Canada has never been Quebec\u2019s quite natural desire to preserve its identity. The problem is that the rest of the country is always looking elsewhere for its identity. Given the ethnic makeup of the country, not just in Quebec but in the rest of the country as well, Britishness \u2013 the subservient connection to England \u2013 is humiliating and degrading and just plain silly. Why is some old English lady still on my money?That is what the Scots have done \u2013 they have made Britain look silly. They have made it look silly because it is silly. What has become painfully obvious watching the campaign from here is the inability of the pro-British forces to articulate a decent reason for their continued existence. Talk of the \u201cfamily of nations\u201d is the blubbering sentimentality of the defunct bully. Talk of a \u201cnasty divorce\u201d is a final retreat into threat.There is barely a trace of republicanism in Canada, I should point out; mentioning Constitutional Reform here is a social gaffe roughly on the level of farting in soup. Nobody wants to fight battles here the way the Scots are fighting them over there. Quebec separatism is at low ebb. The Parti Quebecois is out of power, after a humiliating attempt to win the provincial election on immigrant-baiting. It has become clear in the past two decades that Quebec\u2019s distinct culture can survive inside Canada. It has also become clear that in terms of the things that really matter \u2013 health care and education and which wars to go to \u2013 generally speaking Quebec and the rest of Canada are really very similar indeed. The reason we\u2019re so similar isn\u2019t that surprising: we built a country together.It is exactly that commonality that the British can no longer muster. The Union Jack may still fly over Scotland at the end of this week, but the ones that fly over Canadian capitals are already anachronistic embarrassments. Maybe if the Union Jack lowers from the masts of the United Kingdom, we can finally lower it from ours.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Canada", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Americas", "British identity and society"], "title": "Why Canada wants Scotland to vote 'yes' | Stephen Marche"},{"date": "2014-09-24T13:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "With help from the Rainforest Alliance, a brave young Costa Rican tree frog is traveling around the world to make new friends and find out what humans are doing to help save her home. This is the second in a series of five weekly dispatches about her experiences.Summer\u2019s in high season, and Mr Frank spends every waking daylight hour in his backyard, an edible oasis bursting with blooms and birds. He\u2019s up early blending in compost with his hand trowel. He leans back and surveys the rows of beans, broccoli and eggplant. Mr F (as the kids refer to their beloved science teacher) grimaces at the yellowing spinach \u2013 his personal challenge \u2013 but beams at his prize heirloom tomatoes. He plucks a juicy beefsteak from the vine and takes a bite.Unlike most home gardeners, Mr F delights researching and experimenting with different heirlooms \u2013 sprouting them from seed. He\u2019s especially proud of his discovery of the \u201cmortgage lifter\u201d. True to its name, these tomatoes\u2019 sales at his local farmers\u2019 market have trimmed his summer energy bill nicely. That\u2019s one reason Mrs F has tolerated the gradual takeover of the garage with gardening supplies. But since their shared Prius no longer fits in the garage, Mrs F has decided it\u2019s time for an honest-to-goodness gardening shed. Soon a truck arrives with a massive box emblazoned \u201cDIY Garden Shed.\u201d But I smell something rotten and it has nothing to do with fallen fruit under the cherry trees. Before the box is off the tailgate, we\u2019re inspecting it for the Forest Stewardship Council seal. \u201cYou know, I thought this product was sustainably harvested, eh?\u201d I say in my best Canadian accent. \u201cBut I can\u2019t find that FSC seal anywhere. How else can we know that the great boreal forests aren\u2019t being clear cut, that our water is being protected \u2026 and that the wildlife remain plentiful?\u201d Mr F goes into science teacher mode. \u201cI don\u2019t see any proof on this box,\u201d he says. \u201cWe\u2019re sending it back.\u201d Mr F goes on about life without trees, caribou and trout. That\u2019s when the driver recognizes his old teacher; he knows it\u2019s pointless to resist. \u201cAll right, Mr F,\u201d he says with a slow nod. \u201cWe\u2019ll get the right kit. And then maybe we\u2019ll be back for some of those tomatoes.\u201dContent on this page is provided by the Rainforest Alliance, supporter of the Vital Signs platform. ", "tags": ["Rainforest Alliance partner zone"], "title": "Frog diaries: join the Rainforest Alliance frog in Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-10T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The grisly and mysterious tale of two British ships that disappeared in the Arctic in 1845 has baffled generations and sparked one of history's longest rescue searches. But now, more than 160 years later, Canadian divers have finally found the remains of one of the doomed Navy vessels.Legend has it that sailors on board the HMS Erebus and HMS Terror, who were chosen by the explorer Sir John Franklin, resorted to cannibalism after the ships became ice-bound in the Victoria Strait in the Arctic territory of Nunavut.Search parties hunted for the crew until 1859, but no sign of either ship was discovered until now. However, tantalising clues have emerged over the years, including the bodies of three crewmen, discovered in the 1980s.The Franklin expedition's mission to the fabled Northwest Passage had frustrated explorers for centuries and the sea crossing was only successfully made 58 years later, far further north. The original search expeditions in the 19th century helped open up parts of the Canadian Arctic for discovery.Canadian divers and archaeologists rekindled efforts to find the ships in 2008 as the government looked to assert its sovereignty over the Northwest Passage.Announcing the find, Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper said: \"This is truly a historic moment for Canada. This has been a great Canadian story and mystery and the subject of scientists, historians, writers and singers, so I think we really have an important day in mapping the history of our country.\"\"Franklin's ships are an important part of Canadian history given that his expeditions, which took place nearly 200 years ago, laid the foundations of Canada's Arctic sovereignty,\" he said.An image of the discovery shows the wooden vessel has remained largely intact, though the main mast has been sheared off. The ship was resting upright on the sea bed only 11 meters below the surface. Searchers used remotely operated underwater technology to find the ship on Sunday, although it remains unclear which of the two vessels it is. The discovery comes shortly after divers found an iron fitting from one of the boats.The myths surrounding the Franklin expedition have helped make the vessels among the most sought-after prizes in marine archaeology.Experts believe the crews abandoned the two ships in a doomed bid to find help after both of their ships became locked in ice near King William Island.The remains of the crew were hard to find because they wandered for hundreds of miles over the ice and, at the time, the Inuit gave conflicted accounts of the directions they took. However, over the years traces of 70 crew members have been found.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Canada", "UK news"], "title": "British ship from 1845 Franklin expedition found by Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-02T16:43:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Pop star Justin Bieber was arrested Friday after crashing an ATV into a minivan and getting into a fight.Bieber, 20, was arrested at about 3pm Friday by Canadian provincial police and charged with assault and dangerous driving in rural southwestern Ontario, in the town of Perth East. Police said that Bieber\u2019s vehicle collided with a minivan and that Bieber then got into a fight with one of its occupants. Authorities didn\u2019t say whether anyone else was arrested in the incident, and declined to provide a mug shot.He was released without bail, and is scheduled to appear in Stratford, Ontario court on 29 September. Bieber is already on probation in California. It\u2019s unclear whether the arrest could constitute a violation. ", "tags": ["Justin Bieber", "Canada", "Americas", "Culture", "US news"], "title": "Justin Bieber arrested for assault and dangerous driving in Canada"},{"date": "2014-08-11T08:00:31Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Enigmatic musician Lewis has been found. Light in the Attic Records claim to have tracked down the mysterious musician whose self-released 1983 debut became a recent underground hit. Alive and well, Randall Wulff is apparently still making music and doesn\u2019t want any money from the reissue campaign that turned his prescient early songs into contemporary cult favourites.\u201cWe found [Lewis] looking calm, cool and collected, sitting outside a little neighbourhood coffee shop drinking a large hot coffee,\u201d Light In The Attic said in a statement. They had apparently come looking for him in an unnamed Canadian city, following a tip from one of Lewis\u2019s old friends. \u201cHe had no idea about the recent interest in his old records and didn\u2019t seem to care in the slightest,\u201d they revealed. \u201cWe had a check for him but he wasn\u2019t interested ... [He] said, \u2018I wish you guys all the best. [But] I\u2019m not looking back.\u201dThis past spring, Light In The Attic reissued L\u2019Amour, a 30-year-old collection of synth-laden songs that outsider music fans had been trading online since 2012. Just two months later, crate-diggers discovered a second Lewis album, also privately-pressed: Romantic Times, from 1985, which the label released this summer. And yet despite the popularity of both LPs, nobody had been able to find Lewis. Light In The Attic uncovered only his real name, Randall Wulff, some of the places he had spent time (Los Angeles, Alberta, Hawaii), and the fact that he never paid photographer Ed Colver for L\u2019Amour\u2019s cover shot.Wulff now apparently goes by \u201cRandy\u201d. \u201cWe brought him CDs and LPs of L\u2019Amour,\u201d Light In The Attic wrote. \u201cHe took a look, impressed (\u2018nice\u2019), and smiled, recalling a number of positive stories from back in the day. Then handed back the CD, saying it was for us and kindly declined keeping it. Randy simply wanted to look forward with both his life and music and had no interest in any celebrity or financial gain having to do with the albums. He told us over and over again, \u2018That was a long time ago.\u2019\u201dIn light of Wulff\u2019s ambivalence, Light in the Attic have announced that they will not repress L\u2019Amour or Romantic Times once their current stock runs out. \u201cIt doesn\u2019t feel right collecting money from [Lewis\u2019s] art and him not sharing in it regardless of how incredibly positive he was about the entire thing,\u201d they said. His royalties will remain in escrow should he ever choose to claim them.Wulff is now working on new music - songs that took him \u201c40, 50 years to write,\u201d he said. And fans have uncovered a YouTube video showing a Lewis-like \u201cRandy Duke\u201d working at a Vancouver studio in 2012. But there\u2019s no word on whether these songs will ever be released. \u201cI\u2019m not looking into coin,\u201d Wulff told Light In The Attic. \u201cI\u2019m not looking into anything. I\u2019m just strumming my guitar.\u201d", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Indie"], "title": "Lewis located: Enigmatic singer found sipping coffee in Canada"},{"date": "2014-08-19T12:59:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I\u2019m up here in the land of the midnight sun at 68.4 degrees latitude, with summer temperatures approaching 30C. However, all good things must come to an end, and the sun will dip down to the horizon at about 2am. Attentive folks will say it should be midnight, no? Reason is that we need to follow Alberta\u2019s mountain time for convenience, rather than the true time given by our longitude. If you follow the longitude down from Inuvik, you end up in the Pacific Ocean far west of Vancouver.This is my second time living in Inuvik in the Mackenzie Delta region of the Northwest Territories. This time I moved from Ragged Ass Road in Yellowknife. The first trip to Inuvik was exactly 18 years ago, and that was quite an adventure. The most eventful part of the 3,200km journey from Edmonton was travelling the Dempster Highway from Dawson City, Yukon up to Inuvik, a distance of 740km on tyre-punishing crushed black shale. The trip involved a large semi-trailer truck trying to force us off the road (the old Saab ran well, even with two wheels over the shoulder), and a lightning strike right beside the car in a foggy drive over a mountain crest right up in the clouds in the Richardson mountain range. That was a window-rattling explosion like a mine blast under a tank in a second world war movie.So moving back to Inuvik is like coming home. They say when you venture to a remote community in the Arctic you will either love it or hate it. When my family of four moved here in 1996 we were ambivalent. However, go where the work is. Soon every trip south to the so-called civilised world seemed crowded and impersonal. So it is a treat to sit here again in the Cafe Gallery, sip my mocha, gnaw on a cranberry muffin and reminisce.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada"], "title": "Letter from Canada: true north"},{"date": "2014-07-24T12:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Buy Social brand and campaign were initially developed by Social Enterprise UK (SEUK) to increase awareness and market opportunities for their social enterprise members. Launched in 2012, Buy Social promotes trade between social enterprises and encourages private businesses and public sector bodies to procure goods and services from social enterprises. It also seeks to influence consumers' spending decisions. As SEUK chief executive Peter Holbrook explains: \"When you spend with a social enterprise, your money goes towards supporting a social enterprise's mission, helping to tackle some of society's most pressing problems.\"On June 16-17, Holbrook was in Vancouver, British Columbia to attend the launch of Buy Social Canada and join a social enterprise exchange between the UK and Canada, sponsored by the British Council. The event brought together early adopters in the social purchasing movement in Canada as well as representatives from municipal, provincial and federal governments, large and small businesses, and social enterprises.In his opening remarks, Don McRae, the minister of social development and Social Innovation in British Columbia, clearly stated the summit's shared goal: \"We all want to see a better world and buying social is a way to get there.\"Buy Social is an emerging initiative, but it has a promising future in Canada. Its potential is often compared to the success of campaigns to promote environmentally-friendly purchasing. Our aim in launching the campaign in Canada was to provide consumers with a fourth criterion in making their purchasing decisions. While we will always use price and quality as key metrics, we now also employ environmental impact. We hope that social benefit will become that fourth screen and that by encouraging consumers to buy social we will not just avoid the risk of a social crisis, but actually create economic and social opportunities and use market forces to solve long term, complex social problems. We are at the beginning of a major process, but the UK's experience provides a useful model \u2013 as did Peter Holbrook's advice that we: \"Start simply, start small, and the rest will follow.\"In seeking to encourage corporations to buy social, one key challenge is helping them align CSR goals and purchasing processes. As a corporate sponsor of the Buy Social launch, TELUS, a major Canadian telecommunications provider, offered their perspective.Corinne Campney, manager of community investment, explained that this was the first time in her 25-year career with TELUS that she was in the same room with someone from the purchasing department. CSR was traditionally charity and community service focused, while procurement was driven by price, quality and risk avoidance. But now, as they seek to diversity their supply chains, businesses are facing the emerging challenge of how to add social enterprise to the mix . Being able to facilitate that internal dialogue within TELUS, a multi-billion dollar company, was quite a success for the summit. And it underscored the point made by Peter Holbrook that: \"big businesses are getting the message: buying social is mutually beneficial.\"Purchasing CultureLogistical issues such as contract size were also mentioned as barriers, but the obstacles presented by \"traditional purchasing culture\" were the most daunting. Social enterprise consultant Sandra Hamilton told the story of working with a potential University food purchaser. She laughed as she explained how she had to lug a 100-page copy of international and inter-provincial trade agreements to deflect 'red herring' dismissals of why they couldn't consider local, rural food producers in their supply chain. She won over the leadership and the purchasers, leading to local purchasing commencing this fall semester!One social enterprise manager, Brian Postlewaite of Mission Possible, an employment service providing building management services, detailed how hard it can be to simply bid for some contracts. \"Social purchasing development isn't always about introducing a change management process, sometimes it requires changing the management.\"Following round table discussions on barriers and opportunities, the summit agenda moved onto a 'solutions salon' for the final hours. The British Columbia government is emerging as an early solutions collaborator. In his address, social development minister Don McRae noted that he had \"directed ministry staff to examine opportunities to work within government's existing procurement policy to bring forward options for government's consideration.\"Janice Abbott, who is the executive director of Atira Women's Resource, a non-profit charitable organization, as well as the chief executive of their for-profit subsidiary, Atira Property Management, challenged the entire group: \"We all need to look at our internal policies and how we're supporting each other. We need to walk the walk.\"Early adoptersThe Buy Social Canada Summit was an important catalyst for enhanced efforts across the country. Fortunately, we aren't starting from scratch. Twelve years ago, I and others helped launch Canada's first Social Purchasing Portals. The 2010 Winter Olympics broke ground by procuring from social enterprises. Currently in Toronto, the Learning Enrichment Foundation and the Toronto Enterprise Fund are leading a joint effort to introduce social purchasing in a major transportation infrastructure development and at the 2015 Pan-Am Games.Adding the brand and campaign potential of the UK's Buy Social to our existing toolbox will be key to our future success in Canada. We need to move beyond the early adopters list and engage more corporate and institutional purchasers. We need to move from government policy discussion to enacting legislation like the UK Social Value Act. We need our list of Buy Social certified social enterprises to reach into the thousands, with a diversity of products, services and social impact solutions.There is a journey ahead of us of course, but as Peter Frampton of the Learning Enrichment Foundation and Buy Social Canada partner pointed out at the summit opening: \"Buying social is much easier than getting pigs to fly, so let's get on with it.\"David LePage is the co-Founder of Buy Social Canada and Principal at Accelerating Social Impact CCC, Ltd. You can follow the progress of Buy Social Canada @buysocialcanada.More from the British Council partnerzone:\u2022 The importance of social enterprise in Korea's overseas aid work\u2022 Catalysing the global market of impact investment\u2022 Putting social enterprise at the heart of higher educationCopy on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "Buy Social launches in Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-16T11:45:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Union Jack currently occupies space on three of Canada\u2019s provincial flags \u2013 by Friday all may be historical artifacts. The Scottish referendum is currently too close to call, but even if Scotland votes to stay, Britishness \u2013 as an idea and a way of being \u2013 has died in the process of debating it. Should the United Kingdom survive, it will survive out of economic fear. The lie that Britain deserves to survive as anything other than a bad arrangement handed down from history has been called out. And it brings me hope: if Scotland has the guts to reject the fundamental hypocrisy, vulgar classism and demand for self-contempt that Britishness demands, maybe Canada can work up the courage to do the same.Scots built Canada under the banner of Britain. Sir John A MacDonald, the father of Confederation, rejected Chinese citizenship exactly because, as he said, the Chinese immigrant \u201chas no British instincts or British feelings or aspirations, and therefore ought not to have a vote.\u201d Canada is its own country, of course, but British instincts and feelings and aspirations have been steeped into Canada, to the point where in some regards we are more British than the British. My nation\u2019s motto is \u201cpeace, order and good government\u201d \u2013 and each of those three principles is applied with the utmost sincerity. We really believe in those values.The anglo elite, clustered mostly in Toronto now, continues to ape British culture, as they have done for 200 years. When David Cameron went looking for the ideal British banker, he found the man in Toronto \u2013 the upright, clean-cut, sober Mark Carney. Mordechai Richler called them the \u201cWestmount Rhodesians\u201d. They still run most of the political and business institutions in the country, with all the widespread influence that comes with those positions. To live within Britishness is to live away from where the things that matter happen. Its cozy little markers \u2013 tea and biscuits, James Bond, all that playacting from the opening of the London Olympics \u2013 are covers for the ruthlessness of conquest and the dehumanizing hierarchy of class. Hypocrisy has been the defining trait of Britishness, in small and in grand things both. The rajas of India could not understand how the men Britain sent them could be so scrupulous in points of personal honour and then tell outright lies when it came to their treaty obligations. These grand hypocrisies are backed up by a million small hypocrisies, like saying \u201csorry\u201d when you don\u2019t mean \u201csorry\u201d \u2013 Canada\u2019s national verbal tic. The British call this manners.For Canada, the cost of Britishness has been the survival of the colonial mentality, the ineradicable belief that the real world is elsewhere and anyone who wants to make a mark must leave. The 1995 referendum on Quebec Independence was a crisis that nearly ended the country, but the problem with Canada has never been Quebec\u2019s quite natural desire to preserve its identity. The problem is that the rest of the country is always looking elsewhere for its identity. Given the ethnic makeup of the country, not just in Quebec but in the rest of the country as well, Britishness \u2013 the subservient connection to England \u2013 is humiliating and degrading and just plain silly. Why is some old English lady still on my money?That is what the Scots have done \u2013 they have made Britain look silly. They have made it look silly because it is silly. What has become painfully obvious watching the campaign from here is the inability of the pro-British forces to articulate a decent reason for their continued existence. Talk of the \u201cfamily of nations\u201d is the blubbering sentimentality of the defunct bully. Talk of a \u201cnasty divorce\u201d is a final retreat into threat.There is barely a trace of republicanism in Canada, I should point out; mentioning Constitutional Reform here is a social gaffe roughly on the level of farting in soup. Nobody wants to fight battles here the way the Scots are fighting them over there. Quebec separatism is at low ebb. The Parti Quebecois is out of power, after a humiliating attempt to win the provincial election on immigrant-baiting. It has become clear in the past two decades that Quebec\u2019s distinct culture can survive inside Canada. It has also become clear that in terms of the things that really matter \u2013 health care and education and which wars to go to \u2013 generally speaking Quebec and the rest of Canada are really very similar indeed. The reason we\u2019re so similar isn\u2019t that surprising: we built a country together.It is exactly that commonality that the British can no longer muster. The Union Jack may still fly over Scotland at the end of this week, but the ones that fly over Canadian capitals are already anachronistic embarrassments. Maybe if the Union Jack lowers from the masts of the United Kingdom, we can finally lower it from ours.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Canada", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Americas", "British identity and society"], "title": "Why Canada wants Scotland to vote 'yes' | Stephen Marche"},{"date": "2014-09-24T13:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "With help from the Rainforest Alliance, a brave young Costa Rican tree frog is traveling around the world to make new friends and find out what humans are doing to help save her home. This is the second in a series of five weekly dispatches about her experiences.Summer\u2019s in high season, and Mr Frank spends every waking daylight hour in his backyard, an edible oasis bursting with blooms and birds. He\u2019s up early blending in compost with his hand trowel. He leans back and surveys the rows of beans, broccoli and eggplant. Mr F (as the kids refer to their beloved science teacher) grimaces at the yellowing spinach \u2013 his personal challenge \u2013 but beams at his prize heirloom tomatoes. He plucks a juicy beefsteak from the vine and takes a bite.Unlike most home gardeners, Mr F delights researching and experimenting with different heirlooms \u2013 sprouting them from seed. He\u2019s especially proud of his discovery of the \u201cmortgage lifter\u201d. True to its name, these tomatoes\u2019 sales at his local farmers\u2019 market have trimmed his summer energy bill nicely. That\u2019s one reason Mrs F has tolerated the gradual takeover of the garage with gardening supplies. But since their shared Prius no longer fits in the garage, Mrs F has decided it\u2019s time for an honest-to-goodness gardening shed. Soon a truck arrives with a massive box emblazoned \u201cDIY Garden Shed.\u201d But I smell something rotten and it has nothing to do with fallen fruit under the cherry trees. Before the box is off the tailgate, we\u2019re inspecting it for the Forest Stewardship Council seal. \u201cYou know, I thought this product was sustainably harvested, eh?\u201d I say in my best Canadian accent. \u201cBut I can\u2019t find that FSC seal anywhere. How else can we know that the great boreal forests aren\u2019t being clear cut, that our water is being protected \u2026 and that the wildlife remain plentiful?\u201d Mr F goes into science teacher mode. \u201cI don\u2019t see any proof on this box,\u201d he says. \u201cWe\u2019re sending it back.\u201d Mr F goes on about life without trees, caribou and trout. That\u2019s when the driver recognizes his old teacher; he knows it\u2019s pointless to resist. \u201cAll right, Mr F,\u201d he says with a slow nod. \u201cWe\u2019ll get the right kit. And then maybe we\u2019ll be back for some of those tomatoes.\u201dContent on this page is provided by the Rainforest Alliance, supporter of the Vital Signs platform. ", "tags": ["Rainforest Alliance partner zone"], "title": "Frog diaries: join the Rainforest Alliance frog in Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-10T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The grisly and mysterious tale of two British ships that disappeared in the Arctic in 1845 has baffled generations and sparked one of history's longest rescue searches. But now, more than 160 years later, Canadian divers have finally found the remains of one of the doomed Navy vessels.Legend has it that sailors on board the HMS Erebus and HMS Terror, who were chosen by the explorer Sir John Franklin, resorted to cannibalism after the ships became ice-bound in the Victoria Strait in the Arctic territory of Nunavut.Search parties hunted for the crew until 1859, but no sign of either ship was discovered until now. However, tantalising clues have emerged over the years, including the bodies of three crewmen, discovered in the 1980s.The Franklin expedition's mission to the fabled Northwest Passage had frustrated explorers for centuries and the sea crossing was only successfully made 58 years later, far further north. The original search expeditions in the 19th century helped open up parts of the Canadian Arctic for discovery.Canadian divers and archaeologists rekindled efforts to find the ships in 2008 as the government looked to assert its sovereignty over the Northwest Passage.Announcing the find, Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper said: \"This is truly a historic moment for Canada. This has been a great Canadian story and mystery and the subject of scientists, historians, writers and singers, so I think we really have an important day in mapping the history of our country.\"\"Franklin's ships are an important part of Canadian history given that his expeditions, which took place nearly 200 years ago, laid the foundations of Canada's Arctic sovereignty,\" he said.An image of the discovery shows the wooden vessel has remained largely intact, though the main mast has been sheared off. The ship was resting upright on the sea bed only 11 meters below the surface. Searchers used remotely operated underwater technology to find the ship on Sunday, although it remains unclear which of the two vessels it is. The discovery comes shortly after divers found an iron fitting from one of the boats.The myths surrounding the Franklin expedition have helped make the vessels among the most sought-after prizes in marine archaeology.Experts believe the crews abandoned the two ships in a doomed bid to find help after both of their ships became locked in ice near King William Island.The remains of the crew were hard to find because they wandered for hundreds of miles over the ice and, at the time, the Inuit gave conflicted accounts of the directions they took. However, over the years traces of 70 crew members have been found.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Canada", "UK news"], "title": "British ship from 1845 Franklin expedition found by Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-02T16:43:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Pop star Justin Bieber was arrested Friday after crashing an ATV into a minivan and getting into a fight.Bieber, 20, was arrested at about 3pm Friday by Canadian provincial police and charged with assault and dangerous driving in rural southwestern Ontario, in the town of Perth East. Police said that Bieber\u2019s vehicle collided with a minivan and that Bieber then got into a fight with one of its occupants. Authorities didn\u2019t say whether anyone else was arrested in the incident, and declined to provide a mug shot.He was released without bail, and is scheduled to appear in Stratford, Ontario court on 29 September. Bieber is already on probation in California. It\u2019s unclear whether the arrest could constitute a violation. ", "tags": ["Justin Bieber", "Canada", "Americas", "Culture", "US news"], "title": "Justin Bieber arrested for assault and dangerous driving in Canada"},{"date": "2014-08-11T08:00:31Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Enigmatic musician Lewis has been found. Light in the Attic Records claim to have tracked down the mysterious musician whose self-released 1983 debut became a recent underground hit. Alive and well, Randall Wulff is apparently still making music and doesn\u2019t want any money from the reissue campaign that turned his prescient early songs into contemporary cult favourites.\u201cWe found [Lewis] looking calm, cool and collected, sitting outside a little neighbourhood coffee shop drinking a large hot coffee,\u201d Light In The Attic said in a statement. They had apparently come looking for him in an unnamed Canadian city, following a tip from one of Lewis\u2019s old friends. \u201cHe had no idea about the recent interest in his old records and didn\u2019t seem to care in the slightest,\u201d they revealed. \u201cWe had a check for him but he wasn\u2019t interested ... [He] said, \u2018I wish you guys all the best. [But] I\u2019m not looking back.\u201dThis past spring, Light In The Attic reissued L\u2019Amour, a 30-year-old collection of synth-laden songs that outsider music fans had been trading online since 2012. Just two months later, crate-diggers discovered a second Lewis album, also privately-pressed: Romantic Times, from 1985, which the label released this summer. And yet despite the popularity of both LPs, nobody had been able to find Lewis. Light In The Attic uncovered only his real name, Randall Wulff, some of the places he had spent time (Los Angeles, Alberta, Hawaii), and the fact that he never paid photographer Ed Colver for L\u2019Amour\u2019s cover shot.Wulff now apparently goes by \u201cRandy\u201d. \u201cWe brought him CDs and LPs of L\u2019Amour,\u201d Light In The Attic wrote. \u201cHe took a look, impressed (\u2018nice\u2019), and smiled, recalling a number of positive stories from back in the day. Then handed back the CD, saying it was for us and kindly declined keeping it. Randy simply wanted to look forward with both his life and music and had no interest in any celebrity or financial gain having to do with the albums. He told us over and over again, \u2018That was a long time ago.\u2019\u201dIn light of Wulff\u2019s ambivalence, Light in the Attic have announced that they will not repress L\u2019Amour or Romantic Times once their current stock runs out. \u201cIt doesn\u2019t feel right collecting money from [Lewis\u2019s] art and him not sharing in it regardless of how incredibly positive he was about the entire thing,\u201d they said. His royalties will remain in escrow should he ever choose to claim them.Wulff is now working on new music - songs that took him \u201c40, 50 years to write,\u201d he said. And fans have uncovered a YouTube video showing a Lewis-like \u201cRandy Duke\u201d working at a Vancouver studio in 2012. But there\u2019s no word on whether these songs will ever be released. \u201cI\u2019m not looking into coin,\u201d Wulff told Light In The Attic. \u201cI\u2019m not looking into anything. I\u2019m just strumming my guitar.\u201d", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Indie"], "title": "Lewis located: Enigmatic singer found sipping coffee in Canada"},{"date": "2014-07-01T11:45:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Cheerful good manners, unwavering order and maple leaves as far as the eye can see. In the Great White North this can only add up to one of 365 things: Canada Day, or every other day of the year. To be sure, the country's decency and relentless good fortune are worth celebrating on this, its 147th birthday.Canada recently ranked fifth in the OECD's Better Life Index, and its cities routinely top lists from the most resilient to the most livable. But none of this justifies the year-round ubiquity of its national symbol. Admit it, Canada: you've got a maple leaf problem.As with the US's obesity crisis or Britain's functional alcoholism, Canada's maple leaf addiction is almost impossible to see from the inside. Only by moving abroad can one get a handle on the true scale of the thing.My epiphany came during a recent trip to Toronto, the city where I grew up. With mounting disbelief, then embarrassment, then resignation, I stopped counting maple leaves when I reached 40 \u2013 and that was before I'd cleared customs. There were maple leaves blushing on \"welcome home\" posters; maple leaf patches sewn on to rucksacks; maple leaves on replica shirts of Toronto's hockey team, the Maple Leafs; and special edition Toronto Blue Jays caps that replaced the team's logo, stubbornly resembling something other than a maple leaf, with a maple leaf; while outside, a be-leafed Air Canada plane bearing be-leafed airborne Canadians drifted leaf-like on to the runway.My partner, a Norwegian, was incredulous. In pride-averse Norway, she explained, the flag can be tastefully flown on only a few occasions each year \u2013 birthdays and national day \u2013 and edible Nordic crosses are unheard of. Granted, Canada isn't in Europe, where even the most benign expressions of nationalism should be treated as potentially apocalyptic. But maybe, just maybe, her compatriots are on to something.The rest of our trip brought more of the same: maple leaves winking in corporate logos, doubling as apostrophes, or floating gratuitously in the margins; maple leaf pavestones on the city's redeveloped waterfront; maple leaves tattooed on men's arms; and, of course, maple leaves hanging sheepishly in the background of Rob Ford apology news conferences. The country appeared to have finally done it: more Canadian things have leaves on them than don't.How did we get here? One easy answer is the leaf's versatility. The union jack renders brilliantly on a novelty hat \u2013 that's just a fact \u2013 but you wouldn't go squeezing it on to a pair of mittens. Conversely, stretch it any bigger than Geri Halliwell and it starts to overwhelm. Not so the leaf, which works at any size \u2013 on beer bottle caps to jumbo jet tail fins to, I assume, the leaf-shaped jacuzzi in Chad Kroeger and Avril Lavigne's marital en suite.A second, related answer is corporate red-washing. It's a known fact among US marketing departments that, all things being equal, the discerning Canadian consumer chooses the leaf-waving establishment every time. McDonald's knows this. So does Taco Bell. So do Sears, Target, General Motors and loads more with maple leaves added to their logos. But how to explain the leaves Canadians choose for ourselves? The biscuits, the sports paraphernalia, the tattoos? Cunning though they are, American fast food franchises can at worst be accused of simply exploiting, not creating, the demand. Here, I'm afraid, it's impossible to avoid the existential question that most Canadians would prefer not to acknowledge: if a tree falls in the forest and no one is around to carve a maple leaf in to it, is it basically just American?They may be unpleasant, but this question and others like it are the natural, even inevitable, consequence of a national identity forged on the edge of a global superpower. Over the course of its history Canada has traded one bit part for another, going from frozen colonial outpost to occasionally evident northern neighbour; source of beavers to source of Bieber. No wonder we assert our existence on every scrap of fabric, every sheet of paper, and every commemorative mug, coin and plaque in sight. We put maple leaves on everything, therefore we are.So by all means, Canada, go nuts with the leaves \u2013 today. As of tomorrow morning, admitting you have a problem is the first step to overcoming it.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Admit it, Canada, you're obsessed with the maple leaf | Nick Aveling"},{"date": "2014-08-19T12:59:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I\u2019m up here in the land of the midnight sun at 68.4 degrees latitude, with summer temperatures approaching 30C. However, all good things must come to an end, and the sun will dip down to the horizon at about 2am. Attentive folks will say it should be midnight, no? Reason is that we need to follow Alberta\u2019s mountain time for convenience, rather than the true time given by our longitude. If you follow the longitude down from Inuvik, you end up in the Pacific Ocean far west of Vancouver.This is my second time living in Inuvik in the Mackenzie Delta region of the Northwest Territories. This time I moved from Ragged Ass Road in Yellowknife. The first trip to Inuvik was exactly 18 years ago, and that was quite an adventure. The most eventful part of the 3,200km journey from Edmonton was travelling the Dempster Highway from Dawson City, Yukon up to Inuvik, a distance of 740km on tyre-punishing crushed black shale. The trip involved a large semi-trailer truck trying to force us off the road (the old Saab ran well, even with two wheels over the shoulder), and a lightning strike right beside the car in a foggy drive over a mountain crest right up in the clouds in the Richardson mountain range. That was a window-rattling explosion like a mine blast under a tank in a second world war movie.So moving back to Inuvik is like coming home. They say when you venture to a remote community in the Arctic you will either love it or hate it. When my family of four moved here in 1996 we were ambivalent. However, go where the work is. Soon every trip south to the so-called civilised world seemed crowded and impersonal. So it is a treat to sit here again in the Cafe Gallery, sip my mocha, gnaw on a cranberry muffin and reminisce.Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada"], "title": "Letter from Canada: true north"},{"date": "2014-07-24T12:59:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Buy Social brand and campaign were initially developed by Social Enterprise UK (SEUK) to increase awareness and market opportunities for their social enterprise members. Launched in 2012, Buy Social promotes trade between social enterprises and encourages private businesses and public sector bodies to procure goods and services from social enterprises. It also seeks to influence consumers' spending decisions. As SEUK chief executive Peter Holbrook explains: \"When you spend with a social enterprise, your money goes towards supporting a social enterprise's mission, helping to tackle some of society's most pressing problems.\"On June 16-17, Holbrook was in Vancouver, British Columbia to attend the launch of Buy Social Canada and join a social enterprise exchange between the UK and Canada, sponsored by the British Council. The event brought together early adopters in the social purchasing movement in Canada as well as representatives from municipal, provincial and federal governments, large and small businesses, and social enterprises.In his opening remarks, Don McRae, the minister of social development and Social Innovation in British Columbia, clearly stated the summit's shared goal: \"We all want to see a better world and buying social is a way to get there.\"Buy Social is an emerging initiative, but it has a promising future in Canada. Its potential is often compared to the success of campaigns to promote environmentally-friendly purchasing. Our aim in launching the campaign in Canada was to provide consumers with a fourth criterion in making their purchasing decisions. While we will always use price and quality as key metrics, we now also employ environmental impact. We hope that social benefit will become that fourth screen and that by encouraging consumers to buy social we will not just avoid the risk of a social crisis, but actually create economic and social opportunities and use market forces to solve long term, complex social problems. We are at the beginning of a major process, but the UK's experience provides a useful model \u2013 as did Peter Holbrook's advice that we: \"Start simply, start small, and the rest will follow.\"In seeking to encourage corporations to buy social, one key challenge is helping them align CSR goals and purchasing processes. As a corporate sponsor of the Buy Social launch, TELUS, a major Canadian telecommunications provider, offered their perspective.Corinne Campney, manager of community investment, explained that this was the first time in her 25-year career with TELUS that she was in the same room with someone from the purchasing department. CSR was traditionally charity and community service focused, while procurement was driven by price, quality and risk avoidance. But now, as they seek to diversity their supply chains, businesses are facing the emerging challenge of how to add social enterprise to the mix . Being able to facilitate that internal dialogue within TELUS, a multi-billion dollar company, was quite a success for the summit. And it underscored the point made by Peter Holbrook that: \"big businesses are getting the message: buying social is mutually beneficial.\"Purchasing CultureLogistical issues such as contract size were also mentioned as barriers, but the obstacles presented by \"traditional purchasing culture\" were the most daunting. Social enterprise consultant Sandra Hamilton told the story of working with a potential University food purchaser. She laughed as she explained how she had to lug a 100-page copy of international and inter-provincial trade agreements to deflect 'red herring' dismissals of why they couldn't consider local, rural food producers in their supply chain. She won over the leadership and the purchasers, leading to local purchasing commencing this fall semester!One social enterprise manager, Brian Postlewaite of Mission Possible, an employment service providing building management services, detailed how hard it can be to simply bid for some contracts. \"Social purchasing development isn't always about introducing a change management process, sometimes it requires changing the management.\"Following round table discussions on barriers and opportunities, the summit agenda moved onto a 'solutions salon' for the final hours. The British Columbia government is emerging as an early solutions collaborator. In his address, social development minister Don McRae noted that he had \"directed ministry staff to examine opportunities to work within government's existing procurement policy to bring forward options for government's consideration.\"Janice Abbott, who is the executive director of Atira Women's Resource, a non-profit charitable organization, as well as the chief executive of their for-profit subsidiary, Atira Property Management, challenged the entire group: \"We all need to look at our internal policies and how we're supporting each other. We need to walk the walk.\"Early adoptersThe Buy Social Canada Summit was an important catalyst for enhanced efforts across the country. Fortunately, we aren't starting from scratch. Twelve years ago, I and others helped launch Canada's first Social Purchasing Portals. The 2010 Winter Olympics broke ground by procuring from social enterprises. Currently in Toronto, the Learning Enrichment Foundation and the Toronto Enterprise Fund are leading a joint effort to introduce social purchasing in a major transportation infrastructure development and at the 2015 Pan-Am Games.Adding the brand and campaign potential of the UK's Buy Social to our existing toolbox will be key to our future success in Canada. We need to move beyond the early adopters list and engage more corporate and institutional purchasers. We need to move from government policy discussion to enacting legislation like the UK Social Value Act. We need our list of Buy Social certified social enterprises to reach into the thousands, with a diversity of products, services and social impact solutions.There is a journey ahead of us of course, but as Peter Frampton of the Learning Enrichment Foundation and Buy Social Canada partner pointed out at the summit opening: \"Buying social is much easier than getting pigs to fly, so let's get on with it.\"David LePage is the co-Founder of Buy Social Canada and Principal at Accelerating Social Impact CCC, Ltd. You can follow the progress of Buy Social Canada @buysocialcanada.More from the British Council partnerzone:\u2022 The importance of social enterprise in Korea's overseas aid work\u2022 Catalysing the global market of impact investment\u2022 Putting social enterprise at the heart of higher educationCopy on this page is paid for and provided by the British Council sponsor of the International hub", "tags": ["Social Enterprise British Council Partner zone"], "title": "Buy Social launches in Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-16T11:45:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Union Jack currently occupies space on three of Canada\u2019s provincial flags \u2013 by Friday all may be historical artifacts. The Scottish referendum is currently too close to call, but even if Scotland votes to stay, Britishness \u2013 as an idea and a way of being \u2013 has died in the process of debating it. Should the United Kingdom survive, it will survive out of economic fear. The lie that Britain deserves to survive as anything other than a bad arrangement handed down from history has been called out. And it brings me hope: if Scotland has the guts to reject the fundamental hypocrisy, vulgar classism and demand for self-contempt that Britishness demands, maybe Canada can work up the courage to do the same.Scots built Canada under the banner of Britain. Sir John A MacDonald, the father of Confederation, rejected Chinese citizenship exactly because, as he said, the Chinese immigrant \u201chas no British instincts or British feelings or aspirations, and therefore ought not to have a vote.\u201d Canada is its own country, of course, but British instincts and feelings and aspirations have been steeped into Canada, to the point where in some regards we are more British than the British. My nation\u2019s motto is \u201cpeace, order and good government\u201d \u2013 and each of those three principles is applied with the utmost sincerity. We really believe in those values.The anglo elite, clustered mostly in Toronto now, continues to ape British culture, as they have done for 200 years. When David Cameron went looking for the ideal British banker, he found the man in Toronto \u2013 the upright, clean-cut, sober Mark Carney. Mordechai Richler called them the \u201cWestmount Rhodesians\u201d. They still run most of the political and business institutions in the country, with all the widespread influence that comes with those positions. To live within Britishness is to live away from where the things that matter happen. Its cozy little markers \u2013 tea and biscuits, James Bond, all that playacting from the opening of the London Olympics \u2013 are covers for the ruthlessness of conquest and the dehumanizing hierarchy of class. Hypocrisy has been the defining trait of Britishness, in small and in grand things both. The rajas of India could not understand how the men Britain sent them could be so scrupulous in points of personal honour and then tell outright lies when it came to their treaty obligations. These grand hypocrisies are backed up by a million small hypocrisies, like saying \u201csorry\u201d when you don\u2019t mean \u201csorry\u201d \u2013 Canada\u2019s national verbal tic. The British call this manners.For Canada, the cost of Britishness has been the survival of the colonial mentality, the ineradicable belief that the real world is elsewhere and anyone who wants to make a mark must leave. The 1995 referendum on Quebec Independence was a crisis that nearly ended the country, but the problem with Canada has never been Quebec\u2019s quite natural desire to preserve its identity. The problem is that the rest of the country is always looking elsewhere for its identity. Given the ethnic makeup of the country, not just in Quebec but in the rest of the country as well, Britishness \u2013 the subservient connection to England \u2013 is humiliating and degrading and just plain silly. Why is some old English lady still on my money?That is what the Scots have done \u2013 they have made Britain look silly. They have made it look silly because it is silly. What has become painfully obvious watching the campaign from here is the inability of the pro-British forces to articulate a decent reason for their continued existence. Talk of the \u201cfamily of nations\u201d is the blubbering sentimentality of the defunct bully. Talk of a \u201cnasty divorce\u201d is a final retreat into threat.There is barely a trace of republicanism in Canada, I should point out; mentioning Constitutional Reform here is a social gaffe roughly on the level of farting in soup. Nobody wants to fight battles here the way the Scots are fighting them over there. Quebec separatism is at low ebb. The Parti Quebecois is out of power, after a humiliating attempt to win the provincial election on immigrant-baiting. It has become clear in the past two decades that Quebec\u2019s distinct culture can survive inside Canada. It has also become clear that in terms of the things that really matter \u2013 health care and education and which wars to go to \u2013 generally speaking Quebec and the rest of Canada are really very similar indeed. The reason we\u2019re so similar isn\u2019t that surprising: we built a country together.It is exactly that commonality that the British can no longer muster. The Union Jack may still fly over Scotland at the end of this week, but the ones that fly over Canadian capitals are already anachronistic embarrassments. Maybe if the Union Jack lowers from the masts of the United Kingdom, we can finally lower it from ours.", "tags": ["Scottish independence", "Canada", "Scotland", "Scottish politics", "Americas", "British identity and society"], "title": "Why Canada wants Scotland to vote 'yes' | Stephen Marche"},{"date": "2014-09-24T13:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "With help from the Rainforest Alliance, a brave young Costa Rican tree frog is traveling around the world to make new friends and find out what humans are doing to help save her home. This is the second in a series of five weekly dispatches about her experiences.Summer\u2019s in high season, and Mr Frank spends every waking daylight hour in his backyard, an edible oasis bursting with blooms and birds. He\u2019s up early blending in compost with his hand trowel. He leans back and surveys the rows of beans, broccoli and eggplant. Mr F (as the kids refer to their beloved science teacher) grimaces at the yellowing spinach \u2013 his personal challenge \u2013 but beams at his prize heirloom tomatoes. He plucks a juicy beefsteak from the vine and takes a bite.Unlike most home gardeners, Mr F delights researching and experimenting with different heirlooms \u2013 sprouting them from seed. He\u2019s especially proud of his discovery of the \u201cmortgage lifter\u201d. True to its name, these tomatoes\u2019 sales at his local farmers\u2019 market have trimmed his summer energy bill nicely. That\u2019s one reason Mrs F has tolerated the gradual takeover of the garage with gardening supplies. But since their shared Prius no longer fits in the garage, Mrs F has decided it\u2019s time for an honest-to-goodness gardening shed. Soon a truck arrives with a massive box emblazoned \u201cDIY Garden Shed.\u201d But I smell something rotten and it has nothing to do with fallen fruit under the cherry trees. Before the box is off the tailgate, we\u2019re inspecting it for the Forest Stewardship Council seal. \u201cYou know, I thought this product was sustainably harvested, eh?\u201d I say in my best Canadian accent. \u201cBut I can\u2019t find that FSC seal anywhere. How else can we know that the great boreal forests aren\u2019t being clear cut, that our water is being protected \u2026 and that the wildlife remain plentiful?\u201d Mr F goes into science teacher mode. \u201cI don\u2019t see any proof on this box,\u201d he says. \u201cWe\u2019re sending it back.\u201d Mr F goes on about life without trees, caribou and trout. That\u2019s when the driver recognizes his old teacher; he knows it\u2019s pointless to resist. \u201cAll right, Mr F,\u201d he says with a slow nod. \u201cWe\u2019ll get the right kit. And then maybe we\u2019ll be back for some of those tomatoes.\u201dContent on this page is provided by the Rainforest Alliance, supporter of the Vital Signs platform. ", "tags": ["Rainforest Alliance partner zone"], "title": "Frog diaries: join the Rainforest Alliance frog in Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-10T00:01:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The grisly and mysterious tale of two British ships that disappeared in the Arctic in 1845 has baffled generations and sparked one of history's longest rescue searches. But now, more than 160 years later, Canadian divers have finally found the remains of one of the doomed Navy vessels.Legend has it that sailors on board the HMS Erebus and HMS Terror, who were chosen by the explorer Sir John Franklin, resorted to cannibalism after the ships became ice-bound in the Victoria Strait in the Arctic territory of Nunavut.Search parties hunted for the crew until 1859, but no sign of either ship was discovered until now. However, tantalising clues have emerged over the years, including the bodies of three crewmen, discovered in the 1980s.The Franklin expedition's mission to the fabled Northwest Passage had frustrated explorers for centuries and the sea crossing was only successfully made 58 years later, far further north. The original search expeditions in the 19th century helped open up parts of the Canadian Arctic for discovery.Canadian divers and archaeologists rekindled efforts to find the ships in 2008 as the government looked to assert its sovereignty over the Northwest Passage.Announcing the find, Canadian prime minister Stephen Harper said: \"This is truly a historic moment for Canada. This has been a great Canadian story and mystery and the subject of scientists, historians, writers and singers, so I think we really have an important day in mapping the history of our country.\"\"Franklin's ships are an important part of Canadian history given that his expeditions, which took place nearly 200 years ago, laid the foundations of Canada's Arctic sovereignty,\" he said.An image of the discovery shows the wooden vessel has remained largely intact, though the main mast has been sheared off. The ship was resting upright on the sea bed only 11 meters below the surface. Searchers used remotely operated underwater technology to find the ship on Sunday, although it remains unclear which of the two vessels it is. The discovery comes shortly after divers found an iron fitting from one of the boats.The myths surrounding the Franklin expedition have helped make the vessels among the most sought-after prizes in marine archaeology.Experts believe the crews abandoned the two ships in a doomed bid to find help after both of their ships became locked in ice near King William Island.The remains of the crew were hard to find because they wandered for hundreds of miles over the ice and, at the time, the Inuit gave conflicted accounts of the directions they took. However, over the years traces of 70 crew members have been found.", "tags": ["Arctic", "Canada", "UK news"], "title": "British ship from 1845 Franklin expedition found by Canada"},{"date": "2014-09-02T16:43:43Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Pop star Justin Bieber was arrested Friday after crashing an ATV into a minivan and getting into a fight.Bieber, 20, was arrested at about 3pm Friday by Canadian provincial police and charged with assault and dangerous driving in rural southwestern Ontario, in the town of Perth East. Police said that Bieber\u2019s vehicle collided with a minivan and that Bieber then got into a fight with one of its occupants. Authorities didn\u2019t say whether anyone else was arrested in the incident, and declined to provide a mug shot.He was released without bail, and is scheduled to appear in Stratford, Ontario court on 29 September. Bieber is already on probation in California. It\u2019s unclear whether the arrest could constitute a violation. ", "tags": ["Justin Bieber", "Canada", "Americas", "Culture", "US news"], "title": "Justin Bieber arrested for assault and dangerous driving in Canada"},{"date": "2014-08-11T08:00:31Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Enigmatic musician Lewis has been found. Light in the Attic Records claim to have tracked down the mysterious musician whose self-released 1983 debut became a recent underground hit. Alive and well, Randall Wulff is apparently still making music and doesn\u2019t want any money from the reissue campaign that turned his prescient early songs into contemporary cult favourites.\u201cWe found [Lewis] looking calm, cool and collected, sitting outside a little neighbourhood coffee shop drinking a large hot coffee,\u201d Light In The Attic said in a statement. They had apparently come looking for him in an unnamed Canadian city, following a tip from one of Lewis\u2019s old friends. \u201cHe had no idea about the recent interest in his old records and didn\u2019t seem to care in the slightest,\u201d they revealed. \u201cWe had a check for him but he wasn\u2019t interested ... [He] said, \u2018I wish you guys all the best. [But] I\u2019m not looking back.\u201dThis past spring, Light In The Attic reissued L\u2019Amour, a 30-year-old collection of synth-laden songs that outsider music fans had been trading online since 2012. Just two months later, crate-diggers discovered a second Lewis album, also privately-pressed: Romantic Times, from 1985, which the label released this summer. And yet despite the popularity of both LPs, nobody had been able to find Lewis. Light In The Attic uncovered only his real name, Randall Wulff, some of the places he had spent time (Los Angeles, Alberta, Hawaii), and the fact that he never paid photographer Ed Colver for L\u2019Amour\u2019s cover shot.Wulff now apparently goes by \u201cRandy\u201d. \u201cWe brought him CDs and LPs of L\u2019Amour,\u201d Light In The Attic wrote. \u201cHe took a look, impressed (\u2018nice\u2019), and smiled, recalling a number of positive stories from back in the day. Then handed back the CD, saying it was for us and kindly declined keeping it. Randy simply wanted to look forward with both his life and music and had no interest in any celebrity or financial gain having to do with the albums. He told us over and over again, \u2018That was a long time ago.\u2019\u201dIn light of Wulff\u2019s ambivalence, Light in the Attic have announced that they will not repress L\u2019Amour or Romantic Times once their current stock runs out. \u201cIt doesn\u2019t feel right collecting money from [Lewis\u2019s] art and him not sharing in it regardless of how incredibly positive he was about the entire thing,\u201d they said. His royalties will remain in escrow should he ever choose to claim them.Wulff is now working on new music - songs that took him \u201c40, 50 years to write,\u201d he said. And fans have uncovered a YouTube video showing a Lewis-like \u201cRandy Duke\u201d working at a Vancouver studio in 2012. But there\u2019s no word on whether these songs will ever be released. \u201cI\u2019m not looking into coin,\u201d Wulff told Light In The Attic. \u201cI\u2019m not looking into anything. I\u2019m just strumming my guitar.\u201d", "tags": ["Music", "Culture", "Indie"], "title": "Lewis located: Enigmatic singer found sipping coffee in Canada"},{"date": "2014-07-01T11:45:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Cheerful good manners, unwavering order and maple leaves as far as the eye can see. In the Great White North this can only add up to one of 365 things: Canada Day, or every other day of the year. To be sure, the country's decency and relentless good fortune are worth celebrating on this, its 147th birthday.Canada recently ranked fifth in the OECD's Better Life Index, and its cities routinely top lists from the most resilient to the most livable. But none of this justifies the year-round ubiquity of its national symbol. Admit it, Canada: you've got a maple leaf problem.As with the US's obesity crisis or Britain's functional alcoholism, Canada's maple leaf addiction is almost impossible to see from the inside. Only by moving abroad can one get a handle on the true scale of the thing.My epiphany came during a recent trip to Toronto, the city where I grew up. With mounting disbelief, then embarrassment, then resignation, I stopped counting maple leaves when I reached 40 \u2013 and that was before I'd cleared customs. There were maple leaves blushing on \"welcome home\" posters; maple leaf patches sewn on to rucksacks; maple leaves on replica shirts of Toronto's hockey team, the Maple Leafs; and special edition Toronto Blue Jays caps that replaced the team's logo, stubbornly resembling something other than a maple leaf, with a maple leaf; while outside, a be-leafed Air Canada plane bearing be-leafed airborne Canadians drifted leaf-like on to the runway.My partner, a Norwegian, was incredulous. In pride-averse Norway, she explained, the flag can be tastefully flown on only a few occasions each year \u2013 birthdays and national day \u2013 and edible Nordic crosses are unheard of. Granted, Canada isn't in Europe, where even the most benign expressions of nationalism should be treated as potentially apocalyptic. But maybe, just maybe, her compatriots are on to something.The rest of our trip brought more of the same: maple leaves winking in corporate logos, doubling as apostrophes, or floating gratuitously in the margins; maple leaf pavestones on the city's redeveloped waterfront; maple leaves tattooed on men's arms; and, of course, maple leaves hanging sheepishly in the background of Rob Ford apology news conferences. The country appeared to have finally done it: more Canadian things have leaves on them than don't.How did we get here? One easy answer is the leaf's versatility. The union jack renders brilliantly on a novelty hat \u2013 that's just a fact \u2013 but you wouldn't go squeezing it on to a pair of mittens. Conversely, stretch it any bigger than Geri Halliwell and it starts to overwhelm. Not so the leaf, which works at any size \u2013 on beer bottle caps to jumbo jet tail fins to, I assume, the leaf-shaped jacuzzi in Chad Kroeger and Avril Lavigne's marital en suite.A second, related answer is corporate red-washing. It's a known fact among US marketing departments that, all things being equal, the discerning Canadian consumer chooses the leaf-waving establishment every time. McDonald's knows this. So does Taco Bell. So do Sears, Target, General Motors and loads more with maple leaves added to their logos. But how to explain the leaves Canadians choose for ourselves? The biscuits, the sports paraphernalia, the tattoos? Cunning though they are, American fast food franchises can at worst be accused of simply exploiting, not creating, the demand. Here, I'm afraid, it's impossible to avoid the existential question that most Canadians would prefer not to acknowledge: if a tree falls in the forest and no one is around to carve a maple leaf in to it, is it basically just American?They may be unpleasant, but this question and others like it are the natural, even inevitable, consequence of a national identity forged on the edge of a global superpower. Over the course of its history Canada has traded one bit part for another, going from frozen colonial outpost to occasionally evident northern neighbour; source of beavers to source of Bieber. No wonder we assert our existence on every scrap of fabric, every sheet of paper, and every commemorative mug, coin and plaque in sight. We put maple leaves on everything, therefore we are.So by all means, Canada, go nuts with the leaves \u2013 today. As of tomorrow morning, admitting you have a problem is the first step to overcoming it.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Admit it, Canada, you're obsessed with the maple leaf | Nick Aveling"},{"date": "2014-09-13T15:32:59Z", "country": "canada", "content": "For several centuries, the North-West passage was a myth. The idea of a route around the frozen north of Canada to the Indies that avoided the French, Dutch and Spanish ships that prowled the south seas was a fabulous prize for the British, one that spawned hundreds of expeditions, beginning as early as the reign of Henry VII.By 1815, war with Napoleon was over and the British had a gigantic navy with nothing to do. For John Barrow, the secretary of the Admiralty, finding the passage was an obsession, says Michael Smith, author of Last Man Standing, a biography of Francis Crozier, the captain of the HMS Terror. He sent a flurry of expeditions. As Smith says: \u201cAll spectacularly failed.\u201dThe Franklin expedition, in 1845, was Barrow\u2019s last shot. It was commanded by Rear Admiral Sir John Franklin, a retired diplomat and explorer who had never actually attempted a polar expedition by sea before. The HMS Terror and the HMS Erebus, state-of-the-art steamships with iron-reinforced hulls, set sail from England on 19 May, accompanied by a supply vessel, the Baretto Junior, which was to go as far as Greenland.The Guardian \u2013 at the time still the Manchester Guardian \u2013 printed a letter sent back to England with the Baretto Junior by one of the officers of the expedition, written by the light of the midnight sun. \u201cThe weather here is delightful,\u201d it reads. \u201cWe have received accounts from the Danes that the state of the ice to the northward is very favourable to our enterprise.\u201d\u201cWho knows!\u201d it goes on. \u201cWe may get through this year.\u201dThe two ships were reported seen by British whaling ships in Baffin Bay, west of Greenland, before they left to cross Lancaster Sound. They were never seen again.Exactly what happened to the Franklin expedition was a mystery that captured the public imagination. Dozens of missions to find the ships were launched, and while they never found them, during the search the northern waterways of Canada were mapped and explored.John Rae, a Scottish explorer and a consultant for the Hudson Bay Company, contacted native Inuit who had found the remains of some of the members of the doomed expedition. He concluded that \u201cit is evident that our wretched Countrymen had been driven to the last dread alternative \u2013 cannibalism\u201d.To prove his case, he brought back some artefacts the Inuit had. One of them was a silver plate engraved with the name of Sir John Franklin.Apart from these findings, the fate of the expedition remained a mystery for almost 170 years \u2013 until this week, when the wreckage of one of the ships was found by a Canadian scientific team. Ryan Harris, one of the lead archaeologists on the expedition, said that finding the ship was \u201clike winning the Stanley Cup\u201d.The official announcement of the find was made by Stephen Harper, the prime minister of Canada. \u201cThis is truly a historic moment for Canada,\u201d he said, in a bombastic statement to the press. \u201cFranklin\u2019s ships are an important part of Canadian history given that his expeditions, which took place nearly 200 years ago, laid the foundations of Canada\u2019s Arctic sovereignty.\u201dThe certainty of the statement was perplexing to Suzanne Lalonde, a professor of international law at the University of Montreal. \u201cI\u2019ve been struggling with it \u2013 the way Prime Minister Harper announced the find as if there was a monumental confirmation of Canadian sovereignty,\u201d she told the Guardian.Canada\u2019s position is that the North-West Passage is already Canadian. In an official statement to the Guardian, Christine Constantin, a spokeswoman for the Canadian embassy in Washington, said: \u201cAll waters of the Canadian Arctic archipelago, including the various waterways known as the \u2018North-West Passage\u2019, are internal waters of Canada \u2026 Canada\u2019s sovereignty over its waters in the Arctic is longstanding and well established.\u201cNo one disputes that the various waterways known as the \u2018North-West Passage\u2019 are Canadian waters.\u201dThe routes usually taken to constitute the North-West Passage pass between Canada\u2019s mainland territory and its Arctic islands.Unfortunately, the United States disputes just that. A State Department official told the Guardian there has been \u201cno recent change in our position \u2013 the North-West Passage is an international strait\u201d.This might come as news to most Canadians. \u201cIf you asked the average Canadian,\u201d says Tim Harper, a columnist for the Toronto Star (and no relation to the PM), \u201cthey would have no idea there was dispute. We believe that is our territory.\u201dHarper thinks that the prime minister\u2019s statement is a conscious move by the Canadian government, aimed at establishing Canada\u2019s de facto sovereignty over the North-West Passage in the collective psyche. \u201cThe way [Stephen Harper] made Arctic sovereignty a priority when he came to power \u2013 he is trying to counteract the US view that this is an international waterway,\u201d he said. \u201cThe more activity, the more high-profile actions \u2013 which this certainly was \u2013 it makes a sort of de facto case. It reinforces in the public and international consciousness that this is a Canadian waterway.\u201dHe said nobody would go so far as to suggest that finding the ship made a legal case for sovereignty \u2013 the ship is, after all, British \u2013 \u201cbut it helps as a symbolic case\u201d.The disagreement between Canada and the US dates back as far as the Reagan administration. In 1985, a US icebreaker called the USCGC Polar Sea navigated the North-West Passage without Canadian authorisation, which caused outrage in Canada \u2013 outrage the Soviet Union stoked by officially backing Canada\u2019s position.In the wake of the controversy, Canada\u2019s drew lines around its outer Arctic limits, and has since claimed everything within those lines as \u201cinternal waters\u201d. But the US never recognised that move as legitimate.In a letter to the Canadian prime minister, Brian Mulroney, President Reagan said \u201cwe cannot agree to an arrangement that obliges us to seek permission for our vessels to navigate through the North-West Passage\u201d.Since then, an uneasy pact between the two positions and the relative impassability of the North-West Passage to any vessels other than icebreakers has left the issue largely academic. But now, climate change is drastically improving ice conditions \u2013 the same change that made it possible to find the wreck \u2013 and promises to turn the North-West Passage from the murderous icebound straits that claimed the Erebus and the Terror into the sort of lucrative trade route Franklin set out to find.The US Office of Naval Intelligence Arctic Roadmap shows that while in 2012 the North-West Passage never dropped below 40% sea ice \u2013 to all intents and purposes impassable to commercial traffic \u2013 it projects that by 2025 therewill be an eight-week \u201cshoulder season\u201d, where the passage will have only 10-40% sea ice, and by 2030 there will be five weeks in mid-September where the route is projected to be \u201copen water\u201d, with less than 10% sea ice.In fact, the first large freight vessel ever to pass the North-West Passage did so last year \u2013 the Nordic Orion, delivering coal from Vancouver to Finland. As the Panama Canal reaches capacity, the potential for another viable shipping route between the Pacific and the Atlantic is of vast commercial significance.Ultimately, Lalonde, who spent four years working on a research project about the legal and political implications of a thawing and increasingly navigable North-West Passage, thinks that Harper\u2019s braggadocio \u2013 as well as the millions his government spent on the search \u2013 is meant as a visible and symbolic confirmation of how serious Canada is about the north, and how determined he is to reaffirm it as part of Canada\u2019s national identity. She said the lines drawn in 1985 only have legal basis if their claim to outline \u201chistoric waters\u201d gain credibility.\u201cIf that\u2019s the case,\u201d she said, \u201cif he can convince the world of that, then the fact that we\u2019ve been integral in discovering the wreck, and we keep hammering home that we have been present in those waters for a century, that we are governing those waters, [then] I think these are all elements that feed into that legal position.\u201dCanada, which has been a signatory to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea since 2003, is currently working on the second part a submission to a UN commission that would extend its sovereignty by defining by coastal shelf \u2013 which would almost certainly also bring it into direct conflict with Russia, which, like Canada, claims jurisdiction reaching past the North Pole.Russia\u2019s tactics have also been symbolically manipulative, even going so far as to plant a flag on the seabed at the Pole in 2007. At the time, a former Canadian foreign minister responded testily: \u201cThis isn\u2019t the 15th century. You can\u2019t go around the world and just plant flags.\u201d", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "US news", "US foreign policy", "Russia", "Arctic", "Oceans", "Climate change", "Environment", "World news"], "title": "Canada uses Franklin expedition wreck to boost North-West Passage claim"},{"date": "2014-12-27T07:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Every wayfarer instinctively understands that travel can take them to a wonderful world of extraordinary adventure and education. The town of Churchill, on the shore of Hudson Bay in Manitoba, northern Canada, is a destination which I consider one of the photographic capitals of the world. This trip rewired my brain into thinking of ways to push my photography to the next level.I stayed at Lazy Bear Lodge in Churchill, which arranged a full itinerary. The tundra tour took us deep into the wilderness, where I saw attractions, such as the wrecks of the Miss Piggy, a 1979 freight plane, and the mysterious MV Ithaca. These subjects have disrupted the beauty of the Churchill countryside and can now be used to develop some creative images.The experienced guides from Lazy Bear Lodge made me feel like I was part of Canada\u2019s chronicle. I learned all about the town\u2019s colourful and tragic history. I followed in the footsteps of Sir John Franklin, the intrepid sailor who battled for years through treacherous seas and freak weather conditions in search of the Northwest Passage. On the water, I explored Hudson Bay, seeking out the polar bears frolicking in the rocks along the water\u2019s edge, and kayaked among the beluga whales which congregate in their thousands at the mouth of the Churchill river. As a scuba diver and underwater photographer, the highlight of my trip was to swim with beluga whales and photograph wildlife I would otherwise never have experienced, such as snowy owls and huskies.The trip gave my photography a new perspective and brought me experiences that will remain with me for a lifetime.\u2022 The prize, organised by the Canadian Tourism Commission, was a six-night trip to Churchill, Canada, on Lazy Bear Lodge\u2019s Ultimate Arctic Summer Adventure (lazybearlodge.com/tours). More information about holidays in Canada at keepexploring.ca\u2022 superjolly.com", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Travel photography", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel photography competition:  winners' trip to Canada"},{"date": "2014-12-27T07:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Every wayfarer instinctively understands that travel can take them to a wonderful world of extraordinary adventure and education. The town of Churchill, on the shore of Hudson Bay in Manitoba, northern Canada, is a destination which I consider one of the photographic capitals of the world. This trip rewired my brain into thinking of ways to push my photography to the next level.I stayed at Lazy Bear Lodge in Churchill, which arranged a full itinerary. The tundra tour took us deep into the wilderness, where I saw attractions, such as the wrecks of the Miss Piggy, a 1979 freight plane, and the mysterious MV Ithaca. These subjects have disrupted the beauty of the Churchill countryside and can now be used to develop some creative images.The experienced guides from Lazy Bear Lodge made me feel like I was part of Canada\u2019s chronicle. I learned all about the town\u2019s colourful and tragic history. I followed in the footsteps of Sir John Franklin, the intrepid sailor who battled for years through treacherous seas and freak weather conditions in search of the Northwest Passage. On the water, I explored Hudson Bay, seeking out the polar bears frolicking in the rocks along the water\u2019s edge, and kayaked among the beluga whales which congregate in their thousands at the mouth of the Churchill river. As a scuba diver and underwater photographer, the highlight of my trip was to swim with beluga whales and photograph wildlife I would otherwise never have experienced, such as snowy owls and huskies.The trip gave my photography a new perspective and brought me experiences that will remain with me for a lifetime.\u2022 The prize, organised by the Canadian Tourism Commission, was a six-night trip to Churchill, Canada, on Lazy Bear Lodge\u2019s Ultimate Arctic Summer Adventure (lazybearlodge.com/tours). More information about holidays in Canada at keepexploring.ca\u2022 superjolly.com", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Travel photography", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel photography competition:  winners' trip to Canada"},{"date": "2014-11-24T10:16:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, from Katherine Stansfield\u2019s lively first collection, Playing House, has some of the restless vocal complexity of a Baroque fugue. A more obvious literary relative would be the sestina. In fact, Canada seems to adapt a few sestina-like techniques, while firmly announcing that, no, it\u2019s not a sestina, nor would wish to be. For a start, there are five rather than six-and-a-half stanzas, each with seven lines rather than six: the lines vary in length so, visually, the poem has an un-sestina-like rugged (mountainous?) outline. It sings more than most sestinas. But both fugue and sestina are forms constrained by fixed rules of repetition. Canada has multiple repetands, but no obvious symmetrical plot for their appearance (unless sharper ears than mine can discern one).The patterns flow and change. For example, some form of the verb, to run, appears in every stanza, in lines two, seven, five, one, six, whereas the forms of pine, which features both as noun (\u201cpines\u201d as in pine-trees) and verb (\u201cpining\u201d) appear in lines three, four, five, four, four. The first line of the first stanza comes back as the last, with a new grammatical twist \u2013 but that twist, involving a full-stop and a single word beginning a new sentence, stops short of becoming a repeated last-line device. The random element seems important, in keeping with the organic nature of the imagery. Words and meanings are at liberty to dissolve like snow, or maintain their shape for longer, like rock.One of the key-words, spool, and its derivations, perhaps best describes this fluid, cinematic process. Canada, the poem\u2019s addressee and imagined place, is recreated from deliberately stereotypical characteristics \u2013 pines, lakes, snow, etc \u2013 but not locked into definition. It\u2019s unmappable \u2013 a land both out there and inside the speaker. It spools away and is drawn back and around that consciousness. Although the observation \u201cno one comes\u201d is a major repeating motif, the speaker seems less an isolated figure than one whose being (head, hands, bones, heartbeats) is assimilated into and by the landscape: \u201cThe lakes are my hands/ running into the heart, into bone \u2026 \u201d The descriptive writing may border on the surreal, as here, or attain vivid metaphorical presence, as when \u201cwinter snows the lakes/ to rock\u201d or rock becomes \u201cthe bone of land\u201d. It\u2019s always unexpected, potent, and sparked by compression and juxtaposition.There are many subtle and enjoyable word-shifts. I like the compounds, \u201cLake//forest\u201d, \u201cbone-beaten\u201d and \u201csnow-muddy\u201d (a verb), and the use of \u201ckeep\u201d as a noun in the seventh line, stanza four. Passive and active voices of the verb (\u201csee\u201d, \u201cseen\u201d, \u201cbeat\u201d, \u201cbeaten\u201d) help merge place and poet. \u201cSpool\u201d becomes \u201cPool\u201d in the second line of the last stanza, where it might be the verb of a command, or a noun suggesting a pool reflecting heart, bones and hands. Dualism is a constant feature: blackness and snow, rock and muddiness, shadows and bones, land and lake, head and heart, stasis and flow.Canada is surely a love poem. The speaker declares strong emotions, and is concerned with charting them in a form that denotes obsession. As a troubadour-poet permits his mistress to set ice and fire at raging war inside him, Stansfield\u2019s persona is permissive, willing to be subjugated to the linguistic icons that mean \u201cCanada\u201d. Petrarch spooled tireless love poems to Laura, a woman he\u2019d apparently seen only once: the concept of inspiration by the unseen and unavailable is a deeply engrained tradition in western poetry. Here, \u201cI\u2019ve never seen you\u201d is a statement unpicked and disproven: the poem conjures a suspicion that literal \u201cnot-seeing\u201d may be crucial to imagination\u2019s inner sight. Not unlike Petrarch\u2019s Laura, Wordsworth\u2019s daffodils, flashing \u201cupon that inward eye\u201d, were not only re-seen. They were seen as if they could see the poet.The power of the transitive use of \u201cruns\u201d reinforces that thought. Canada \u201cruns\u201d the speakers heart in the beginning, \u201cbut not bone\u201d. At the end, Canada\u2019s forest \u201cruns\u201d the speaker\u2019s head, which is both bone and softer tissue. Perhaps the most important repeated motif, \u201cNo one comes\u201d, ends the poem on a note of bleakness. In a projected movement away from sensation and emotion, the idealised \u201cforest, shadowed muddy, black as winter\u201d finally, perhaps, begins to disappear.CanadaI\u2019ve never seen you.In my head you run from mein a spool: winter lakes pining for night,blackened snow, muddy as shadow.No one comes. In the heart of your forest I beatmy hands on rock, on the bone of landI\u2019ve never seen. Yourun the heart, but not bone.No one comes. The forest is blackand muddies rock. Shadows never beatmy head but in winter. I\u2019ve seen pines spoolingnight from your land like snow.The lakes are my handsrunning into the heart, into bonethough winter snows the lakesto rock. In the black forestheartbeats spool shadows. Do yousee? No one comes. Nightand the bones in the pines run muddy.My head is never a land insidethough winter snows. Lakeforest, keep runninginto the land shadowed by my head.You spool rock and bone-beaten hearts. I see pines snow-muddythe black of the lakes.No one comes. Never. Winteris the forest keep. Running,no one comes.Pool to see my heart, bones, hands,beaten by the land and the lakes and the rocksand the pines and the snow I\u2019ve never seen.At night, shadowed muddy, black as winter,your forest runs my head.No one comes.", "tags": ["Poetry", "Books"], "title": "Poem of the week: Canada by Katherine Stansfield"},{"date": "2014-12-27T07:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Every wayfarer instinctively understands that travel can take them to a wonderful world of extraordinary adventure and education. The town of Churchill, on the shore of Hudson Bay in Manitoba, northern Canada, is a destination which I consider one of the photographic capitals of the world. This trip rewired my brain into thinking of ways to push my photography to the next level.I stayed at Lazy Bear Lodge in Churchill, which arranged a full itinerary. The tundra tour took us deep into the wilderness, where I saw attractions, such as the wrecks of the Miss Piggy, a 1979 freight plane, and the mysterious MV Ithaca. These subjects have disrupted the beauty of the Churchill countryside and can now be used to develop some creative images.The experienced guides from Lazy Bear Lodge made me feel like I was part of Canada\u2019s chronicle. I learned all about the town\u2019s colourful and tragic history. I followed in the footsteps of Sir John Franklin, the intrepid sailor who battled for years through treacherous seas and freak weather conditions in search of the Northwest Passage. On the water, I explored Hudson Bay, seeking out the polar bears frolicking in the rocks along the water\u2019s edge, and kayaked among the beluga whales which congregate in their thousands at the mouth of the Churchill river. As a scuba diver and underwater photographer, the highlight of my trip was to swim with beluga whales and photograph wildlife I would otherwise never have experienced, such as snowy owls and huskies.The trip gave my photography a new perspective and brought me experiences that will remain with me for a lifetime.\u2022 The prize, organised by the Canadian Tourism Commission, was a six-night trip to Churchill, Canada, on Lazy Bear Lodge\u2019s Ultimate Arctic Summer Adventure (lazybearlodge.com/tours). More information about holidays in Canada at keepexploring.ca\u2022 superjolly.com", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Travel photography", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel photography competition:  winners' trip to Canada"},{"date": "2014-11-24T10:16:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, from Katherine Stansfield\u2019s lively first collection, Playing House, has some of the restless vocal complexity of a Baroque fugue. A more obvious literary relative would be the sestina. In fact, Canada seems to adapt a few sestina-like techniques, while firmly announcing that, no, it\u2019s not a sestina, nor would wish to be. For a start, there are five rather than six-and-a-half stanzas, each with seven lines rather than six: the lines vary in length so, visually, the poem has an un-sestina-like rugged (mountainous?) outline. It sings more than most sestinas. But both fugue and sestina are forms constrained by fixed rules of repetition. Canada has multiple repetands, but no obvious symmetrical plot for their appearance (unless sharper ears than mine can discern one).The patterns flow and change. For example, some form of the verb, to run, appears in every stanza, in lines two, seven, five, one, six, whereas the forms of pine, which features both as noun (\u201cpines\u201d as in pine-trees) and verb (\u201cpining\u201d) appear in lines three, four, five, four, four. The first line of the first stanza comes back as the last, with a new grammatical twist \u2013 but that twist, involving a full-stop and a single word beginning a new sentence, stops short of becoming a repeated last-line device. The random element seems important, in keeping with the organic nature of the imagery. Words and meanings are at liberty to dissolve like snow, or maintain their shape for longer, like rock.One of the key-words, spool, and its derivations, perhaps best describes this fluid, cinematic process. Canada, the poem\u2019s addressee and imagined place, is recreated from deliberately stereotypical characteristics \u2013 pines, lakes, snow, etc \u2013 but not locked into definition. It\u2019s unmappable \u2013 a land both out there and inside the speaker. It spools away and is drawn back and around that consciousness. Although the observation \u201cno one comes\u201d is a major repeating motif, the speaker seems less an isolated figure than one whose being (head, hands, bones, heartbeats) is assimilated into and by the landscape: \u201cThe lakes are my hands/ running into the heart, into bone \u2026 \u201d The descriptive writing may border on the surreal, as here, or attain vivid metaphorical presence, as when \u201cwinter snows the lakes/ to rock\u201d or rock becomes \u201cthe bone of land\u201d. It\u2019s always unexpected, potent, and sparked by compression and juxtaposition.There are many subtle and enjoyable word-shifts. I like the compounds, \u201cLake//forest\u201d, \u201cbone-beaten\u201d and \u201csnow-muddy\u201d (a verb), and the use of \u201ckeep\u201d as a noun in the seventh line, stanza four. Passive and active voices of the verb (\u201csee\u201d, \u201cseen\u201d, \u201cbeat\u201d, \u201cbeaten\u201d) help merge place and poet. \u201cSpool\u201d becomes \u201cPool\u201d in the second line of the last stanza, where it might be the verb of a command, or a noun suggesting a pool reflecting heart, bones and hands. Dualism is a constant feature: blackness and snow, rock and muddiness, shadows and bones, land and lake, head and heart, stasis and flow.Canada is surely a love poem. The speaker declares strong emotions, and is concerned with charting them in a form that denotes obsession. As a troubadour-poet permits his mistress to set ice and fire at raging war inside him, Stansfield\u2019s persona is permissive, willing to be subjugated to the linguistic icons that mean \u201cCanada\u201d. Petrarch spooled tireless love poems to Laura, a woman he\u2019d apparently seen only once: the concept of inspiration by the unseen and unavailable is a deeply engrained tradition in western poetry. Here, \u201cI\u2019ve never seen you\u201d is a statement unpicked and disproven: the poem conjures a suspicion that literal \u201cnot-seeing\u201d may be crucial to imagination\u2019s inner sight. Not unlike Petrarch\u2019s Laura, Wordsworth\u2019s daffodils, flashing \u201cupon that inward eye\u201d, were not only re-seen. They were seen as if they could see the poet.The power of the transitive use of \u201cruns\u201d reinforces that thought. Canada \u201cruns\u201d the speakers heart in the beginning, \u201cbut not bone\u201d. At the end, Canada\u2019s forest \u201cruns\u201d the speaker\u2019s head, which is both bone and softer tissue. Perhaps the most important repeated motif, \u201cNo one comes\u201d, ends the poem on a note of bleakness. In a projected movement away from sensation and emotion, the idealised \u201cforest, shadowed muddy, black as winter\u201d finally, perhaps, begins to disappear.CanadaI\u2019ve never seen you.In my head you run from mein a spool: winter lakes pining for night,blackened snow, muddy as shadow.No one comes. In the heart of your forest I beatmy hands on rock, on the bone of landI\u2019ve never seen. Yourun the heart, but not bone.No one comes. The forest is blackand muddies rock. Shadows never beatmy head but in winter. I\u2019ve seen pines spoolingnight from your land like snow.The lakes are my handsrunning into the heart, into bonethough winter snows the lakesto rock. In the black forestheartbeats spool shadows. Do yousee? No one comes. Nightand the bones in the pines run muddy.My head is never a land insidethough winter snows. Lakeforest, keep runninginto the land shadowed by my head.You spool rock and bone-beaten hearts. I see pines snow-muddythe black of the lakes.No one comes. Never. Winteris the forest keep. Running,no one comes.Pool to see my heart, bones, hands,beaten by the land and the lakes and the rocksand the pines and the snow I\u2019ve never seen.At night, shadowed muddy, black as winter,your forest runs my head.No one comes.", "tags": ["Poetry", "Books"], "title": "Poem of the week: Canada by Katherine Stansfield"},{"date": "2014-11-17T01:26:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada \u2013 one of the few countries previously in line with Australia\u2019s opposition to the international Green Climate Fund \u2013 now appears to have changed its mind, with Tony Abbott\u2019s close friend prime minister Stephen Harper saying he is preparing to make a contribution.Abbott has defied global pressure to commit to the fund, designed to help poor countries adapt to climate change, because Australia is already spending $2.5bn on its domestic Direct Action fund and providing $10bn in capital to a so-called \u201cgreen bank\u201d \u2013 which he is trying to abolish.World leaders forced Australia to include stronger language about the Green Climate Fund in the G20 communique \u2013 and during the summit Barack Obama pledged the US would contribute $3bn to it and the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, offered $1.5bn. But soon after the conference was over Abbott indicated it would make no immediate difference to Australia\u2019s position.On Sunday Harper said Canada was preparing to make a contribution to the UN fund, the Globe and Mail and other Canadian media outlets reported. He did not nominate an amount.Last November, Abbott and Harper \u201cmade history\u201d by jointly dissenting from support for the Green Climate Fund in a communique from the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting.Speaking after a meeting on Sunday night with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, Abbott said Direct Action \u2013 which funds Australia\u2019s domestic emissions reduction, not international efforts \u2013 was already \u201cquite a substantial fund\u201d. He also cited the Clean Energy Finance Corporation, which he is committed to abolish.\u201cWe also have a Clean Energy Finance Corporation which was established by the former government and there is $10bn in capital which has been allocated to this,\u201d he said. \u201cIn addition to those two funds a proportion of our overseas aid, particularly in the Pacific, is allocated for various environmental schemes including schemes to deal with climate change. So, we are doing a very great deal and I suppose given what we are doing we don\u2019t intend, at this time, to do more.\u201dEnvironment minister Greg Hunt tried to compare Obama\u2019s $3bn commitment to the international fund to be spent in poor countries with Australia\u2019s $2.5bn spending on its own domestic policy, saying that if the Direct Action fund was implemented in the US \u201con a like for like basis it would be the equivalent of a $25bn fund\u201d.Neither Abbott nor Hunt ruled out making a contribution to the fund at some time in the future and it is understood the Department of Foreign Affairs, which leads Australia\u2019s international climate negotiations, has been considering a donation. The fund is seen as a critical part of a successful outcome at the United Nations Paris conference next year, which will discuss a global emissions pact to take effect after 2020.But Abbott\u2019s trenchant opposition to the fund is seen as an impediment to any contribution. He has publicly disparaged it as an international \u201cBob Brown bank\u201d \u2013 another reference to the CEFC, which he wants to abolish but he also cites as evidence of Australia\u2019s climate action.As revealed by Guardian Australia, Abbott told world leaders at the Brisbane summit that as the leader of a major coal producer he would be \u201cstanding up for coal\u201d.The communique references demanded by other leaders, including Obama, were reluctantly accepted by Australia at the last minute. They included a call for contributions to the fund and for the \u201cphasing out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies\u201d.An EU spokesman reportedly described the climate negotiations with Australia as being like \u201ctrench warfare\u201d. Other officials said it had been \u201cvery difficult\u201d and protracted.Speaking to the media after the summit, Abbott downplayed the importance of the fund. He took a similar line on the greenhouse reduction pledges unveiled by Obama and the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, immediately before the summit.He said all nations \u201csupport strong action \u2026 to address climate change\u201d, but added: \u201cWe are all going to approach this in our own way and there are a range of [climate] funds which are there.\u201dObama and the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, both urged G20 countries to contribute to the Green Climate Fund. In the end, at Australia\u2019s insistence, the communique called for contributions to financing funds \u201csuch as the Green Climate Fund\u201d.Hunt suggested a regional rainforest fund, to which Australia recently pledged $6m, could substitute for contributions to the Green Climate Fund.", "tags": ["Climate change", "G20 Brisbane 2014", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Tony Abbott", "Coal", "Coalition", "Australia news", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "G20", "Australian politics", "Ban Ki-moon", "Greg Hunt", "Shinzo Abe", "Brisbane"], "title": "Canada breaks with Australia to contribute to Green Climate Fund"},{"date": "2014-12-27T07:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Every wayfarer instinctively understands that travel can take them to a wonderful world of extraordinary adventure and education. The town of Churchill, on the shore of Hudson Bay in Manitoba, northern Canada, is a destination which I consider one of the photographic capitals of the world. This trip rewired my brain into thinking of ways to push my photography to the next level.I stayed at Lazy Bear Lodge in Churchill, which arranged a full itinerary. The tundra tour took us deep into the wilderness, where I saw attractions, such as the wrecks of the Miss Piggy, a 1979 freight plane, and the mysterious MV Ithaca. These subjects have disrupted the beauty of the Churchill countryside and can now be used to develop some creative images.The experienced guides from Lazy Bear Lodge made me feel like I was part of Canada\u2019s chronicle. I learned all about the town\u2019s colourful and tragic history. I followed in the footsteps of Sir John Franklin, the intrepid sailor who battled for years through treacherous seas and freak weather conditions in search of the Northwest Passage. On the water, I explored Hudson Bay, seeking out the polar bears frolicking in the rocks along the water\u2019s edge, and kayaked among the beluga whales which congregate in their thousands at the mouth of the Churchill river. As a scuba diver and underwater photographer, the highlight of my trip was to swim with beluga whales and photograph wildlife I would otherwise never have experienced, such as snowy owls and huskies.The trip gave my photography a new perspective and brought me experiences that will remain with me for a lifetime.\u2022 The prize, organised by the Canadian Tourism Commission, was a six-night trip to Churchill, Canada, on Lazy Bear Lodge\u2019s Ultimate Arctic Summer Adventure (lazybearlodge.com/tours). More information about holidays in Canada at keepexploring.ca\u2022 superjolly.com", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Travel photography", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel photography competition:  winners' trip to Canada"},{"date": "2014-11-24T10:16:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, from Katherine Stansfield\u2019s lively first collection, Playing House, has some of the restless vocal complexity of a Baroque fugue. A more obvious literary relative would be the sestina. In fact, Canada seems to adapt a few sestina-like techniques, while firmly announcing that, no, it\u2019s not a sestina, nor would wish to be. For a start, there are five rather than six-and-a-half stanzas, each with seven lines rather than six: the lines vary in length so, visually, the poem has an un-sestina-like rugged (mountainous?) outline. It sings more than most sestinas. But both fugue and sestina are forms constrained by fixed rules of repetition. Canada has multiple repetands, but no obvious symmetrical plot for their appearance (unless sharper ears than mine can discern one).The patterns flow and change. For example, some form of the verb, to run, appears in every stanza, in lines two, seven, five, one, six, whereas the forms of pine, which features both as noun (\u201cpines\u201d as in pine-trees) and verb (\u201cpining\u201d) appear in lines three, four, five, four, four. The first line of the first stanza comes back as the last, with a new grammatical twist \u2013 but that twist, involving a full-stop and a single word beginning a new sentence, stops short of becoming a repeated last-line device. The random element seems important, in keeping with the organic nature of the imagery. Words and meanings are at liberty to dissolve like snow, or maintain their shape for longer, like rock.One of the key-words, spool, and its derivations, perhaps best describes this fluid, cinematic process. Canada, the poem\u2019s addressee and imagined place, is recreated from deliberately stereotypical characteristics \u2013 pines, lakes, snow, etc \u2013 but not locked into definition. It\u2019s unmappable \u2013 a land both out there and inside the speaker. It spools away and is drawn back and around that consciousness. Although the observation \u201cno one comes\u201d is a major repeating motif, the speaker seems less an isolated figure than one whose being (head, hands, bones, heartbeats) is assimilated into and by the landscape: \u201cThe lakes are my hands/ running into the heart, into bone \u2026 \u201d The descriptive writing may border on the surreal, as here, or attain vivid metaphorical presence, as when \u201cwinter snows the lakes/ to rock\u201d or rock becomes \u201cthe bone of land\u201d. It\u2019s always unexpected, potent, and sparked by compression and juxtaposition.There are many subtle and enjoyable word-shifts. I like the compounds, \u201cLake//forest\u201d, \u201cbone-beaten\u201d and \u201csnow-muddy\u201d (a verb), and the use of \u201ckeep\u201d as a noun in the seventh line, stanza four. Passive and active voices of the verb (\u201csee\u201d, \u201cseen\u201d, \u201cbeat\u201d, \u201cbeaten\u201d) help merge place and poet. \u201cSpool\u201d becomes \u201cPool\u201d in the second line of the last stanza, where it might be the verb of a command, or a noun suggesting a pool reflecting heart, bones and hands. Dualism is a constant feature: blackness and snow, rock and muddiness, shadows and bones, land and lake, head and heart, stasis and flow.Canada is surely a love poem. The speaker declares strong emotions, and is concerned with charting them in a form that denotes obsession. As a troubadour-poet permits his mistress to set ice and fire at raging war inside him, Stansfield\u2019s persona is permissive, willing to be subjugated to the linguistic icons that mean \u201cCanada\u201d. Petrarch spooled tireless love poems to Laura, a woman he\u2019d apparently seen only once: the concept of inspiration by the unseen and unavailable is a deeply engrained tradition in western poetry. Here, \u201cI\u2019ve never seen you\u201d is a statement unpicked and disproven: the poem conjures a suspicion that literal \u201cnot-seeing\u201d may be crucial to imagination\u2019s inner sight. Not unlike Petrarch\u2019s Laura, Wordsworth\u2019s daffodils, flashing \u201cupon that inward eye\u201d, were not only re-seen. They were seen as if they could see the poet.The power of the transitive use of \u201cruns\u201d reinforces that thought. Canada \u201cruns\u201d the speakers heart in the beginning, \u201cbut not bone\u201d. At the end, Canada\u2019s forest \u201cruns\u201d the speaker\u2019s head, which is both bone and softer tissue. Perhaps the most important repeated motif, \u201cNo one comes\u201d, ends the poem on a note of bleakness. In a projected movement away from sensation and emotion, the idealised \u201cforest, shadowed muddy, black as winter\u201d finally, perhaps, begins to disappear.CanadaI\u2019ve never seen you.In my head you run from mein a spool: winter lakes pining for night,blackened snow, muddy as shadow.No one comes. In the heart of your forest I beatmy hands on rock, on the bone of landI\u2019ve never seen. Yourun the heart, but not bone.No one comes. The forest is blackand muddies rock. Shadows never beatmy head but in winter. I\u2019ve seen pines spoolingnight from your land like snow.The lakes are my handsrunning into the heart, into bonethough winter snows the lakesto rock. In the black forestheartbeats spool shadows. Do yousee? No one comes. Nightand the bones in the pines run muddy.My head is never a land insidethough winter snows. Lakeforest, keep runninginto the land shadowed by my head.You spool rock and bone-beaten hearts. I see pines snow-muddythe black of the lakes.No one comes. Never. Winteris the forest keep. Running,no one comes.Pool to see my heart, bones, hands,beaten by the land and the lakes and the rocksand the pines and the snow I\u2019ve never seen.At night, shadowed muddy, black as winter,your forest runs my head.No one comes.", "tags": ["Poetry", "Books"], "title": "Poem of the week: Canada by Katherine Stansfield"},{"date": "2014-11-17T01:26:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada \u2013 one of the few countries previously in line with Australia\u2019s opposition to the international Green Climate Fund \u2013 now appears to have changed its mind, with Tony Abbott\u2019s close friend prime minister Stephen Harper saying he is preparing to make a contribution.Abbott has defied global pressure to commit to the fund, designed to help poor countries adapt to climate change, because Australia is already spending $2.5bn on its domestic Direct Action fund and providing $10bn in capital to a so-called \u201cgreen bank\u201d \u2013 which he is trying to abolish.World leaders forced Australia to include stronger language about the Green Climate Fund in the G20 communique \u2013 and during the summit Barack Obama pledged the US would contribute $3bn to it and the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, offered $1.5bn. But soon after the conference was over Abbott indicated it would make no immediate difference to Australia\u2019s position.On Sunday Harper said Canada was preparing to make a contribution to the UN fund, the Globe and Mail and other Canadian media outlets reported. He did not nominate an amount.Last November, Abbott and Harper \u201cmade history\u201d by jointly dissenting from support for the Green Climate Fund in a communique from the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting.Speaking after a meeting on Sunday night with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, Abbott said Direct Action \u2013 which funds Australia\u2019s domestic emissions reduction, not international efforts \u2013 was already \u201cquite a substantial fund\u201d. He also cited the Clean Energy Finance Corporation, which he is committed to abolish.\u201cWe also have a Clean Energy Finance Corporation which was established by the former government and there is $10bn in capital which has been allocated to this,\u201d he said. \u201cIn addition to those two funds a proportion of our overseas aid, particularly in the Pacific, is allocated for various environmental schemes including schemes to deal with climate change. So, we are doing a very great deal and I suppose given what we are doing we don\u2019t intend, at this time, to do more.\u201dEnvironment minister Greg Hunt tried to compare Obama\u2019s $3bn commitment to the international fund to be spent in poor countries with Australia\u2019s $2.5bn spending on its own domestic policy, saying that if the Direct Action fund was implemented in the US \u201con a like for like basis it would be the equivalent of a $25bn fund\u201d.Neither Abbott nor Hunt ruled out making a contribution to the fund at some time in the future and it is understood the Department of Foreign Affairs, which leads Australia\u2019s international climate negotiations, has been considering a donation. The fund is seen as a critical part of a successful outcome at the United Nations Paris conference next year, which will discuss a global emissions pact to take effect after 2020.But Abbott\u2019s trenchant opposition to the fund is seen as an impediment to any contribution. He has publicly disparaged it as an international \u201cBob Brown bank\u201d \u2013 another reference to the CEFC, which he wants to abolish but he also cites as evidence of Australia\u2019s climate action.As revealed by Guardian Australia, Abbott told world leaders at the Brisbane summit that as the leader of a major coal producer he would be \u201cstanding up for coal\u201d.The communique references demanded by other leaders, including Obama, were reluctantly accepted by Australia at the last minute. They included a call for contributions to the fund and for the \u201cphasing out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies\u201d.An EU spokesman reportedly described the climate negotiations with Australia as being like \u201ctrench warfare\u201d. Other officials said it had been \u201cvery difficult\u201d and protracted.Speaking to the media after the summit, Abbott downplayed the importance of the fund. He took a similar line on the greenhouse reduction pledges unveiled by Obama and the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, immediately before the summit.He said all nations \u201csupport strong action \u2026 to address climate change\u201d, but added: \u201cWe are all going to approach this in our own way and there are a range of [climate] funds which are there.\u201dObama and the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, both urged G20 countries to contribute to the Green Climate Fund. In the end, at Australia\u2019s insistence, the communique called for contributions to financing funds \u201csuch as the Green Climate Fund\u201d.Hunt suggested a regional rainforest fund, to which Australia recently pledged $6m, could substitute for contributions to the Green Climate Fund.", "tags": ["Climate change", "G20 Brisbane 2014", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Tony Abbott", "Coal", "Coalition", "Australia news", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "G20", "Australian politics", "Ban Ki-moon", "Greg Hunt", "Shinzo Abe", "Brisbane"], "title": "Canada breaks with Australia to contribute to Green Climate Fund"},{"date": "2014-10-23T19:56:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government indicated on Thursday that it intends to speed up proposals to toughen the country\u2019s anti-terror laws in the wake of the attack on parliament in Ottawa, including a measure that would allow \u201cpreventative detention\u201d.As the House of Commons opened to rapturous applause for the sergeant-at-arms, the ceremonial security chief who prevented further tragedy by apparently killing the perpetrator of Wednesday\u2019s brazen assault, prime minister Stephen Harper indicated that his government was resolved to toughen the country\u2019s security legislation.The governing Conservatives have made no secret of their plan to install new anti-terror powers, giving the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) more powers to track, investigative and detain would-be homegrown terrorists. Harper promised the proposals would be brought forward.\u201cThey need to be much strengthened, and I assure you, Mr Speaker, that work which is already under way will be expedited,\u201d Mr Harper said.Details of those new powers have yet to be released, but justice minister Peter MacKay indicated to reporters that they will include measures to allow the preventive detention of suspected would-be terrorists.\u201cWe\u2019re examining all those sections of the criminal code, and all measures under the law that will allow us, in some instances, to take pre-emptive measures,\u201d he said.When asked about the schedule for the new legislation, government House leader\u200e Peter Van Loan refused to say exactly when a bill would come forward, acknowledging only that Wednesday\u2019s events had changed the context. A security bill, was originally due to be tabled on Wednesday morning.The Harper government contends that Canada\u2019s security agencies, tasked with thwarting attacks, are demanding greater powers, arguing that the current arrangements for judicial oversight hampers their ability to deal with imminent threats.But despite the cross-party show of unity and defiance on Thursday, opposition parties are warning that the government, in the wake of the Ottawa attack, is rushing to adopt expansive new spying powers without considering the consequences.The leader of the official opposition party, the New Democrats, Thomas Mulcair, said that one act of terrorism should not bend the Canadian way, nor should it even hamper the weekly yoga class that takes place on the front lawn of Parliament \u2013 a symbol, he said, of the openness of the Canadian legislature.\u201cWe cannot allow that openness and freedom to be rolled back either,\u201d he said.The Liberal party leader, Justin Trudeau, said those who attack Canada \u201cwill not make the rules about this land we share and they will not get to change us\u201d.Harper acknowledged the strain that Wednesday\u2019s events put on the capital, calling it \u201cbeyond and above anything that any of us are really expecting to face\u201d.But amid the determination and effort to return to normality, there was tight security in the downtown area \u2013 unusual for Ottawa. A security permitter around Parliament Hill meant that only a small number of staffers, parliamentarians and journalists were permitted through, and only at one checkpoint. Cordoned-off streets meant a headache for commuters.Despite the contentious debate on how to respond to the threat of domestic terrorism, the political parties were unified in their tribute to the sergeant-at-arms, Kevin Vickers, who was given a prolonged standing ovation at the opening of the parliamentary session.But Vickers was keen to praise his colleagues. \u201cDuring extraordinary circumstances, security personnel demonstrated professionalism and courage,\u201d he said in a statement. \u201cI am grateful and proud to be part of this team.\u201dReports emerged on Thursday that Vickers, after killing the shooter, rushed to a nearby room, where the Harper was meeting with his caucus, to ensure the prime minister\u2019s security.", "tags": ["Canada", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Gun crime", "Americas"], "title": "Canada considers 'preventative detention' in wake of Ottawa attack"},{"date": "2014-12-27T07:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Every wayfarer instinctively understands that travel can take them to a wonderful world of extraordinary adventure and education. The town of Churchill, on the shore of Hudson Bay in Manitoba, northern Canada, is a destination which I consider one of the photographic capitals of the world. This trip rewired my brain into thinking of ways to push my photography to the next level.I stayed at Lazy Bear Lodge in Churchill, which arranged a full itinerary. The tundra tour took us deep into the wilderness, where I saw attractions, such as the wrecks of the Miss Piggy, a 1979 freight plane, and the mysterious MV Ithaca. These subjects have disrupted the beauty of the Churchill countryside and can now be used to develop some creative images.The experienced guides from Lazy Bear Lodge made me feel like I was part of Canada\u2019s chronicle. I learned all about the town\u2019s colourful and tragic history. I followed in the footsteps of Sir John Franklin, the intrepid sailor who battled for years through treacherous seas and freak weather conditions in search of the Northwest Passage. On the water, I explored Hudson Bay, seeking out the polar bears frolicking in the rocks along the water\u2019s edge, and kayaked among the beluga whales which congregate in their thousands at the mouth of the Churchill river. As a scuba diver and underwater photographer, the highlight of my trip was to swim with beluga whales and photograph wildlife I would otherwise never have experienced, such as snowy owls and huskies.The trip gave my photography a new perspective and brought me experiences that will remain with me for a lifetime.\u2022 The prize, organised by the Canadian Tourism Commission, was a six-night trip to Churchill, Canada, on Lazy Bear Lodge\u2019s Ultimate Arctic Summer Adventure (lazybearlodge.com/tours). More information about holidays in Canada at keepexploring.ca\u2022 superjolly.com", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Travel photography", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel photography competition:  winners' trip to Canada"},{"date": "2014-11-24T10:16:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, from Katherine Stansfield\u2019s lively first collection, Playing House, has some of the restless vocal complexity of a Baroque fugue. A more obvious literary relative would be the sestina. In fact, Canada seems to adapt a few sestina-like techniques, while firmly announcing that, no, it\u2019s not a sestina, nor would wish to be. For a start, there are five rather than six-and-a-half stanzas, each with seven lines rather than six: the lines vary in length so, visually, the poem has an un-sestina-like rugged (mountainous?) outline. It sings more than most sestinas. But both fugue and sestina are forms constrained by fixed rules of repetition. Canada has multiple repetands, but no obvious symmetrical plot for their appearance (unless sharper ears than mine can discern one).The patterns flow and change. For example, some form of the verb, to run, appears in every stanza, in lines two, seven, five, one, six, whereas the forms of pine, which features both as noun (\u201cpines\u201d as in pine-trees) and verb (\u201cpining\u201d) appear in lines three, four, five, four, four. The first line of the first stanza comes back as the last, with a new grammatical twist \u2013 but that twist, involving a full-stop and a single word beginning a new sentence, stops short of becoming a repeated last-line device. The random element seems important, in keeping with the organic nature of the imagery. Words and meanings are at liberty to dissolve like snow, or maintain their shape for longer, like rock.One of the key-words, spool, and its derivations, perhaps best describes this fluid, cinematic process. Canada, the poem\u2019s addressee and imagined place, is recreated from deliberately stereotypical characteristics \u2013 pines, lakes, snow, etc \u2013 but not locked into definition. It\u2019s unmappable \u2013 a land both out there and inside the speaker. It spools away and is drawn back and around that consciousness. Although the observation \u201cno one comes\u201d is a major repeating motif, the speaker seems less an isolated figure than one whose being (head, hands, bones, heartbeats) is assimilated into and by the landscape: \u201cThe lakes are my hands/ running into the heart, into bone \u2026 \u201d The descriptive writing may border on the surreal, as here, or attain vivid metaphorical presence, as when \u201cwinter snows the lakes/ to rock\u201d or rock becomes \u201cthe bone of land\u201d. It\u2019s always unexpected, potent, and sparked by compression and juxtaposition.There are many subtle and enjoyable word-shifts. I like the compounds, \u201cLake//forest\u201d, \u201cbone-beaten\u201d and \u201csnow-muddy\u201d (a verb), and the use of \u201ckeep\u201d as a noun in the seventh line, stanza four. Passive and active voices of the verb (\u201csee\u201d, \u201cseen\u201d, \u201cbeat\u201d, \u201cbeaten\u201d) help merge place and poet. \u201cSpool\u201d becomes \u201cPool\u201d in the second line of the last stanza, where it might be the verb of a command, or a noun suggesting a pool reflecting heart, bones and hands. Dualism is a constant feature: blackness and snow, rock and muddiness, shadows and bones, land and lake, head and heart, stasis and flow.Canada is surely a love poem. The speaker declares strong emotions, and is concerned with charting them in a form that denotes obsession. As a troubadour-poet permits his mistress to set ice and fire at raging war inside him, Stansfield\u2019s persona is permissive, willing to be subjugated to the linguistic icons that mean \u201cCanada\u201d. Petrarch spooled tireless love poems to Laura, a woman he\u2019d apparently seen only once: the concept of inspiration by the unseen and unavailable is a deeply engrained tradition in western poetry. Here, \u201cI\u2019ve never seen you\u201d is a statement unpicked and disproven: the poem conjures a suspicion that literal \u201cnot-seeing\u201d may be crucial to imagination\u2019s inner sight. Not unlike Petrarch\u2019s Laura, Wordsworth\u2019s daffodils, flashing \u201cupon that inward eye\u201d, were not only re-seen. They were seen as if they could see the poet.The power of the transitive use of \u201cruns\u201d reinforces that thought. Canada \u201cruns\u201d the speakers heart in the beginning, \u201cbut not bone\u201d. At the end, Canada\u2019s forest \u201cruns\u201d the speaker\u2019s head, which is both bone and softer tissue. Perhaps the most important repeated motif, \u201cNo one comes\u201d, ends the poem on a note of bleakness. In a projected movement away from sensation and emotion, the idealised \u201cforest, shadowed muddy, black as winter\u201d finally, perhaps, begins to disappear.CanadaI\u2019ve never seen you.In my head you run from mein a spool: winter lakes pining for night,blackened snow, muddy as shadow.No one comes. In the heart of your forest I beatmy hands on rock, on the bone of landI\u2019ve never seen. Yourun the heart, but not bone.No one comes. The forest is blackand muddies rock. Shadows never beatmy head but in winter. I\u2019ve seen pines spoolingnight from your land like snow.The lakes are my handsrunning into the heart, into bonethough winter snows the lakesto rock. In the black forestheartbeats spool shadows. Do yousee? No one comes. Nightand the bones in the pines run muddy.My head is never a land insidethough winter snows. Lakeforest, keep runninginto the land shadowed by my head.You spool rock and bone-beaten hearts. I see pines snow-muddythe black of the lakes.No one comes. Never. Winteris the forest keep. Running,no one comes.Pool to see my heart, bones, hands,beaten by the land and the lakes and the rocksand the pines and the snow I\u2019ve never seen.At night, shadowed muddy, black as winter,your forest runs my head.No one comes.", "tags": ["Poetry", "Books"], "title": "Poem of the week: Canada by Katherine Stansfield"},{"date": "2014-11-17T01:26:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada \u2013 one of the few countries previously in line with Australia\u2019s opposition to the international Green Climate Fund \u2013 now appears to have changed its mind, with Tony Abbott\u2019s close friend prime minister Stephen Harper saying he is preparing to make a contribution.Abbott has defied global pressure to commit to the fund, designed to help poor countries adapt to climate change, because Australia is already spending $2.5bn on its domestic Direct Action fund and providing $10bn in capital to a so-called \u201cgreen bank\u201d \u2013 which he is trying to abolish.World leaders forced Australia to include stronger language about the Green Climate Fund in the G20 communique \u2013 and during the summit Barack Obama pledged the US would contribute $3bn to it and the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, offered $1.5bn. But soon after the conference was over Abbott indicated it would make no immediate difference to Australia\u2019s position.On Sunday Harper said Canada was preparing to make a contribution to the UN fund, the Globe and Mail and other Canadian media outlets reported. He did not nominate an amount.Last November, Abbott and Harper \u201cmade history\u201d by jointly dissenting from support for the Green Climate Fund in a communique from the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting.Speaking after a meeting on Sunday night with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, Abbott said Direct Action \u2013 which funds Australia\u2019s domestic emissions reduction, not international efforts \u2013 was already \u201cquite a substantial fund\u201d. He also cited the Clean Energy Finance Corporation, which he is committed to abolish.\u201cWe also have a Clean Energy Finance Corporation which was established by the former government and there is $10bn in capital which has been allocated to this,\u201d he said. \u201cIn addition to those two funds a proportion of our overseas aid, particularly in the Pacific, is allocated for various environmental schemes including schemes to deal with climate change. So, we are doing a very great deal and I suppose given what we are doing we don\u2019t intend, at this time, to do more.\u201dEnvironment minister Greg Hunt tried to compare Obama\u2019s $3bn commitment to the international fund to be spent in poor countries with Australia\u2019s $2.5bn spending on its own domestic policy, saying that if the Direct Action fund was implemented in the US \u201con a like for like basis it would be the equivalent of a $25bn fund\u201d.Neither Abbott nor Hunt ruled out making a contribution to the fund at some time in the future and it is understood the Department of Foreign Affairs, which leads Australia\u2019s international climate negotiations, has been considering a donation. The fund is seen as a critical part of a successful outcome at the United Nations Paris conference next year, which will discuss a global emissions pact to take effect after 2020.But Abbott\u2019s trenchant opposition to the fund is seen as an impediment to any contribution. He has publicly disparaged it as an international \u201cBob Brown bank\u201d \u2013 another reference to the CEFC, which he wants to abolish but he also cites as evidence of Australia\u2019s climate action.As revealed by Guardian Australia, Abbott told world leaders at the Brisbane summit that as the leader of a major coal producer he would be \u201cstanding up for coal\u201d.The communique references demanded by other leaders, including Obama, were reluctantly accepted by Australia at the last minute. They included a call for contributions to the fund and for the \u201cphasing out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies\u201d.An EU spokesman reportedly described the climate negotiations with Australia as being like \u201ctrench warfare\u201d. Other officials said it had been \u201cvery difficult\u201d and protracted.Speaking to the media after the summit, Abbott downplayed the importance of the fund. He took a similar line on the greenhouse reduction pledges unveiled by Obama and the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, immediately before the summit.He said all nations \u201csupport strong action \u2026 to address climate change\u201d, but added: \u201cWe are all going to approach this in our own way and there are a range of [climate] funds which are there.\u201dObama and the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, both urged G20 countries to contribute to the Green Climate Fund. In the end, at Australia\u2019s insistence, the communique called for contributions to financing funds \u201csuch as the Green Climate Fund\u201d.Hunt suggested a regional rainforest fund, to which Australia recently pledged $6m, could substitute for contributions to the Green Climate Fund.", "tags": ["Climate change", "G20 Brisbane 2014", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Tony Abbott", "Coal", "Coalition", "Australia news", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "G20", "Australian politics", "Ban Ki-moon", "Greg Hunt", "Shinzo Abe", "Brisbane"], "title": "Canada breaks with Australia to contribute to Green Climate Fund"},{"date": "2014-10-23T19:56:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government indicated on Thursday that it intends to speed up proposals to toughen the country\u2019s anti-terror laws in the wake of the attack on parliament in Ottawa, including a measure that would allow \u201cpreventative detention\u201d.As the House of Commons opened to rapturous applause for the sergeant-at-arms, the ceremonial security chief who prevented further tragedy by apparently killing the perpetrator of Wednesday\u2019s brazen assault, prime minister Stephen Harper indicated that his government was resolved to toughen the country\u2019s security legislation.The governing Conservatives have made no secret of their plan to install new anti-terror powers, giving the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) more powers to track, investigative and detain would-be homegrown terrorists. Harper promised the proposals would be brought forward.\u201cThey need to be much strengthened, and I assure you, Mr Speaker, that work which is already under way will be expedited,\u201d Mr Harper said.Details of those new powers have yet to be released, but justice minister Peter MacKay indicated to reporters that they will include measures to allow the preventive detention of suspected would-be terrorists.\u201cWe\u2019re examining all those sections of the criminal code, and all measures under the law that will allow us, in some instances, to take pre-emptive measures,\u201d he said.When asked about the schedule for the new legislation, government House leader\u200e Peter Van Loan refused to say exactly when a bill would come forward, acknowledging only that Wednesday\u2019s events had changed the context. A security bill, was originally due to be tabled on Wednesday morning.The Harper government contends that Canada\u2019s security agencies, tasked with thwarting attacks, are demanding greater powers, arguing that the current arrangements for judicial oversight hampers their ability to deal with imminent threats.But despite the cross-party show of unity and defiance on Thursday, opposition parties are warning that the government, in the wake of the Ottawa attack, is rushing to adopt expansive new spying powers without considering the consequences.The leader of the official opposition party, the New Democrats, Thomas Mulcair, said that one act of terrorism should not bend the Canadian way, nor should it even hamper the weekly yoga class that takes place on the front lawn of Parliament \u2013 a symbol, he said, of the openness of the Canadian legislature.\u201cWe cannot allow that openness and freedom to be rolled back either,\u201d he said.The Liberal party leader, Justin Trudeau, said those who attack Canada \u201cwill not make the rules about this land we share and they will not get to change us\u201d.Harper acknowledged the strain that Wednesday\u2019s events put on the capital, calling it \u201cbeyond and above anything that any of us are really expecting to face\u201d.But amid the determination and effort to return to normality, there was tight security in the downtown area \u2013 unusual for Ottawa. A security permitter around Parliament Hill meant that only a small number of staffers, parliamentarians and journalists were permitted through, and only at one checkpoint. Cordoned-off streets meant a headache for commuters.Despite the contentious debate on how to respond to the threat of domestic terrorism, the political parties were unified in their tribute to the sergeant-at-arms, Kevin Vickers, who was given a prolonged standing ovation at the opening of the parliamentary session.But Vickers was keen to praise his colleagues. \u201cDuring extraordinary circumstances, security personnel demonstrated professionalism and courage,\u201d he said in a statement. \u201cI am grateful and proud to be part of this team.\u201dReports emerged on Thursday that Vickers, after killing the shooter, rushed to a nearby room, where the Harper was meeting with his caucus, to ensure the prime minister\u2019s security.", "tags": ["Canada", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Gun crime", "Americas"], "title": "Canada considers 'preventative detention' in wake of Ottawa attack"},{"date": "2014-10-23T05:40:36Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Australian political leaders have said they stand \u201cshoulder to shoulder with our Canadian comrades in defiance and resolution\u201d after a gunman\u2019s attack on a soldier and on the parliament in Ottawa.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, described the infiltration of the Canadian legislature as \u201can affront to this parliament, too\u201d and the opposition leader, Bill Shorten, reaffirmed his intention to give bipartisan support to the Australian government\u2019s counter-terrorism laws.Australian authorities are reviewing security measures at public buildings, including Parliament House, and military sites after the dramatic events in the Canadian capital on Wednesday. A soldier guarding the Canadian war memorial in Ottawa was shot dead and a gunman then stormed the nearby parliament before being killed by a parliamentary official.Abbott and Shorten expressed solidarity with Canada at the beginning of question time on Thursday, with the Canadian high commissioner to Australia in attendance.Australians, the prime minister said, felt Canada\u2019s \u201cshock, pain and anger\u201d.\u201cI have been in their parliament, I have been at their war memorial. So many of us have,\u201d Abbott said.\u201cI regard Stephen Harper, their prime minister, as a friend and almost a brother. So an attack on their parliament is an affront to this parliament, too.\u201cToday, we stand shoulder to shoulder with our Canadian comrades in defiance and resolution. We stand for freedom and for the right of all people in all places to choose their way of life and their way of worship. We always have, and we always will.\u201dAbbott said the events were a reminder that \u201cthe terrorist threat to our people, our institutions and to our way of life\u201d was real.He noted that Canada and Australia both had to confront the problem of some of their citizens travelling to Iraq and Syria to join groups such as Islamic State (Isis). Shorten said his thoughts were with the family of Corporal Nathan Cirillo, the Canadian army reservist killed while standing watch at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, and for the parliamentary guard recovering in hospital.\u201cThe footage that has rolled across our television screens today captures something of the fear and confusion that gripped all of the innocent people in the Canadian parliament and those paying their respects at the Canadian war memorial,\u201d Shorten said.Shorten said Australians would feel affected by the events \u201cbut today should not be cause for fear\u201d. He said Australia\u2019s parliament, war memorial and public buildings must remain open to the public because they belonged to the people.The justice minister, Michael Keenan, said authorities had increased security, including the decision six weeks ago to deploy armed police officers inside and outside Parliament House and improve tactical response capabilities.The foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, said when she contacted the Canadian foreign affairs minister, John Baird, early on Thursday, he said he had been just metres from the gunman, and was still barricaded within the parliament building.Bishop said Canada, like Australia, was part of the international coalition fighting against Isis in Iraq. \u201cThe chilling video of a young 17-year-old Australian threatening his country as he takes up arms with [Isis] shows that we must take immediate steps, a strong response to counter this threat.\u201dBishop said she had cancelled about 70 Australian passports on the grounds that the holder posed a security risk. She said forthcoming legislation would allow her to suspend passports.The government\u2019s second stage of national security changes, known as the foreign fighters bill, is scheduled for parliamentary debate and a vote next week.Labor appears likely to support the bill, having voted last month in favour of the government\u2019s previous bill expanding security agency powers and criminalising disclosure of special intelligence operations.Shorten said on Thursday: \u201cWhen it comes to fighting terrorism, we are in this together. It is important that we have a bipartisan approach \u2013 we have and we do.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Bill Shorten", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Ottawa shooting: Australian leaders 'shoulder to shoulder' with Canada"},{"date": "2014-12-27T07:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Every wayfarer instinctively understands that travel can take them to a wonderful world of extraordinary adventure and education. The town of Churchill, on the shore of Hudson Bay in Manitoba, northern Canada, is a destination which I consider one of the photographic capitals of the world. This trip rewired my brain into thinking of ways to push my photography to the next level.I stayed at Lazy Bear Lodge in Churchill, which arranged a full itinerary. The tundra tour took us deep into the wilderness, where I saw attractions, such as the wrecks of the Miss Piggy, a 1979 freight plane, and the mysterious MV Ithaca. These subjects have disrupted the beauty of the Churchill countryside and can now be used to develop some creative images.The experienced guides from Lazy Bear Lodge made me feel like I was part of Canada\u2019s chronicle. I learned all about the town\u2019s colourful and tragic history. I followed in the footsteps of Sir John Franklin, the intrepid sailor who battled for years through treacherous seas and freak weather conditions in search of the Northwest Passage. On the water, I explored Hudson Bay, seeking out the polar bears frolicking in the rocks along the water\u2019s edge, and kayaked among the beluga whales which congregate in their thousands at the mouth of the Churchill river. As a scuba diver and underwater photographer, the highlight of my trip was to swim with beluga whales and photograph wildlife I would otherwise never have experienced, such as snowy owls and huskies.The trip gave my photography a new perspective and brought me experiences that will remain with me for a lifetime.\u2022 The prize, organised by the Canadian Tourism Commission, was a six-night trip to Churchill, Canada, on Lazy Bear Lodge\u2019s Ultimate Arctic Summer Adventure (lazybearlodge.com/tours). More information about holidays in Canada at keepexploring.ca\u2022 superjolly.com", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Travel photography", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel photography competition:  winners' trip to Canada"},{"date": "2014-11-24T10:16:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, from Katherine Stansfield\u2019s lively first collection, Playing House, has some of the restless vocal complexity of a Baroque fugue. A more obvious literary relative would be the sestina. In fact, Canada seems to adapt a few sestina-like techniques, while firmly announcing that, no, it\u2019s not a sestina, nor would wish to be. For a start, there are five rather than six-and-a-half stanzas, each with seven lines rather than six: the lines vary in length so, visually, the poem has an un-sestina-like rugged (mountainous?) outline. It sings more than most sestinas. But both fugue and sestina are forms constrained by fixed rules of repetition. Canada has multiple repetands, but no obvious symmetrical plot for their appearance (unless sharper ears than mine can discern one).The patterns flow and change. For example, some form of the verb, to run, appears in every stanza, in lines two, seven, five, one, six, whereas the forms of pine, which features both as noun (\u201cpines\u201d as in pine-trees) and verb (\u201cpining\u201d) appear in lines three, four, five, four, four. The first line of the first stanza comes back as the last, with a new grammatical twist \u2013 but that twist, involving a full-stop and a single word beginning a new sentence, stops short of becoming a repeated last-line device. The random element seems important, in keeping with the organic nature of the imagery. Words and meanings are at liberty to dissolve like snow, or maintain their shape for longer, like rock.One of the key-words, spool, and its derivations, perhaps best describes this fluid, cinematic process. Canada, the poem\u2019s addressee and imagined place, is recreated from deliberately stereotypical characteristics \u2013 pines, lakes, snow, etc \u2013 but not locked into definition. It\u2019s unmappable \u2013 a land both out there and inside the speaker. It spools away and is drawn back and around that consciousness. Although the observation \u201cno one comes\u201d is a major repeating motif, the speaker seems less an isolated figure than one whose being (head, hands, bones, heartbeats) is assimilated into and by the landscape: \u201cThe lakes are my hands/ running into the heart, into bone \u2026 \u201d The descriptive writing may border on the surreal, as here, or attain vivid metaphorical presence, as when \u201cwinter snows the lakes/ to rock\u201d or rock becomes \u201cthe bone of land\u201d. It\u2019s always unexpected, potent, and sparked by compression and juxtaposition.There are many subtle and enjoyable word-shifts. I like the compounds, \u201cLake//forest\u201d, \u201cbone-beaten\u201d and \u201csnow-muddy\u201d (a verb), and the use of \u201ckeep\u201d as a noun in the seventh line, stanza four. Passive and active voices of the verb (\u201csee\u201d, \u201cseen\u201d, \u201cbeat\u201d, \u201cbeaten\u201d) help merge place and poet. \u201cSpool\u201d becomes \u201cPool\u201d in the second line of the last stanza, where it might be the verb of a command, or a noun suggesting a pool reflecting heart, bones and hands. Dualism is a constant feature: blackness and snow, rock and muddiness, shadows and bones, land and lake, head and heart, stasis and flow.Canada is surely a love poem. The speaker declares strong emotions, and is concerned with charting them in a form that denotes obsession. As a troubadour-poet permits his mistress to set ice and fire at raging war inside him, Stansfield\u2019s persona is permissive, willing to be subjugated to the linguistic icons that mean \u201cCanada\u201d. Petrarch spooled tireless love poems to Laura, a woman he\u2019d apparently seen only once: the concept of inspiration by the unseen and unavailable is a deeply engrained tradition in western poetry. Here, \u201cI\u2019ve never seen you\u201d is a statement unpicked and disproven: the poem conjures a suspicion that literal \u201cnot-seeing\u201d may be crucial to imagination\u2019s inner sight. Not unlike Petrarch\u2019s Laura, Wordsworth\u2019s daffodils, flashing \u201cupon that inward eye\u201d, were not only re-seen. They were seen as if they could see the poet.The power of the transitive use of \u201cruns\u201d reinforces that thought. Canada \u201cruns\u201d the speakers heart in the beginning, \u201cbut not bone\u201d. At the end, Canada\u2019s forest \u201cruns\u201d the speaker\u2019s head, which is both bone and softer tissue. Perhaps the most important repeated motif, \u201cNo one comes\u201d, ends the poem on a note of bleakness. In a projected movement away from sensation and emotion, the idealised \u201cforest, shadowed muddy, black as winter\u201d finally, perhaps, begins to disappear.CanadaI\u2019ve never seen you.In my head you run from mein a spool: winter lakes pining for night,blackened snow, muddy as shadow.No one comes. In the heart of your forest I beatmy hands on rock, on the bone of landI\u2019ve never seen. Yourun the heart, but not bone.No one comes. The forest is blackand muddies rock. Shadows never beatmy head but in winter. I\u2019ve seen pines spoolingnight from your land like snow.The lakes are my handsrunning into the heart, into bonethough winter snows the lakesto rock. In the black forestheartbeats spool shadows. Do yousee? No one comes. Nightand the bones in the pines run muddy.My head is never a land insidethough winter snows. Lakeforest, keep runninginto the land shadowed by my head.You spool rock and bone-beaten hearts. I see pines snow-muddythe black of the lakes.No one comes. Never. Winteris the forest keep. Running,no one comes.Pool to see my heart, bones, hands,beaten by the land and the lakes and the rocksand the pines and the snow I\u2019ve never seen.At night, shadowed muddy, black as winter,your forest runs my head.No one comes.", "tags": ["Poetry", "Books"], "title": "Poem of the week: Canada by Katherine Stansfield"},{"date": "2014-11-17T01:26:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada \u2013 one of the few countries previously in line with Australia\u2019s opposition to the international Green Climate Fund \u2013 now appears to have changed its mind, with Tony Abbott\u2019s close friend prime minister Stephen Harper saying he is preparing to make a contribution.Abbott has defied global pressure to commit to the fund, designed to help poor countries adapt to climate change, because Australia is already spending $2.5bn on its domestic Direct Action fund and providing $10bn in capital to a so-called \u201cgreen bank\u201d \u2013 which he is trying to abolish.World leaders forced Australia to include stronger language about the Green Climate Fund in the G20 communique \u2013 and during the summit Barack Obama pledged the US would contribute $3bn to it and the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, offered $1.5bn. But soon after the conference was over Abbott indicated it would make no immediate difference to Australia\u2019s position.On Sunday Harper said Canada was preparing to make a contribution to the UN fund, the Globe and Mail and other Canadian media outlets reported. He did not nominate an amount.Last November, Abbott and Harper \u201cmade history\u201d by jointly dissenting from support for the Green Climate Fund in a communique from the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting.Speaking after a meeting on Sunday night with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, Abbott said Direct Action \u2013 which funds Australia\u2019s domestic emissions reduction, not international efforts \u2013 was already \u201cquite a substantial fund\u201d. He also cited the Clean Energy Finance Corporation, which he is committed to abolish.\u201cWe also have a Clean Energy Finance Corporation which was established by the former government and there is $10bn in capital which has been allocated to this,\u201d he said. \u201cIn addition to those two funds a proportion of our overseas aid, particularly in the Pacific, is allocated for various environmental schemes including schemes to deal with climate change. So, we are doing a very great deal and I suppose given what we are doing we don\u2019t intend, at this time, to do more.\u201dEnvironment minister Greg Hunt tried to compare Obama\u2019s $3bn commitment to the international fund to be spent in poor countries with Australia\u2019s $2.5bn spending on its own domestic policy, saying that if the Direct Action fund was implemented in the US \u201con a like for like basis it would be the equivalent of a $25bn fund\u201d.Neither Abbott nor Hunt ruled out making a contribution to the fund at some time in the future and it is understood the Department of Foreign Affairs, which leads Australia\u2019s international climate negotiations, has been considering a donation. The fund is seen as a critical part of a successful outcome at the United Nations Paris conference next year, which will discuss a global emissions pact to take effect after 2020.But Abbott\u2019s trenchant opposition to the fund is seen as an impediment to any contribution. He has publicly disparaged it as an international \u201cBob Brown bank\u201d \u2013 another reference to the CEFC, which he wants to abolish but he also cites as evidence of Australia\u2019s climate action.As revealed by Guardian Australia, Abbott told world leaders at the Brisbane summit that as the leader of a major coal producer he would be \u201cstanding up for coal\u201d.The communique references demanded by other leaders, including Obama, were reluctantly accepted by Australia at the last minute. They included a call for contributions to the fund and for the \u201cphasing out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies\u201d.An EU spokesman reportedly described the climate negotiations with Australia as being like \u201ctrench warfare\u201d. Other officials said it had been \u201cvery difficult\u201d and protracted.Speaking to the media after the summit, Abbott downplayed the importance of the fund. He took a similar line on the greenhouse reduction pledges unveiled by Obama and the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, immediately before the summit.He said all nations \u201csupport strong action \u2026 to address climate change\u201d, but added: \u201cWe are all going to approach this in our own way and there are a range of [climate] funds which are there.\u201dObama and the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, both urged G20 countries to contribute to the Green Climate Fund. In the end, at Australia\u2019s insistence, the communique called for contributions to financing funds \u201csuch as the Green Climate Fund\u201d.Hunt suggested a regional rainforest fund, to which Australia recently pledged $6m, could substitute for contributions to the Green Climate Fund.", "tags": ["Climate change", "G20 Brisbane 2014", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Tony Abbott", "Coal", "Coalition", "Australia news", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "G20", "Australian politics", "Ban Ki-moon", "Greg Hunt", "Shinzo Abe", "Brisbane"], "title": "Canada breaks with Australia to contribute to Green Climate Fund"},{"date": "2014-10-23T19:56:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government indicated on Thursday that it intends to speed up proposals to toughen the country\u2019s anti-terror laws in the wake of the attack on parliament in Ottawa, including a measure that would allow \u201cpreventative detention\u201d.As the House of Commons opened to rapturous applause for the sergeant-at-arms, the ceremonial security chief who prevented further tragedy by apparently killing the perpetrator of Wednesday\u2019s brazen assault, prime minister Stephen Harper indicated that his government was resolved to toughen the country\u2019s security legislation.The governing Conservatives have made no secret of their plan to install new anti-terror powers, giving the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) more powers to track, investigative and detain would-be homegrown terrorists. Harper promised the proposals would be brought forward.\u201cThey need to be much strengthened, and I assure you, Mr Speaker, that work which is already under way will be expedited,\u201d Mr Harper said.Details of those new powers have yet to be released, but justice minister Peter MacKay indicated to reporters that they will include measures to allow the preventive detention of suspected would-be terrorists.\u201cWe\u2019re examining all those sections of the criminal code, and all measures under the law that will allow us, in some instances, to take pre-emptive measures,\u201d he said.When asked about the schedule for the new legislation, government House leader\u200e Peter Van Loan refused to say exactly when a bill would come forward, acknowledging only that Wednesday\u2019s events had changed the context. A security bill, was originally due to be tabled on Wednesday morning.The Harper government contends that Canada\u2019s security agencies, tasked with thwarting attacks, are demanding greater powers, arguing that the current arrangements for judicial oversight hampers their ability to deal with imminent threats.But despite the cross-party show of unity and defiance on Thursday, opposition parties are warning that the government, in the wake of the Ottawa attack, is rushing to adopt expansive new spying powers without considering the consequences.The leader of the official opposition party, the New Democrats, Thomas Mulcair, said that one act of terrorism should not bend the Canadian way, nor should it even hamper the weekly yoga class that takes place on the front lawn of Parliament \u2013 a symbol, he said, of the openness of the Canadian legislature.\u201cWe cannot allow that openness and freedom to be rolled back either,\u201d he said.The Liberal party leader, Justin Trudeau, said those who attack Canada \u201cwill not make the rules about this land we share and they will not get to change us\u201d.Harper acknowledged the strain that Wednesday\u2019s events put on the capital, calling it \u201cbeyond and above anything that any of us are really expecting to face\u201d.But amid the determination and effort to return to normality, there was tight security in the downtown area \u2013 unusual for Ottawa. A security permitter around Parliament Hill meant that only a small number of staffers, parliamentarians and journalists were permitted through, and only at one checkpoint. Cordoned-off streets meant a headache for commuters.Despite the contentious debate on how to respond to the threat of domestic terrorism, the political parties were unified in their tribute to the sergeant-at-arms, Kevin Vickers, who was given a prolonged standing ovation at the opening of the parliamentary session.But Vickers was keen to praise his colleagues. \u201cDuring extraordinary circumstances, security personnel demonstrated professionalism and courage,\u201d he said in a statement. \u201cI am grateful and proud to be part of this team.\u201dReports emerged on Thursday that Vickers, after killing the shooter, rushed to a nearby room, where the Harper was meeting with his caucus, to ensure the prime minister\u2019s security.", "tags": ["Canada", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Gun crime", "Americas"], "title": "Canada considers 'preventative detention' in wake of Ottawa attack"},{"date": "2014-10-23T05:40:36Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Australian political leaders have said they stand \u201cshoulder to shoulder with our Canadian comrades in defiance and resolution\u201d after a gunman\u2019s attack on a soldier and on the parliament in Ottawa.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, described the infiltration of the Canadian legislature as \u201can affront to this parliament, too\u201d and the opposition leader, Bill Shorten, reaffirmed his intention to give bipartisan support to the Australian government\u2019s counter-terrorism laws.Australian authorities are reviewing security measures at public buildings, including Parliament House, and military sites after the dramatic events in the Canadian capital on Wednesday. A soldier guarding the Canadian war memorial in Ottawa was shot dead and a gunman then stormed the nearby parliament before being killed by a parliamentary official.Abbott and Shorten expressed solidarity with Canada at the beginning of question time on Thursday, with the Canadian high commissioner to Australia in attendance.Australians, the prime minister said, felt Canada\u2019s \u201cshock, pain and anger\u201d.\u201cI have been in their parliament, I have been at their war memorial. So many of us have,\u201d Abbott said.\u201cI regard Stephen Harper, their prime minister, as a friend and almost a brother. So an attack on their parliament is an affront to this parliament, too.\u201cToday, we stand shoulder to shoulder with our Canadian comrades in defiance and resolution. We stand for freedom and for the right of all people in all places to choose their way of life and their way of worship. We always have, and we always will.\u201dAbbott said the events were a reminder that \u201cthe terrorist threat to our people, our institutions and to our way of life\u201d was real.He noted that Canada and Australia both had to confront the problem of some of their citizens travelling to Iraq and Syria to join groups such as Islamic State (Isis). Shorten said his thoughts were with the family of Corporal Nathan Cirillo, the Canadian army reservist killed while standing watch at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, and for the parliamentary guard recovering in hospital.\u201cThe footage that has rolled across our television screens today captures something of the fear and confusion that gripped all of the innocent people in the Canadian parliament and those paying their respects at the Canadian war memorial,\u201d Shorten said.Shorten said Australians would feel affected by the events \u201cbut today should not be cause for fear\u201d. He said Australia\u2019s parliament, war memorial and public buildings must remain open to the public because they belonged to the people.The justice minister, Michael Keenan, said authorities had increased security, including the decision six weeks ago to deploy armed police officers inside and outside Parliament House and improve tactical response capabilities.The foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, said when she contacted the Canadian foreign affairs minister, John Baird, early on Thursday, he said he had been just metres from the gunman, and was still barricaded within the parliament building.Bishop said Canada, like Australia, was part of the international coalition fighting against Isis in Iraq. \u201cThe chilling video of a young 17-year-old Australian threatening his country as he takes up arms with [Isis] shows that we must take immediate steps, a strong response to counter this threat.\u201dBishop said she had cancelled about 70 Australian passports on the grounds that the holder posed a security risk. She said forthcoming legislation would allow her to suspend passports.The government\u2019s second stage of national security changes, known as the foreign fighters bill, is scheduled for parliamentary debate and a vote next week.Labor appears likely to support the bill, having voted last month in favour of the government\u2019s previous bill expanding security agency powers and criminalising disclosure of special intelligence operations.Shorten said on Thursday: \u201cWhen it comes to fighting terrorism, we are in this together. It is important that we have a bipartisan approach \u2013 we have and we do.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Bill Shorten", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Ottawa shooting: Australian leaders 'shoulder to shoulder' with Canada"},{"date": "2014-10-21T13:27:45Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The unrest is palpable. In First Nations across Canada, word is spreading of a historic court ruling recognizing Indigenous land rights. And the murmurs are turning to action: an eviction notice issued to a railway company in British Columbia; a park occupied in Vancouver; lawsuits launched against the Enbridge tar sands pipeline; a government deal reconsidered by Ontario Algonquins; and sovereignty declared by the Atikamekw in Quebec.These First Nations have been emboldened by this summer\u2019s Supreme Court of Canada William decision, which recognized the aboriginal title of the Tsilhqot\u2019in nation to 1,750 sq km of their land in central British Columbia \u2013 not outright ownership, but the right to use and manage the land and to reap its economic benefits.The ruling affects all \u201cunceded\u201d territory in Canada \u2013 those lands never signed away through a treaty or conquered by war. Which means that over an enormous land mass \u2013 most of British Columbia, large parts of Quebec and Atlantic Canada, and a number of other spots \u2013 a new legal landscape is emerging that offers the prospect of much more responsible land stewardship.First Nations are starting to act accordingly, and none more so than the Tsilhqot\u2019in. They\u2019ve declared a tribal park over a swath of their territory. And they\u2019ve announced their own policy on mining \u2013 a vision that leaves room for its possibility, but on much more strict environmental terms. Earlier this month they erected a totem pole to overlook a sacred area where copper and gold miner Taseko has for years been controversially attempting to establish itself; no mine will ever be built there.And the Canadian government\u2019s response? Far from embracing these newly recognised indigenous land rights, they are trying to accelerate their elimination. The court has definitively told Canada to accept the reality of aboriginal title: the government is doing everything in its power to deny it.Canadians can be pardoned for believing that when the country\u2019s highest court renders a decision, the government clicks their heels and sets themselves to implementing it. The judiciary directs, the executive branch follows: that\u2019s how we\u2019re taught it works. But it doesn\u2019t always \u2013 and especially not when what\u2019s at stake is the land at the heart of Canada\u2019s resource extraction.The new land rights ruling is now clashing directly with the Canadian government\u2019s method for cementing their grip on land and resources. It\u2019s a negotiating policy whose name \u2013 the so-called Comprehensive Land Claims \u2013 is intended to make your eyes glaze over. But its bureaucratic clothing disguises the government\u2019s naked ambition: to grab as much of indigenous peoples\u2019 land as possible.This is what dispossession by negotiation looks like. The government demands that First Nations trade away \u2013 or in the original term, to \u201cextinguish\u201d \u2013 their rights to 95% of their traditional territory. Their return is some money and small parcels of land, but insidiously, as private property, instead of in the collective way that indigenous peoples have long held and stewarded it. And First Nations need to provide costly, exhaustive proof of their rights to their own land, for which they have amassed a stunning $700 million in debt \u2013 a debt the government doesn\u2019t think twice about using to arm-twist.Despite the pressure, most First Nations have not yet signed their names to these crooked deals \u2013 especially when the supreme court is simultaneously directing the government to reconcile with First Nations and share the land. But the supreme court\u2019s confirmation that this approach is unconstitutional and illegal matters little to the government. What enables them to flout their own legal system is that Canadians remain scarcely aware of it.Acting without public scrutiny, prime minister Stephen Harper is trying to shore up support for this policy \u2013 now 40 years old \u2013 to finally secure the elimination of indigenous land rights. The process is led by the same man, Douglas Eyford, who has been Harper\u2019s advisor on getting tar sands pipelines and energy projects built in western Canada. That is no coincidence. The government is growing more desperate to remove the biggest obstacle that stands in the way of a corporate bonanza for dirty fossil fuels: the unceded aboriginal title of First Nations \u2013 backed now by the supreme court of Canada.A public commenting period opened during the government\u2019s pr blitz has created an opportunity for the indigenous rights movement and concerned Canadians to demand a long-overdue change in the government\u2019s behaviour. Recognising aboriginal title, restoring lands to First Nations management, would be to embrace the diversity and vision we desperately need in this moment of ecological and economic crisis.Because the government agenda is not just about extinguishing indigenous land rights. It\u2019s about extinguishing another way of seeing the world. About extinguishing economic models that prize interdependence with the living world, that recognise prosperity isn\u2019t secured by the endless depletion of resources. And about extinguishing a love for the land, a love rooted in the unique boundaries and beauty of a place.\u201cThe land is the most important thing,\u201d Tsilhqot\u2019in chief Roger William told me. \u201cOur songs, our place names, our history, our stories \u2013 they come from the land that we are a part of. All of it is interrelated with who we are.\u201dThe few days I spent in Tsilhqot\u2019in territory five years ago made that vivid. It is a land of snow-capped mountains \u2013 Ts\u2019il-os, who in their stories was a man transformed into giant rock after separating from his wife. Wild horses stalk the valleys. Salmon smoke on drying racks. The Tsilhqot\u2019in carefully protect and nurture these fish \u2013 running stronger in their rivers than anywhere else in the province.That\u2019s why the habit of government officials, of media and even of supreme court judges to call the Tsilhqoti\u2019in \u201cnomadic\u201d bothers William so much: his people have lived on these lands for thousands of years, while it is non-natives who are constantly moving and resettling. And what could be more nomadic and transient than the extractive industry itself \u2013 grabbing what resources and profits it can before abandoning one area for another.As Canadians look more closely, they are discovering that the unceded status of vast territories across this country is not a threat, as they\u2019ve long been told. It is a tremendous gift, protected with love by indigenous nations over generations, to be seized for the possibilities it now offers for governing the land in a radically more just and sustainable way for everyone.In this battle between the love of the land and a drive for its destruction, those behind the extractive economy have everything to lose and indigenous peoples everything to win. The rest of us, depending on our stand, have a transformed country to gain.@Martin_Lukacs", "tags": ["Environment", "Land rights", "Indigenous peoples", "Fossil fuels", "Canada", "Law"], "title": "The indigenous land rights ruling that could transform Canada  | Martin Lukacs"},{"date": "2014-12-27T07:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Every wayfarer instinctively understands that travel can take them to a wonderful world of extraordinary adventure and education. The town of Churchill, on the shore of Hudson Bay in Manitoba, northern Canada, is a destination which I consider one of the photographic capitals of the world. This trip rewired my brain into thinking of ways to push my photography to the next level.I stayed at Lazy Bear Lodge in Churchill, which arranged a full itinerary. The tundra tour took us deep into the wilderness, where I saw attractions, such as the wrecks of the Miss Piggy, a 1979 freight plane, and the mysterious MV Ithaca. These subjects have disrupted the beauty of the Churchill countryside and can now be used to develop some creative images.The experienced guides from Lazy Bear Lodge made me feel like I was part of Canada\u2019s chronicle. I learned all about the town\u2019s colourful and tragic history. I followed in the footsteps of Sir John Franklin, the intrepid sailor who battled for years through treacherous seas and freak weather conditions in search of the Northwest Passage. On the water, I explored Hudson Bay, seeking out the polar bears frolicking in the rocks along the water\u2019s edge, and kayaked among the beluga whales which congregate in their thousands at the mouth of the Churchill river. As a scuba diver and underwater photographer, the highlight of my trip was to swim with beluga whales and photograph wildlife I would otherwise never have experienced, such as snowy owls and huskies.The trip gave my photography a new perspective and brought me experiences that will remain with me for a lifetime.\u2022 The prize, organised by the Canadian Tourism Commission, was a six-night trip to Churchill, Canada, on Lazy Bear Lodge\u2019s Ultimate Arctic Summer Adventure (lazybearlodge.com/tours). More information about holidays in Canada at keepexploring.ca\u2022 superjolly.com", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Travel photography", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel photography competition:  winners' trip to Canada"},{"date": "2014-11-24T10:16:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, from Katherine Stansfield\u2019s lively first collection, Playing House, has some of the restless vocal complexity of a Baroque fugue. A more obvious literary relative would be the sestina. In fact, Canada seems to adapt a few sestina-like techniques, while firmly announcing that, no, it\u2019s not a sestina, nor would wish to be. For a start, there are five rather than six-and-a-half stanzas, each with seven lines rather than six: the lines vary in length so, visually, the poem has an un-sestina-like rugged (mountainous?) outline. It sings more than most sestinas. But both fugue and sestina are forms constrained by fixed rules of repetition. Canada has multiple repetands, but no obvious symmetrical plot for their appearance (unless sharper ears than mine can discern one).The patterns flow and change. For example, some form of the verb, to run, appears in every stanza, in lines two, seven, five, one, six, whereas the forms of pine, which features both as noun (\u201cpines\u201d as in pine-trees) and verb (\u201cpining\u201d) appear in lines three, four, five, four, four. The first line of the first stanza comes back as the last, with a new grammatical twist \u2013 but that twist, involving a full-stop and a single word beginning a new sentence, stops short of becoming a repeated last-line device. The random element seems important, in keeping with the organic nature of the imagery. Words and meanings are at liberty to dissolve like snow, or maintain their shape for longer, like rock.One of the key-words, spool, and its derivations, perhaps best describes this fluid, cinematic process. Canada, the poem\u2019s addressee and imagined place, is recreated from deliberately stereotypical characteristics \u2013 pines, lakes, snow, etc \u2013 but not locked into definition. It\u2019s unmappable \u2013 a land both out there and inside the speaker. It spools away and is drawn back and around that consciousness. Although the observation \u201cno one comes\u201d is a major repeating motif, the speaker seems less an isolated figure than one whose being (head, hands, bones, heartbeats) is assimilated into and by the landscape: \u201cThe lakes are my hands/ running into the heart, into bone \u2026 \u201d The descriptive writing may border on the surreal, as here, or attain vivid metaphorical presence, as when \u201cwinter snows the lakes/ to rock\u201d or rock becomes \u201cthe bone of land\u201d. It\u2019s always unexpected, potent, and sparked by compression and juxtaposition.There are many subtle and enjoyable word-shifts. I like the compounds, \u201cLake//forest\u201d, \u201cbone-beaten\u201d and \u201csnow-muddy\u201d (a verb), and the use of \u201ckeep\u201d as a noun in the seventh line, stanza four. Passive and active voices of the verb (\u201csee\u201d, \u201cseen\u201d, \u201cbeat\u201d, \u201cbeaten\u201d) help merge place and poet. \u201cSpool\u201d becomes \u201cPool\u201d in the second line of the last stanza, where it might be the verb of a command, or a noun suggesting a pool reflecting heart, bones and hands. Dualism is a constant feature: blackness and snow, rock and muddiness, shadows and bones, land and lake, head and heart, stasis and flow.Canada is surely a love poem. The speaker declares strong emotions, and is concerned with charting them in a form that denotes obsession. As a troubadour-poet permits his mistress to set ice and fire at raging war inside him, Stansfield\u2019s persona is permissive, willing to be subjugated to the linguistic icons that mean \u201cCanada\u201d. Petrarch spooled tireless love poems to Laura, a woman he\u2019d apparently seen only once: the concept of inspiration by the unseen and unavailable is a deeply engrained tradition in western poetry. Here, \u201cI\u2019ve never seen you\u201d is a statement unpicked and disproven: the poem conjures a suspicion that literal \u201cnot-seeing\u201d may be crucial to imagination\u2019s inner sight. Not unlike Petrarch\u2019s Laura, Wordsworth\u2019s daffodils, flashing \u201cupon that inward eye\u201d, were not only re-seen. They were seen as if they could see the poet.The power of the transitive use of \u201cruns\u201d reinforces that thought. Canada \u201cruns\u201d the speakers heart in the beginning, \u201cbut not bone\u201d. At the end, Canada\u2019s forest \u201cruns\u201d the speaker\u2019s head, which is both bone and softer tissue. Perhaps the most important repeated motif, \u201cNo one comes\u201d, ends the poem on a note of bleakness. In a projected movement away from sensation and emotion, the idealised \u201cforest, shadowed muddy, black as winter\u201d finally, perhaps, begins to disappear.CanadaI\u2019ve never seen you.In my head you run from mein a spool: winter lakes pining for night,blackened snow, muddy as shadow.No one comes. In the heart of your forest I beatmy hands on rock, on the bone of landI\u2019ve never seen. Yourun the heart, but not bone.No one comes. The forest is blackand muddies rock. Shadows never beatmy head but in winter. I\u2019ve seen pines spoolingnight from your land like snow.The lakes are my handsrunning into the heart, into bonethough winter snows the lakesto rock. In the black forestheartbeats spool shadows. Do yousee? No one comes. Nightand the bones in the pines run muddy.My head is never a land insidethough winter snows. Lakeforest, keep runninginto the land shadowed by my head.You spool rock and bone-beaten hearts. I see pines snow-muddythe black of the lakes.No one comes. Never. Winteris the forest keep. Running,no one comes.Pool to see my heart, bones, hands,beaten by the land and the lakes and the rocksand the pines and the snow I\u2019ve never seen.At night, shadowed muddy, black as winter,your forest runs my head.No one comes.", "tags": ["Poetry", "Books"], "title": "Poem of the week: Canada by Katherine Stansfield"},{"date": "2014-11-17T01:26:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada \u2013 one of the few countries previously in line with Australia\u2019s opposition to the international Green Climate Fund \u2013 now appears to have changed its mind, with Tony Abbott\u2019s close friend prime minister Stephen Harper saying he is preparing to make a contribution.Abbott has defied global pressure to commit to the fund, designed to help poor countries adapt to climate change, because Australia is already spending $2.5bn on its domestic Direct Action fund and providing $10bn in capital to a so-called \u201cgreen bank\u201d \u2013 which he is trying to abolish.World leaders forced Australia to include stronger language about the Green Climate Fund in the G20 communique \u2013 and during the summit Barack Obama pledged the US would contribute $3bn to it and the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, offered $1.5bn. But soon after the conference was over Abbott indicated it would make no immediate difference to Australia\u2019s position.On Sunday Harper said Canada was preparing to make a contribution to the UN fund, the Globe and Mail and other Canadian media outlets reported. He did not nominate an amount.Last November, Abbott and Harper \u201cmade history\u201d by jointly dissenting from support for the Green Climate Fund in a communique from the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting.Speaking after a meeting on Sunday night with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, Abbott said Direct Action \u2013 which funds Australia\u2019s domestic emissions reduction, not international efforts \u2013 was already \u201cquite a substantial fund\u201d. He also cited the Clean Energy Finance Corporation, which he is committed to abolish.\u201cWe also have a Clean Energy Finance Corporation which was established by the former government and there is $10bn in capital which has been allocated to this,\u201d he said. \u201cIn addition to those two funds a proportion of our overseas aid, particularly in the Pacific, is allocated for various environmental schemes including schemes to deal with climate change. So, we are doing a very great deal and I suppose given what we are doing we don\u2019t intend, at this time, to do more.\u201dEnvironment minister Greg Hunt tried to compare Obama\u2019s $3bn commitment to the international fund to be spent in poor countries with Australia\u2019s $2.5bn spending on its own domestic policy, saying that if the Direct Action fund was implemented in the US \u201con a like for like basis it would be the equivalent of a $25bn fund\u201d.Neither Abbott nor Hunt ruled out making a contribution to the fund at some time in the future and it is understood the Department of Foreign Affairs, which leads Australia\u2019s international climate negotiations, has been considering a donation. The fund is seen as a critical part of a successful outcome at the United Nations Paris conference next year, which will discuss a global emissions pact to take effect after 2020.But Abbott\u2019s trenchant opposition to the fund is seen as an impediment to any contribution. He has publicly disparaged it as an international \u201cBob Brown bank\u201d \u2013 another reference to the CEFC, which he wants to abolish but he also cites as evidence of Australia\u2019s climate action.As revealed by Guardian Australia, Abbott told world leaders at the Brisbane summit that as the leader of a major coal producer he would be \u201cstanding up for coal\u201d.The communique references demanded by other leaders, including Obama, were reluctantly accepted by Australia at the last minute. They included a call for contributions to the fund and for the \u201cphasing out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies\u201d.An EU spokesman reportedly described the climate negotiations with Australia as being like \u201ctrench warfare\u201d. Other officials said it had been \u201cvery difficult\u201d and protracted.Speaking to the media after the summit, Abbott downplayed the importance of the fund. He took a similar line on the greenhouse reduction pledges unveiled by Obama and the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, immediately before the summit.He said all nations \u201csupport strong action \u2026 to address climate change\u201d, but added: \u201cWe are all going to approach this in our own way and there are a range of [climate] funds which are there.\u201dObama and the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, both urged G20 countries to contribute to the Green Climate Fund. In the end, at Australia\u2019s insistence, the communique called for contributions to financing funds \u201csuch as the Green Climate Fund\u201d.Hunt suggested a regional rainforest fund, to which Australia recently pledged $6m, could substitute for contributions to the Green Climate Fund.", "tags": ["Climate change", "G20 Brisbane 2014", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Tony Abbott", "Coal", "Coalition", "Australia news", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "G20", "Australian politics", "Ban Ki-moon", "Greg Hunt", "Shinzo Abe", "Brisbane"], "title": "Canada breaks with Australia to contribute to Green Climate Fund"},{"date": "2014-10-23T19:56:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government indicated on Thursday that it intends to speed up proposals to toughen the country\u2019s anti-terror laws in the wake of the attack on parliament in Ottawa, including a measure that would allow \u201cpreventative detention\u201d.As the House of Commons opened to rapturous applause for the sergeant-at-arms, the ceremonial security chief who prevented further tragedy by apparently killing the perpetrator of Wednesday\u2019s brazen assault, prime minister Stephen Harper indicated that his government was resolved to toughen the country\u2019s security legislation.The governing Conservatives have made no secret of their plan to install new anti-terror powers, giving the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) more powers to track, investigative and detain would-be homegrown terrorists. Harper promised the proposals would be brought forward.\u201cThey need to be much strengthened, and I assure you, Mr Speaker, that work which is already under way will be expedited,\u201d Mr Harper said.Details of those new powers have yet to be released, but justice minister Peter MacKay indicated to reporters that they will include measures to allow the preventive detention of suspected would-be terrorists.\u201cWe\u2019re examining all those sections of the criminal code, and all measures under the law that will allow us, in some instances, to take pre-emptive measures,\u201d he said.When asked about the schedule for the new legislation, government House leader\u200e Peter Van Loan refused to say exactly when a bill would come forward, acknowledging only that Wednesday\u2019s events had changed the context. A security bill, was originally due to be tabled on Wednesday morning.The Harper government contends that Canada\u2019s security agencies, tasked with thwarting attacks, are demanding greater powers, arguing that the current arrangements for judicial oversight hampers their ability to deal with imminent threats.But despite the cross-party show of unity and defiance on Thursday, opposition parties are warning that the government, in the wake of the Ottawa attack, is rushing to adopt expansive new spying powers without considering the consequences.The leader of the official opposition party, the New Democrats, Thomas Mulcair, said that one act of terrorism should not bend the Canadian way, nor should it even hamper the weekly yoga class that takes place on the front lawn of Parliament \u2013 a symbol, he said, of the openness of the Canadian legislature.\u201cWe cannot allow that openness and freedom to be rolled back either,\u201d he said.The Liberal party leader, Justin Trudeau, said those who attack Canada \u201cwill not make the rules about this land we share and they will not get to change us\u201d.Harper acknowledged the strain that Wednesday\u2019s events put on the capital, calling it \u201cbeyond and above anything that any of us are really expecting to face\u201d.But amid the determination and effort to return to normality, there was tight security in the downtown area \u2013 unusual for Ottawa. A security permitter around Parliament Hill meant that only a small number of staffers, parliamentarians and journalists were permitted through, and only at one checkpoint. Cordoned-off streets meant a headache for commuters.Despite the contentious debate on how to respond to the threat of domestic terrorism, the political parties were unified in their tribute to the sergeant-at-arms, Kevin Vickers, who was given a prolonged standing ovation at the opening of the parliamentary session.But Vickers was keen to praise his colleagues. \u201cDuring extraordinary circumstances, security personnel demonstrated professionalism and courage,\u201d he said in a statement. \u201cI am grateful and proud to be part of this team.\u201dReports emerged on Thursday that Vickers, after killing the shooter, rushed to a nearby room, where the Harper was meeting with his caucus, to ensure the prime minister\u2019s security.", "tags": ["Canada", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Gun crime", "Americas"], "title": "Canada considers 'preventative detention' in wake of Ottawa attack"},{"date": "2014-10-23T05:40:36Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Australian political leaders have said they stand \u201cshoulder to shoulder with our Canadian comrades in defiance and resolution\u201d after a gunman\u2019s attack on a soldier and on the parliament in Ottawa.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, described the infiltration of the Canadian legislature as \u201can affront to this parliament, too\u201d and the opposition leader, Bill Shorten, reaffirmed his intention to give bipartisan support to the Australian government\u2019s counter-terrorism laws.Australian authorities are reviewing security measures at public buildings, including Parliament House, and military sites after the dramatic events in the Canadian capital on Wednesday. A soldier guarding the Canadian war memorial in Ottawa was shot dead and a gunman then stormed the nearby parliament before being killed by a parliamentary official.Abbott and Shorten expressed solidarity with Canada at the beginning of question time on Thursday, with the Canadian high commissioner to Australia in attendance.Australians, the prime minister said, felt Canada\u2019s \u201cshock, pain and anger\u201d.\u201cI have been in their parliament, I have been at their war memorial. So many of us have,\u201d Abbott said.\u201cI regard Stephen Harper, their prime minister, as a friend and almost a brother. So an attack on their parliament is an affront to this parliament, too.\u201cToday, we stand shoulder to shoulder with our Canadian comrades in defiance and resolution. We stand for freedom and for the right of all people in all places to choose their way of life and their way of worship. We always have, and we always will.\u201dAbbott said the events were a reminder that \u201cthe terrorist threat to our people, our institutions and to our way of life\u201d was real.He noted that Canada and Australia both had to confront the problem of some of their citizens travelling to Iraq and Syria to join groups such as Islamic State (Isis). Shorten said his thoughts were with the family of Corporal Nathan Cirillo, the Canadian army reservist killed while standing watch at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, and for the parliamentary guard recovering in hospital.\u201cThe footage that has rolled across our television screens today captures something of the fear and confusion that gripped all of the innocent people in the Canadian parliament and those paying their respects at the Canadian war memorial,\u201d Shorten said.Shorten said Australians would feel affected by the events \u201cbut today should not be cause for fear\u201d. He said Australia\u2019s parliament, war memorial and public buildings must remain open to the public because they belonged to the people.The justice minister, Michael Keenan, said authorities had increased security, including the decision six weeks ago to deploy armed police officers inside and outside Parliament House and improve tactical response capabilities.The foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, said when she contacted the Canadian foreign affairs minister, John Baird, early on Thursday, he said he had been just metres from the gunman, and was still barricaded within the parliament building.Bishop said Canada, like Australia, was part of the international coalition fighting against Isis in Iraq. \u201cThe chilling video of a young 17-year-old Australian threatening his country as he takes up arms with [Isis] shows that we must take immediate steps, a strong response to counter this threat.\u201dBishop said she had cancelled about 70 Australian passports on the grounds that the holder posed a security risk. She said forthcoming legislation would allow her to suspend passports.The government\u2019s second stage of national security changes, known as the foreign fighters bill, is scheduled for parliamentary debate and a vote next week.Labor appears likely to support the bill, having voted last month in favour of the government\u2019s previous bill expanding security agency powers and criminalising disclosure of special intelligence operations.Shorten said on Thursday: \u201cWhen it comes to fighting terrorism, we are in this together. It is important that we have a bipartisan approach \u2013 we have and we do.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Bill Shorten", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Ottawa shooting: Australian leaders 'shoulder to shoulder' with Canada"},{"date": "2014-10-21T13:27:45Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The unrest is palpable. In First Nations across Canada, word is spreading of a historic court ruling recognizing Indigenous land rights. And the murmurs are turning to action: an eviction notice issued to a railway company in British Columbia; a park occupied in Vancouver; lawsuits launched against the Enbridge tar sands pipeline; a government deal reconsidered by Ontario Algonquins; and sovereignty declared by the Atikamekw in Quebec.These First Nations have been emboldened by this summer\u2019s Supreme Court of Canada William decision, which recognized the aboriginal title of the Tsilhqot\u2019in nation to 1,750 sq km of their land in central British Columbia \u2013 not outright ownership, but the right to use and manage the land and to reap its economic benefits.The ruling affects all \u201cunceded\u201d territory in Canada \u2013 those lands never signed away through a treaty or conquered by war. Which means that over an enormous land mass \u2013 most of British Columbia, large parts of Quebec and Atlantic Canada, and a number of other spots \u2013 a new legal landscape is emerging that offers the prospect of much more responsible land stewardship.First Nations are starting to act accordingly, and none more so than the Tsilhqot\u2019in. They\u2019ve declared a tribal park over a swath of their territory. And they\u2019ve announced their own policy on mining \u2013 a vision that leaves room for its possibility, but on much more strict environmental terms. Earlier this month they erected a totem pole to overlook a sacred area where copper and gold miner Taseko has for years been controversially attempting to establish itself; no mine will ever be built there.And the Canadian government\u2019s response? Far from embracing these newly recognised indigenous land rights, they are trying to accelerate their elimination. The court has definitively told Canada to accept the reality of aboriginal title: the government is doing everything in its power to deny it.Canadians can be pardoned for believing that when the country\u2019s highest court renders a decision, the government clicks their heels and sets themselves to implementing it. The judiciary directs, the executive branch follows: that\u2019s how we\u2019re taught it works. But it doesn\u2019t always \u2013 and especially not when what\u2019s at stake is the land at the heart of Canada\u2019s resource extraction.The new land rights ruling is now clashing directly with the Canadian government\u2019s method for cementing their grip on land and resources. It\u2019s a negotiating policy whose name \u2013 the so-called Comprehensive Land Claims \u2013 is intended to make your eyes glaze over. But its bureaucratic clothing disguises the government\u2019s naked ambition: to grab as much of indigenous peoples\u2019 land as possible.This is what dispossession by negotiation looks like. The government demands that First Nations trade away \u2013 or in the original term, to \u201cextinguish\u201d \u2013 their rights to 95% of their traditional territory. Their return is some money and small parcels of land, but insidiously, as private property, instead of in the collective way that indigenous peoples have long held and stewarded it. And First Nations need to provide costly, exhaustive proof of their rights to their own land, for which they have amassed a stunning $700 million in debt \u2013 a debt the government doesn\u2019t think twice about using to arm-twist.Despite the pressure, most First Nations have not yet signed their names to these crooked deals \u2013 especially when the supreme court is simultaneously directing the government to reconcile with First Nations and share the land. But the supreme court\u2019s confirmation that this approach is unconstitutional and illegal matters little to the government. What enables them to flout their own legal system is that Canadians remain scarcely aware of it.Acting without public scrutiny, prime minister Stephen Harper is trying to shore up support for this policy \u2013 now 40 years old \u2013 to finally secure the elimination of indigenous land rights. The process is led by the same man, Douglas Eyford, who has been Harper\u2019s advisor on getting tar sands pipelines and energy projects built in western Canada. That is no coincidence. The government is growing more desperate to remove the biggest obstacle that stands in the way of a corporate bonanza for dirty fossil fuels: the unceded aboriginal title of First Nations \u2013 backed now by the supreme court of Canada.A public commenting period opened during the government\u2019s pr blitz has created an opportunity for the indigenous rights movement and concerned Canadians to demand a long-overdue change in the government\u2019s behaviour. Recognising aboriginal title, restoring lands to First Nations management, would be to embrace the diversity and vision we desperately need in this moment of ecological and economic crisis.Because the government agenda is not just about extinguishing indigenous land rights. It\u2019s about extinguishing another way of seeing the world. About extinguishing economic models that prize interdependence with the living world, that recognise prosperity isn\u2019t secured by the endless depletion of resources. And about extinguishing a love for the land, a love rooted in the unique boundaries and beauty of a place.\u201cThe land is the most important thing,\u201d Tsilhqot\u2019in chief Roger William told me. \u201cOur songs, our place names, our history, our stories \u2013 they come from the land that we are a part of. All of it is interrelated with who we are.\u201dThe few days I spent in Tsilhqot\u2019in territory five years ago made that vivid. It is a land of snow-capped mountains \u2013 Ts\u2019il-os, who in their stories was a man transformed into giant rock after separating from his wife. Wild horses stalk the valleys. Salmon smoke on drying racks. The Tsilhqot\u2019in carefully protect and nurture these fish \u2013 running stronger in their rivers than anywhere else in the province.That\u2019s why the habit of government officials, of media and even of supreme court judges to call the Tsilhqoti\u2019in \u201cnomadic\u201d bothers William so much: his people have lived on these lands for thousands of years, while it is non-natives who are constantly moving and resettling. And what could be more nomadic and transient than the extractive industry itself \u2013 grabbing what resources and profits it can before abandoning one area for another.As Canadians look more closely, they are discovering that the unceded status of vast territories across this country is not a threat, as they\u2019ve long been told. It is a tremendous gift, protected with love by indigenous nations over generations, to be seized for the possibilities it now offers for governing the land in a radically more just and sustainable way for everyone.In this battle between the love of the land and a drive for its destruction, those behind the extractive economy have everything to lose and indigenous peoples everything to win. The rest of us, depending on our stand, have a transformed country to gain.@Martin_Lukacs", "tags": ["Environment", "Land rights", "Indigenous peoples", "Fossil fuels", "Canada", "Law"], "title": "The indigenous land rights ruling that could transform Canada  | Martin Lukacs"},{"date": "2014-10-11T23:00:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The idea of tomato wine may not sound appealing, but many a sommelier has taken Canada\u2019s Omerto Sec for a crisp sauvignon blanc.In picturesque countryside near Quebec City, Pascale Miche runs Omerto, the world\u2019s only commercial producer of aperitif tomato wine.Rather than the green and purple grapes you\u2019ll find on a typical vineyard, fruits of blushy pink and scarlet cover the landscape.Originally from Belgium, Miche inherited his vin de tomate recipe from his grandfather, who, in an effort to avoid waste during the first world war, turned his excess tomatoes into wine.Miche experimented with dozens of heirloom varieties and settled on two blends, sec (the one that tastes like sauvignon blanc and is perfect as an aperitif) and moelleux (like a white port, with a hint of cherry tomato, great with seafood), each using six types of tomato. The process is the same as with wine: the fruit is crushed, fermented with yeast, and bottled.Because tomatoes lack tannins, Omerto wines have the soft, golden hue of traditional whites, with flavours that imitate them as well. You can visit for a tour and tasting \u2013 or order online for a dinner party tipple with a difference.\u2022 domainevb.caLindsay Anderson is co-creator of FEAST: an Edible Road Trip", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Wine", "Life and style", "Food and drink", "Food & drink"], "title": "The foodie traveller in Canada: glass of tomato wine anyone? \r\n"},{"date": "2014-12-27T07:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Every wayfarer instinctively understands that travel can take them to a wonderful world of extraordinary adventure and education. The town of Churchill, on the shore of Hudson Bay in Manitoba, northern Canada, is a destination which I consider one of the photographic capitals of the world. This trip rewired my brain into thinking of ways to push my photography to the next level.I stayed at Lazy Bear Lodge in Churchill, which arranged a full itinerary. The tundra tour took us deep into the wilderness, where I saw attractions, such as the wrecks of the Miss Piggy, a 1979 freight plane, and the mysterious MV Ithaca. These subjects have disrupted the beauty of the Churchill countryside and can now be used to develop some creative images.The experienced guides from Lazy Bear Lodge made me feel like I was part of Canada\u2019s chronicle. I learned all about the town\u2019s colourful and tragic history. I followed in the footsteps of Sir John Franklin, the intrepid sailor who battled for years through treacherous seas and freak weather conditions in search of the Northwest Passage. On the water, I explored Hudson Bay, seeking out the polar bears frolicking in the rocks along the water\u2019s edge, and kayaked among the beluga whales which congregate in their thousands at the mouth of the Churchill river. As a scuba diver and underwater photographer, the highlight of my trip was to swim with beluga whales and photograph wildlife I would otherwise never have experienced, such as snowy owls and huskies.The trip gave my photography a new perspective and brought me experiences that will remain with me for a lifetime.\u2022 The prize, organised by the Canadian Tourism Commission, was a six-night trip to Churchill, Canada, on Lazy Bear Lodge\u2019s Ultimate Arctic Summer Adventure (lazybearlodge.com/tours). More information about holidays in Canada at keepexploring.ca\u2022 superjolly.com", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Travel photography", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel photography competition:  winners' trip to Canada"},{"date": "2014-11-24T10:16:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, from Katherine Stansfield\u2019s lively first collection, Playing House, has some of the restless vocal complexity of a Baroque fugue. A more obvious literary relative would be the sestina. In fact, Canada seems to adapt a few sestina-like techniques, while firmly announcing that, no, it\u2019s not a sestina, nor would wish to be. For a start, there are five rather than six-and-a-half stanzas, each with seven lines rather than six: the lines vary in length so, visually, the poem has an un-sestina-like rugged (mountainous?) outline. It sings more than most sestinas. But both fugue and sestina are forms constrained by fixed rules of repetition. Canada has multiple repetands, but no obvious symmetrical plot for their appearance (unless sharper ears than mine can discern one).The patterns flow and change. For example, some form of the verb, to run, appears in every stanza, in lines two, seven, five, one, six, whereas the forms of pine, which features both as noun (\u201cpines\u201d as in pine-trees) and verb (\u201cpining\u201d) appear in lines three, four, five, four, four. The first line of the first stanza comes back as the last, with a new grammatical twist \u2013 but that twist, involving a full-stop and a single word beginning a new sentence, stops short of becoming a repeated last-line device. The random element seems important, in keeping with the organic nature of the imagery. Words and meanings are at liberty to dissolve like snow, or maintain their shape for longer, like rock.One of the key-words, spool, and its derivations, perhaps best describes this fluid, cinematic process. Canada, the poem\u2019s addressee and imagined place, is recreated from deliberately stereotypical characteristics \u2013 pines, lakes, snow, etc \u2013 but not locked into definition. It\u2019s unmappable \u2013 a land both out there and inside the speaker. It spools away and is drawn back and around that consciousness. Although the observation \u201cno one comes\u201d is a major repeating motif, the speaker seems less an isolated figure than one whose being (head, hands, bones, heartbeats) is assimilated into and by the landscape: \u201cThe lakes are my hands/ running into the heart, into bone \u2026 \u201d The descriptive writing may border on the surreal, as here, or attain vivid metaphorical presence, as when \u201cwinter snows the lakes/ to rock\u201d or rock becomes \u201cthe bone of land\u201d. It\u2019s always unexpected, potent, and sparked by compression and juxtaposition.There are many subtle and enjoyable word-shifts. I like the compounds, \u201cLake//forest\u201d, \u201cbone-beaten\u201d and \u201csnow-muddy\u201d (a verb), and the use of \u201ckeep\u201d as a noun in the seventh line, stanza four. Passive and active voices of the verb (\u201csee\u201d, \u201cseen\u201d, \u201cbeat\u201d, \u201cbeaten\u201d) help merge place and poet. \u201cSpool\u201d becomes \u201cPool\u201d in the second line of the last stanza, where it might be the verb of a command, or a noun suggesting a pool reflecting heart, bones and hands. Dualism is a constant feature: blackness and snow, rock and muddiness, shadows and bones, land and lake, head and heart, stasis and flow.Canada is surely a love poem. The speaker declares strong emotions, and is concerned with charting them in a form that denotes obsession. As a troubadour-poet permits his mistress to set ice and fire at raging war inside him, Stansfield\u2019s persona is permissive, willing to be subjugated to the linguistic icons that mean \u201cCanada\u201d. Petrarch spooled tireless love poems to Laura, a woman he\u2019d apparently seen only once: the concept of inspiration by the unseen and unavailable is a deeply engrained tradition in western poetry. Here, \u201cI\u2019ve never seen you\u201d is a statement unpicked and disproven: the poem conjures a suspicion that literal \u201cnot-seeing\u201d may be crucial to imagination\u2019s inner sight. Not unlike Petrarch\u2019s Laura, Wordsworth\u2019s daffodils, flashing \u201cupon that inward eye\u201d, were not only re-seen. They were seen as if they could see the poet.The power of the transitive use of \u201cruns\u201d reinforces that thought. Canada \u201cruns\u201d the speakers heart in the beginning, \u201cbut not bone\u201d. At the end, Canada\u2019s forest \u201cruns\u201d the speaker\u2019s head, which is both bone and softer tissue. Perhaps the most important repeated motif, \u201cNo one comes\u201d, ends the poem on a note of bleakness. In a projected movement away from sensation and emotion, the idealised \u201cforest, shadowed muddy, black as winter\u201d finally, perhaps, begins to disappear.CanadaI\u2019ve never seen you.In my head you run from mein a spool: winter lakes pining for night,blackened snow, muddy as shadow.No one comes. In the heart of your forest I beatmy hands on rock, on the bone of landI\u2019ve never seen. Yourun the heart, but not bone.No one comes. The forest is blackand muddies rock. Shadows never beatmy head but in winter. I\u2019ve seen pines spoolingnight from your land like snow.The lakes are my handsrunning into the heart, into bonethough winter snows the lakesto rock. In the black forestheartbeats spool shadows. Do yousee? No one comes. Nightand the bones in the pines run muddy.My head is never a land insidethough winter snows. Lakeforest, keep runninginto the land shadowed by my head.You spool rock and bone-beaten hearts. I see pines snow-muddythe black of the lakes.No one comes. Never. Winteris the forest keep. Running,no one comes.Pool to see my heart, bones, hands,beaten by the land and the lakes and the rocksand the pines and the snow I\u2019ve never seen.At night, shadowed muddy, black as winter,your forest runs my head.No one comes.", "tags": ["Poetry", "Books"], "title": "Poem of the week: Canada by Katherine Stansfield"},{"date": "2014-11-17T01:26:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada \u2013 one of the few countries previously in line with Australia\u2019s opposition to the international Green Climate Fund \u2013 now appears to have changed its mind, with Tony Abbott\u2019s close friend prime minister Stephen Harper saying he is preparing to make a contribution.Abbott has defied global pressure to commit to the fund, designed to help poor countries adapt to climate change, because Australia is already spending $2.5bn on its domestic Direct Action fund and providing $10bn in capital to a so-called \u201cgreen bank\u201d \u2013 which he is trying to abolish.World leaders forced Australia to include stronger language about the Green Climate Fund in the G20 communique \u2013 and during the summit Barack Obama pledged the US would contribute $3bn to it and the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, offered $1.5bn. But soon after the conference was over Abbott indicated it would make no immediate difference to Australia\u2019s position.On Sunday Harper said Canada was preparing to make a contribution to the UN fund, the Globe and Mail and other Canadian media outlets reported. He did not nominate an amount.Last November, Abbott and Harper \u201cmade history\u201d by jointly dissenting from support for the Green Climate Fund in a communique from the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting.Speaking after a meeting on Sunday night with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, Abbott said Direct Action \u2013 which funds Australia\u2019s domestic emissions reduction, not international efforts \u2013 was already \u201cquite a substantial fund\u201d. He also cited the Clean Energy Finance Corporation, which he is committed to abolish.\u201cWe also have a Clean Energy Finance Corporation which was established by the former government and there is $10bn in capital which has been allocated to this,\u201d he said. \u201cIn addition to those two funds a proportion of our overseas aid, particularly in the Pacific, is allocated for various environmental schemes including schemes to deal with climate change. So, we are doing a very great deal and I suppose given what we are doing we don\u2019t intend, at this time, to do more.\u201dEnvironment minister Greg Hunt tried to compare Obama\u2019s $3bn commitment to the international fund to be spent in poor countries with Australia\u2019s $2.5bn spending on its own domestic policy, saying that if the Direct Action fund was implemented in the US \u201con a like for like basis it would be the equivalent of a $25bn fund\u201d.Neither Abbott nor Hunt ruled out making a contribution to the fund at some time in the future and it is understood the Department of Foreign Affairs, which leads Australia\u2019s international climate negotiations, has been considering a donation. The fund is seen as a critical part of a successful outcome at the United Nations Paris conference next year, which will discuss a global emissions pact to take effect after 2020.But Abbott\u2019s trenchant opposition to the fund is seen as an impediment to any contribution. He has publicly disparaged it as an international \u201cBob Brown bank\u201d \u2013 another reference to the CEFC, which he wants to abolish but he also cites as evidence of Australia\u2019s climate action.As revealed by Guardian Australia, Abbott told world leaders at the Brisbane summit that as the leader of a major coal producer he would be \u201cstanding up for coal\u201d.The communique references demanded by other leaders, including Obama, were reluctantly accepted by Australia at the last minute. They included a call for contributions to the fund and for the \u201cphasing out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies\u201d.An EU spokesman reportedly described the climate negotiations with Australia as being like \u201ctrench warfare\u201d. Other officials said it had been \u201cvery difficult\u201d and protracted.Speaking to the media after the summit, Abbott downplayed the importance of the fund. He took a similar line on the greenhouse reduction pledges unveiled by Obama and the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, immediately before the summit.He said all nations \u201csupport strong action \u2026 to address climate change\u201d, but added: \u201cWe are all going to approach this in our own way and there are a range of [climate] funds which are there.\u201dObama and the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, both urged G20 countries to contribute to the Green Climate Fund. In the end, at Australia\u2019s insistence, the communique called for contributions to financing funds \u201csuch as the Green Climate Fund\u201d.Hunt suggested a regional rainforest fund, to which Australia recently pledged $6m, could substitute for contributions to the Green Climate Fund.", "tags": ["Climate change", "G20 Brisbane 2014", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Tony Abbott", "Coal", "Coalition", "Australia news", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "G20", "Australian politics", "Ban Ki-moon", "Greg Hunt", "Shinzo Abe", "Brisbane"], "title": "Canada breaks with Australia to contribute to Green Climate Fund"},{"date": "2014-10-23T19:56:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government indicated on Thursday that it intends to speed up proposals to toughen the country\u2019s anti-terror laws in the wake of the attack on parliament in Ottawa, including a measure that would allow \u201cpreventative detention\u201d.As the House of Commons opened to rapturous applause for the sergeant-at-arms, the ceremonial security chief who prevented further tragedy by apparently killing the perpetrator of Wednesday\u2019s brazen assault, prime minister Stephen Harper indicated that his government was resolved to toughen the country\u2019s security legislation.The governing Conservatives have made no secret of their plan to install new anti-terror powers, giving the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) more powers to track, investigative and detain would-be homegrown terrorists. Harper promised the proposals would be brought forward.\u201cThey need to be much strengthened, and I assure you, Mr Speaker, that work which is already under way will be expedited,\u201d Mr Harper said.Details of those new powers have yet to be released, but justice minister Peter MacKay indicated to reporters that they will include measures to allow the preventive detention of suspected would-be terrorists.\u201cWe\u2019re examining all those sections of the criminal code, and all measures under the law that will allow us, in some instances, to take pre-emptive measures,\u201d he said.When asked about the schedule for the new legislation, government House leader\u200e Peter Van Loan refused to say exactly when a bill would come forward, acknowledging only that Wednesday\u2019s events had changed the context. A security bill, was originally due to be tabled on Wednesday morning.The Harper government contends that Canada\u2019s security agencies, tasked with thwarting attacks, are demanding greater powers, arguing that the current arrangements for judicial oversight hampers their ability to deal with imminent threats.But despite the cross-party show of unity and defiance on Thursday, opposition parties are warning that the government, in the wake of the Ottawa attack, is rushing to adopt expansive new spying powers without considering the consequences.The leader of the official opposition party, the New Democrats, Thomas Mulcair, said that one act of terrorism should not bend the Canadian way, nor should it even hamper the weekly yoga class that takes place on the front lawn of Parliament \u2013 a symbol, he said, of the openness of the Canadian legislature.\u201cWe cannot allow that openness and freedom to be rolled back either,\u201d he said.The Liberal party leader, Justin Trudeau, said those who attack Canada \u201cwill not make the rules about this land we share and they will not get to change us\u201d.Harper acknowledged the strain that Wednesday\u2019s events put on the capital, calling it \u201cbeyond and above anything that any of us are really expecting to face\u201d.But amid the determination and effort to return to normality, there was tight security in the downtown area \u2013 unusual for Ottawa. A security permitter around Parliament Hill meant that only a small number of staffers, parliamentarians and journalists were permitted through, and only at one checkpoint. Cordoned-off streets meant a headache for commuters.Despite the contentious debate on how to respond to the threat of domestic terrorism, the political parties were unified in their tribute to the sergeant-at-arms, Kevin Vickers, who was given a prolonged standing ovation at the opening of the parliamentary session.But Vickers was keen to praise his colleagues. \u201cDuring extraordinary circumstances, security personnel demonstrated professionalism and courage,\u201d he said in a statement. \u201cI am grateful and proud to be part of this team.\u201dReports emerged on Thursday that Vickers, after killing the shooter, rushed to a nearby room, where the Harper was meeting with his caucus, to ensure the prime minister\u2019s security.", "tags": ["Canada", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Gun crime", "Americas"], "title": "Canada considers 'preventative detention' in wake of Ottawa attack"},{"date": "2014-10-23T05:40:36Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Australian political leaders have said they stand \u201cshoulder to shoulder with our Canadian comrades in defiance and resolution\u201d after a gunman\u2019s attack on a soldier and on the parliament in Ottawa.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, described the infiltration of the Canadian legislature as \u201can affront to this parliament, too\u201d and the opposition leader, Bill Shorten, reaffirmed his intention to give bipartisan support to the Australian government\u2019s counter-terrorism laws.Australian authorities are reviewing security measures at public buildings, including Parliament House, and military sites after the dramatic events in the Canadian capital on Wednesday. A soldier guarding the Canadian war memorial in Ottawa was shot dead and a gunman then stormed the nearby parliament before being killed by a parliamentary official.Abbott and Shorten expressed solidarity with Canada at the beginning of question time on Thursday, with the Canadian high commissioner to Australia in attendance.Australians, the prime minister said, felt Canada\u2019s \u201cshock, pain and anger\u201d.\u201cI have been in their parliament, I have been at their war memorial. So many of us have,\u201d Abbott said.\u201cI regard Stephen Harper, their prime minister, as a friend and almost a brother. So an attack on their parliament is an affront to this parliament, too.\u201cToday, we stand shoulder to shoulder with our Canadian comrades in defiance and resolution. We stand for freedom and for the right of all people in all places to choose their way of life and their way of worship. We always have, and we always will.\u201dAbbott said the events were a reminder that \u201cthe terrorist threat to our people, our institutions and to our way of life\u201d was real.He noted that Canada and Australia both had to confront the problem of some of their citizens travelling to Iraq and Syria to join groups such as Islamic State (Isis). Shorten said his thoughts were with the family of Corporal Nathan Cirillo, the Canadian army reservist killed while standing watch at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, and for the parliamentary guard recovering in hospital.\u201cThe footage that has rolled across our television screens today captures something of the fear and confusion that gripped all of the innocent people in the Canadian parliament and those paying their respects at the Canadian war memorial,\u201d Shorten said.Shorten said Australians would feel affected by the events \u201cbut today should not be cause for fear\u201d. He said Australia\u2019s parliament, war memorial and public buildings must remain open to the public because they belonged to the people.The justice minister, Michael Keenan, said authorities had increased security, including the decision six weeks ago to deploy armed police officers inside and outside Parliament House and improve tactical response capabilities.The foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, said when she contacted the Canadian foreign affairs minister, John Baird, early on Thursday, he said he had been just metres from the gunman, and was still barricaded within the parliament building.Bishop said Canada, like Australia, was part of the international coalition fighting against Isis in Iraq. \u201cThe chilling video of a young 17-year-old Australian threatening his country as he takes up arms with [Isis] shows that we must take immediate steps, a strong response to counter this threat.\u201dBishop said she had cancelled about 70 Australian passports on the grounds that the holder posed a security risk. She said forthcoming legislation would allow her to suspend passports.The government\u2019s second stage of national security changes, known as the foreign fighters bill, is scheduled for parliamentary debate and a vote next week.Labor appears likely to support the bill, having voted last month in favour of the government\u2019s previous bill expanding security agency powers and criminalising disclosure of special intelligence operations.Shorten said on Thursday: \u201cWhen it comes to fighting terrorism, we are in this together. It is important that we have a bipartisan approach \u2013 we have and we do.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Bill Shorten", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Ottawa shooting: Australian leaders 'shoulder to shoulder' with Canada"},{"date": "2014-10-21T13:27:45Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The unrest is palpable. In First Nations across Canada, word is spreading of a historic court ruling recognizing Indigenous land rights. And the murmurs are turning to action: an eviction notice issued to a railway company in British Columbia; a park occupied in Vancouver; lawsuits launched against the Enbridge tar sands pipeline; a government deal reconsidered by Ontario Algonquins; and sovereignty declared by the Atikamekw in Quebec.These First Nations have been emboldened by this summer\u2019s Supreme Court of Canada William decision, which recognized the aboriginal title of the Tsilhqot\u2019in nation to 1,750 sq km of their land in central British Columbia \u2013 not outright ownership, but the right to use and manage the land and to reap its economic benefits.The ruling affects all \u201cunceded\u201d territory in Canada \u2013 those lands never signed away through a treaty or conquered by war. Which means that over an enormous land mass \u2013 most of British Columbia, large parts of Quebec and Atlantic Canada, and a number of other spots \u2013 a new legal landscape is emerging that offers the prospect of much more responsible land stewardship.First Nations are starting to act accordingly, and none more so than the Tsilhqot\u2019in. They\u2019ve declared a tribal park over a swath of their territory. And they\u2019ve announced their own policy on mining \u2013 a vision that leaves room for its possibility, but on much more strict environmental terms. Earlier this month they erected a totem pole to overlook a sacred area where copper and gold miner Taseko has for years been controversially attempting to establish itself; no mine will ever be built there.And the Canadian government\u2019s response? Far from embracing these newly recognised indigenous land rights, they are trying to accelerate their elimination. The court has definitively told Canada to accept the reality of aboriginal title: the government is doing everything in its power to deny it.Canadians can be pardoned for believing that when the country\u2019s highest court renders a decision, the government clicks their heels and sets themselves to implementing it. The judiciary directs, the executive branch follows: that\u2019s how we\u2019re taught it works. But it doesn\u2019t always \u2013 and especially not when what\u2019s at stake is the land at the heart of Canada\u2019s resource extraction.The new land rights ruling is now clashing directly with the Canadian government\u2019s method for cementing their grip on land and resources. It\u2019s a negotiating policy whose name \u2013 the so-called Comprehensive Land Claims \u2013 is intended to make your eyes glaze over. But its bureaucratic clothing disguises the government\u2019s naked ambition: to grab as much of indigenous peoples\u2019 land as possible.This is what dispossession by negotiation looks like. The government demands that First Nations trade away \u2013 or in the original term, to \u201cextinguish\u201d \u2013 their rights to 95% of their traditional territory. Their return is some money and small parcels of land, but insidiously, as private property, instead of in the collective way that indigenous peoples have long held and stewarded it. And First Nations need to provide costly, exhaustive proof of their rights to their own land, for which they have amassed a stunning $700 million in debt \u2013 a debt the government doesn\u2019t think twice about using to arm-twist.Despite the pressure, most First Nations have not yet signed their names to these crooked deals \u2013 especially when the supreme court is simultaneously directing the government to reconcile with First Nations and share the land. But the supreme court\u2019s confirmation that this approach is unconstitutional and illegal matters little to the government. What enables them to flout their own legal system is that Canadians remain scarcely aware of it.Acting without public scrutiny, prime minister Stephen Harper is trying to shore up support for this policy \u2013 now 40 years old \u2013 to finally secure the elimination of indigenous land rights. The process is led by the same man, Douglas Eyford, who has been Harper\u2019s advisor on getting tar sands pipelines and energy projects built in western Canada. That is no coincidence. The government is growing more desperate to remove the biggest obstacle that stands in the way of a corporate bonanza for dirty fossil fuels: the unceded aboriginal title of First Nations \u2013 backed now by the supreme court of Canada.A public commenting period opened during the government\u2019s pr blitz has created an opportunity for the indigenous rights movement and concerned Canadians to demand a long-overdue change in the government\u2019s behaviour. Recognising aboriginal title, restoring lands to First Nations management, would be to embrace the diversity and vision we desperately need in this moment of ecological and economic crisis.Because the government agenda is not just about extinguishing indigenous land rights. It\u2019s about extinguishing another way of seeing the world. About extinguishing economic models that prize interdependence with the living world, that recognise prosperity isn\u2019t secured by the endless depletion of resources. And about extinguishing a love for the land, a love rooted in the unique boundaries and beauty of a place.\u201cThe land is the most important thing,\u201d Tsilhqot\u2019in chief Roger William told me. \u201cOur songs, our place names, our history, our stories \u2013 they come from the land that we are a part of. All of it is interrelated with who we are.\u201dThe few days I spent in Tsilhqot\u2019in territory five years ago made that vivid. It is a land of snow-capped mountains \u2013 Ts\u2019il-os, who in their stories was a man transformed into giant rock after separating from his wife. Wild horses stalk the valleys. Salmon smoke on drying racks. The Tsilhqot\u2019in carefully protect and nurture these fish \u2013 running stronger in their rivers than anywhere else in the province.That\u2019s why the habit of government officials, of media and even of supreme court judges to call the Tsilhqoti\u2019in \u201cnomadic\u201d bothers William so much: his people have lived on these lands for thousands of years, while it is non-natives who are constantly moving and resettling. And what could be more nomadic and transient than the extractive industry itself \u2013 grabbing what resources and profits it can before abandoning one area for another.As Canadians look more closely, they are discovering that the unceded status of vast territories across this country is not a threat, as they\u2019ve long been told. It is a tremendous gift, protected with love by indigenous nations over generations, to be seized for the possibilities it now offers for governing the land in a radically more just and sustainable way for everyone.In this battle between the love of the land and a drive for its destruction, those behind the extractive economy have everything to lose and indigenous peoples everything to win. The rest of us, depending on our stand, have a transformed country to gain.@Martin_Lukacs", "tags": ["Environment", "Land rights", "Indigenous peoples", "Fossil fuels", "Canada", "Law"], "title": "The indigenous land rights ruling that could transform Canada  | Martin Lukacs"},{"date": "2014-10-11T23:00:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The idea of tomato wine may not sound appealing, but many a sommelier has taken Canada\u2019s Omerto Sec for a crisp sauvignon blanc.In picturesque countryside near Quebec City, Pascale Miche runs Omerto, the world\u2019s only commercial producer of aperitif tomato wine.Rather than the green and purple grapes you\u2019ll find on a typical vineyard, fruits of blushy pink and scarlet cover the landscape.Originally from Belgium, Miche inherited his vin de tomate recipe from his grandfather, who, in an effort to avoid waste during the first world war, turned his excess tomatoes into wine.Miche experimented with dozens of heirloom varieties and settled on two blends, sec (the one that tastes like sauvignon blanc and is perfect as an aperitif) and moelleux (like a white port, with a hint of cherry tomato, great with seafood), each using six types of tomato. The process is the same as with wine: the fruit is crushed, fermented with yeast, and bottled.Because tomatoes lack tannins, Omerto wines have the soft, golden hue of traditional whites, with flavours that imitate them as well. You can visit for a tour and tasting \u2013 or order online for a dinner party tipple with a difference.\u2022 domainevb.caLindsay Anderson is co-creator of FEAST: an Edible Road Trip", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Wine", "Life and style", "Food and drink", "Food & drink"], "title": "The foodie traveller in Canada: glass of tomato wine anyone? \r\n"},{"date": "2014-10-01T16:53:17Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has switched on the first large-scale coal-fired power plant fitted with a technology that proponents say enables the burning of fossil fuels without tipping the world into a climate catastrophe.The project, the first commercial-scale plant equipped with carbon capture and storage technology, was held up by the coal industry as a real life example that it is possible to go on burning the dirtiest of fossil fuels while avoiding dangerous global warming.Saskatchewan\u2019s state-owned electricity provider is due to cut the ribbon on the $1.3 billion Canadian project on Thursday. But officials from SaskPower International Inc told guests invited to the ceremony the 110 megawatt plant went live on Tuesday night.The Boundary Dam power plant promises to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 90% by trapping C02 underground before the gas reaches the atmosphere \u2013 making its opening a milestone in the coal industry\u2019s efforts to remain viable in a low-carbon economy.The company said the project would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by about 1 million tons a year, or the equivalent of taking 250,000 cars off the road, in one of the more fossil fuel-dependent regions of Canada.Captured CO2 from the Boundary Dam project will be pumped underground and sold to the Cenovus oil company for use in priming nearby oil fields, or buried in geological formations.\u201cSaskatchewan is number one in the world,\u201d said Brad Page, the chief executive of the Global CCS Institute, said. \u201cThis is an incredibly important event from our perspective.\u201dScientists from the United Nations climate panel said last year that without broad deployment of CCS technology most of the world\u2019s fossil fuel will have to stay in the ground to avoid dangerous climate change. Page was cautious however in predicting CCS technology deployed at Boundary Dam would soon be replicated on a large-scale. He noted the Saskatchewan plant relies on a local source of coal \u2013 and on selling on the CO2 to the oil industry \u2013 to keep it in the black. Coal also faces intense competition from historically low prices for natural gas, which makes it prohibitively expensive to build new coal plants with CCS.Even so, the opening of Boundary Dam represents a rare success story for the CCS industry. The technology has not been fully embraced by the big US coal companies \u2013 which are still focused on opposing incoming power plant rules from the Environmental Protection Agency.CCS is also viewed with deep suspicion by environmental campaigners because its economic viability - so far - depends on using the CO2 to increase oil production, and because it is more expensive than renewable sources of energs.The technology of carbon capture and storage has been around for years. \u201cThis is not a moonshot,\u201d Ian Yeates, the SaskPower executive in charge of CCS, told the Guardian earlier this year. But projects combining power generation and CCS have faced long delays and cost overruns, and run into criticism for receiving government subsidies. A number have been scuttled altogether because of competition from historically low prices for natural gas.In Mississippi, Southern Company has spent more than $5.5 bn over the last six years trying to bring a new-built CCS project, the Kemper County Energy Facility, into operation. The opening is now delayed until mid-2015. Only one other CCS project involving power generation is currently on the boards in the US, in Texas.Boundary Dam claimed its cost over-runs had nothing to do with the CCS technology, but in other construction issues involved in overhauling a 50-year-old power plant. Officials also said they were confident they could bring in the next such CCS project 25% cheaper.The plant received some CAD$240m in subsidies.But Yeates acknowledged that at this point the viability of the technology depended on having a nearby source of coal and an additional revenue stream from the enhanced oil recovery. \u201cI think at this stage of the game, because the concept is so new, having a revenue stream from the CO2 is critical to help the economics. But I think eventually that will not be required,\u201d he said.He said the company had seen a lot of interest in the CCS plant from China, India and other places which have large quantities of similar lignite coal. \u201cThere are 7,000 coal-fired turbines on the planet right now and they are not going to be turned off any time soon because people need the energy they produce,\u201d Yeates said. \u201cIs there going to be enough gas to replace all those units? We are going to be burning fossil fuels as a world economy for many many decades if not a century or two as energy demands grow...something like carbon capture and sequestration will be of value to deal with that.\u201dProf Stuart Haszeldine, director of Scottish Carbon Capture & Storage, said: \u201cBoundary Dam is working proof for naysayers, including the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, that full-scale CCS on power generation now exists and works commercially to deliver electricity, with no subsidy.\u201d He claimed the plant\u2019s opening would \u201ccreate ripples worldwide.\u201d", "tags": ["Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Environment", "Coal", "Canada", "World news", "Americas", "Climate change", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "Canada switches on world's first carbon capture power plant"},{"date": "2014-12-27T07:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Every wayfarer instinctively understands that travel can take them to a wonderful world of extraordinary adventure and education. The town of Churchill, on the shore of Hudson Bay in Manitoba, northern Canada, is a destination which I consider one of the photographic capitals of the world. This trip rewired my brain into thinking of ways to push my photography to the next level.I stayed at Lazy Bear Lodge in Churchill, which arranged a full itinerary. The tundra tour took us deep into the wilderness, where I saw attractions, such as the wrecks of the Miss Piggy, a 1979 freight plane, and the mysterious MV Ithaca. These subjects have disrupted the beauty of the Churchill countryside and can now be used to develop some creative images.The experienced guides from Lazy Bear Lodge made me feel like I was part of Canada\u2019s chronicle. I learned all about the town\u2019s colourful and tragic history. I followed in the footsteps of Sir John Franklin, the intrepid sailor who battled for years through treacherous seas and freak weather conditions in search of the Northwest Passage. On the water, I explored Hudson Bay, seeking out the polar bears frolicking in the rocks along the water\u2019s edge, and kayaked among the beluga whales which congregate in their thousands at the mouth of the Churchill river. As a scuba diver and underwater photographer, the highlight of my trip was to swim with beluga whales and photograph wildlife I would otherwise never have experienced, such as snowy owls and huskies.The trip gave my photography a new perspective and brought me experiences that will remain with me for a lifetime.\u2022 The prize, organised by the Canadian Tourism Commission, was a six-night trip to Churchill, Canada, on Lazy Bear Lodge\u2019s Ultimate Arctic Summer Adventure (lazybearlodge.com/tours). More information about holidays in Canada at keepexploring.ca\u2022 superjolly.com", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Travel photography", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel photography competition:  winners' trip to Canada"},{"date": "2014-11-24T10:16:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, from Katherine Stansfield\u2019s lively first collection, Playing House, has some of the restless vocal complexity of a Baroque fugue. A more obvious literary relative would be the sestina. In fact, Canada seems to adapt a few sestina-like techniques, while firmly announcing that, no, it\u2019s not a sestina, nor would wish to be. For a start, there are five rather than six-and-a-half stanzas, each with seven lines rather than six: the lines vary in length so, visually, the poem has an un-sestina-like rugged (mountainous?) outline. It sings more than most sestinas. But both fugue and sestina are forms constrained by fixed rules of repetition. Canada has multiple repetands, but no obvious symmetrical plot for their appearance (unless sharper ears than mine can discern one).The patterns flow and change. For example, some form of the verb, to run, appears in every stanza, in lines two, seven, five, one, six, whereas the forms of pine, which features both as noun (\u201cpines\u201d as in pine-trees) and verb (\u201cpining\u201d) appear in lines three, four, five, four, four. The first line of the first stanza comes back as the last, with a new grammatical twist \u2013 but that twist, involving a full-stop and a single word beginning a new sentence, stops short of becoming a repeated last-line device. The random element seems important, in keeping with the organic nature of the imagery. Words and meanings are at liberty to dissolve like snow, or maintain their shape for longer, like rock.One of the key-words, spool, and its derivations, perhaps best describes this fluid, cinematic process. Canada, the poem\u2019s addressee and imagined place, is recreated from deliberately stereotypical characteristics \u2013 pines, lakes, snow, etc \u2013 but not locked into definition. It\u2019s unmappable \u2013 a land both out there and inside the speaker. It spools away and is drawn back and around that consciousness. Although the observation \u201cno one comes\u201d is a major repeating motif, the speaker seems less an isolated figure than one whose being (head, hands, bones, heartbeats) is assimilated into and by the landscape: \u201cThe lakes are my hands/ running into the heart, into bone \u2026 \u201d The descriptive writing may border on the surreal, as here, or attain vivid metaphorical presence, as when \u201cwinter snows the lakes/ to rock\u201d or rock becomes \u201cthe bone of land\u201d. It\u2019s always unexpected, potent, and sparked by compression and juxtaposition.There are many subtle and enjoyable word-shifts. I like the compounds, \u201cLake//forest\u201d, \u201cbone-beaten\u201d and \u201csnow-muddy\u201d (a verb), and the use of \u201ckeep\u201d as a noun in the seventh line, stanza four. Passive and active voices of the verb (\u201csee\u201d, \u201cseen\u201d, \u201cbeat\u201d, \u201cbeaten\u201d) help merge place and poet. \u201cSpool\u201d becomes \u201cPool\u201d in the second line of the last stanza, where it might be the verb of a command, or a noun suggesting a pool reflecting heart, bones and hands. Dualism is a constant feature: blackness and snow, rock and muddiness, shadows and bones, land and lake, head and heart, stasis and flow.Canada is surely a love poem. The speaker declares strong emotions, and is concerned with charting them in a form that denotes obsession. As a troubadour-poet permits his mistress to set ice and fire at raging war inside him, Stansfield\u2019s persona is permissive, willing to be subjugated to the linguistic icons that mean \u201cCanada\u201d. Petrarch spooled tireless love poems to Laura, a woman he\u2019d apparently seen only once: the concept of inspiration by the unseen and unavailable is a deeply engrained tradition in western poetry. Here, \u201cI\u2019ve never seen you\u201d is a statement unpicked and disproven: the poem conjures a suspicion that literal \u201cnot-seeing\u201d may be crucial to imagination\u2019s inner sight. Not unlike Petrarch\u2019s Laura, Wordsworth\u2019s daffodils, flashing \u201cupon that inward eye\u201d, were not only re-seen. They were seen as if they could see the poet.The power of the transitive use of \u201cruns\u201d reinforces that thought. Canada \u201cruns\u201d the speakers heart in the beginning, \u201cbut not bone\u201d. At the end, Canada\u2019s forest \u201cruns\u201d the speaker\u2019s head, which is both bone and softer tissue. Perhaps the most important repeated motif, \u201cNo one comes\u201d, ends the poem on a note of bleakness. In a projected movement away from sensation and emotion, the idealised \u201cforest, shadowed muddy, black as winter\u201d finally, perhaps, begins to disappear.CanadaI\u2019ve never seen you.In my head you run from mein a spool: winter lakes pining for night,blackened snow, muddy as shadow.No one comes. In the heart of your forest I beatmy hands on rock, on the bone of landI\u2019ve never seen. Yourun the heart, but not bone.No one comes. The forest is blackand muddies rock. Shadows never beatmy head but in winter. I\u2019ve seen pines spoolingnight from your land like snow.The lakes are my handsrunning into the heart, into bonethough winter snows the lakesto rock. In the black forestheartbeats spool shadows. Do yousee? No one comes. Nightand the bones in the pines run muddy.My head is never a land insidethough winter snows. Lakeforest, keep runninginto the land shadowed by my head.You spool rock and bone-beaten hearts. I see pines snow-muddythe black of the lakes.No one comes. Never. Winteris the forest keep. Running,no one comes.Pool to see my heart, bones, hands,beaten by the land and the lakes and the rocksand the pines and the snow I\u2019ve never seen.At night, shadowed muddy, black as winter,your forest runs my head.No one comes.", "tags": ["Poetry", "Books"], "title": "Poem of the week: Canada by Katherine Stansfield"},{"date": "2014-11-17T01:26:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada \u2013 one of the few countries previously in line with Australia\u2019s opposition to the international Green Climate Fund \u2013 now appears to have changed its mind, with Tony Abbott\u2019s close friend prime minister Stephen Harper saying he is preparing to make a contribution.Abbott has defied global pressure to commit to the fund, designed to help poor countries adapt to climate change, because Australia is already spending $2.5bn on its domestic Direct Action fund and providing $10bn in capital to a so-called \u201cgreen bank\u201d \u2013 which he is trying to abolish.World leaders forced Australia to include stronger language about the Green Climate Fund in the G20 communique \u2013 and during the summit Barack Obama pledged the US would contribute $3bn to it and the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, offered $1.5bn. But soon after the conference was over Abbott indicated it would make no immediate difference to Australia\u2019s position.On Sunday Harper said Canada was preparing to make a contribution to the UN fund, the Globe and Mail and other Canadian media outlets reported. He did not nominate an amount.Last November, Abbott and Harper \u201cmade history\u201d by jointly dissenting from support for the Green Climate Fund in a communique from the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting.Speaking after a meeting on Sunday night with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, Abbott said Direct Action \u2013 which funds Australia\u2019s domestic emissions reduction, not international efforts \u2013 was already \u201cquite a substantial fund\u201d. He also cited the Clean Energy Finance Corporation, which he is committed to abolish.\u201cWe also have a Clean Energy Finance Corporation which was established by the former government and there is $10bn in capital which has been allocated to this,\u201d he said. \u201cIn addition to those two funds a proportion of our overseas aid, particularly in the Pacific, is allocated for various environmental schemes including schemes to deal with climate change. So, we are doing a very great deal and I suppose given what we are doing we don\u2019t intend, at this time, to do more.\u201dEnvironment minister Greg Hunt tried to compare Obama\u2019s $3bn commitment to the international fund to be spent in poor countries with Australia\u2019s $2.5bn spending on its own domestic policy, saying that if the Direct Action fund was implemented in the US \u201con a like for like basis it would be the equivalent of a $25bn fund\u201d.Neither Abbott nor Hunt ruled out making a contribution to the fund at some time in the future and it is understood the Department of Foreign Affairs, which leads Australia\u2019s international climate negotiations, has been considering a donation. The fund is seen as a critical part of a successful outcome at the United Nations Paris conference next year, which will discuss a global emissions pact to take effect after 2020.But Abbott\u2019s trenchant opposition to the fund is seen as an impediment to any contribution. He has publicly disparaged it as an international \u201cBob Brown bank\u201d \u2013 another reference to the CEFC, which he wants to abolish but he also cites as evidence of Australia\u2019s climate action.As revealed by Guardian Australia, Abbott told world leaders at the Brisbane summit that as the leader of a major coal producer he would be \u201cstanding up for coal\u201d.The communique references demanded by other leaders, including Obama, were reluctantly accepted by Australia at the last minute. They included a call for contributions to the fund and for the \u201cphasing out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies\u201d.An EU spokesman reportedly described the climate negotiations with Australia as being like \u201ctrench warfare\u201d. Other officials said it had been \u201cvery difficult\u201d and protracted.Speaking to the media after the summit, Abbott downplayed the importance of the fund. He took a similar line on the greenhouse reduction pledges unveiled by Obama and the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, immediately before the summit.He said all nations \u201csupport strong action \u2026 to address climate change\u201d, but added: \u201cWe are all going to approach this in our own way and there are a range of [climate] funds which are there.\u201dObama and the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, both urged G20 countries to contribute to the Green Climate Fund. In the end, at Australia\u2019s insistence, the communique called for contributions to financing funds \u201csuch as the Green Climate Fund\u201d.Hunt suggested a regional rainforest fund, to which Australia recently pledged $6m, could substitute for contributions to the Green Climate Fund.", "tags": ["Climate change", "G20 Brisbane 2014", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Tony Abbott", "Coal", "Coalition", "Australia news", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "G20", "Australian politics", "Ban Ki-moon", "Greg Hunt", "Shinzo Abe", "Brisbane"], "title": "Canada breaks with Australia to contribute to Green Climate Fund"},{"date": "2014-10-23T19:56:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government indicated on Thursday that it intends to speed up proposals to toughen the country\u2019s anti-terror laws in the wake of the attack on parliament in Ottawa, including a measure that would allow \u201cpreventative detention\u201d.As the House of Commons opened to rapturous applause for the sergeant-at-arms, the ceremonial security chief who prevented further tragedy by apparently killing the perpetrator of Wednesday\u2019s brazen assault, prime minister Stephen Harper indicated that his government was resolved to toughen the country\u2019s security legislation.The governing Conservatives have made no secret of their plan to install new anti-terror powers, giving the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) more powers to track, investigative and detain would-be homegrown terrorists. Harper promised the proposals would be brought forward.\u201cThey need to be much strengthened, and I assure you, Mr Speaker, that work which is already under way will be expedited,\u201d Mr Harper said.Details of those new powers have yet to be released, but justice minister Peter MacKay indicated to reporters that they will include measures to allow the preventive detention of suspected would-be terrorists.\u201cWe\u2019re examining all those sections of the criminal code, and all measures under the law that will allow us, in some instances, to take pre-emptive measures,\u201d he said.When asked about the schedule for the new legislation, government House leader\u200e Peter Van Loan refused to say exactly when a bill would come forward, acknowledging only that Wednesday\u2019s events had changed the context. A security bill, was originally due to be tabled on Wednesday morning.The Harper government contends that Canada\u2019s security agencies, tasked with thwarting attacks, are demanding greater powers, arguing that the current arrangements for judicial oversight hampers their ability to deal with imminent threats.But despite the cross-party show of unity and defiance on Thursday, opposition parties are warning that the government, in the wake of the Ottawa attack, is rushing to adopt expansive new spying powers without considering the consequences.The leader of the official opposition party, the New Democrats, Thomas Mulcair, said that one act of terrorism should not bend the Canadian way, nor should it even hamper the weekly yoga class that takes place on the front lawn of Parliament \u2013 a symbol, he said, of the openness of the Canadian legislature.\u201cWe cannot allow that openness and freedom to be rolled back either,\u201d he said.The Liberal party leader, Justin Trudeau, said those who attack Canada \u201cwill not make the rules about this land we share and they will not get to change us\u201d.Harper acknowledged the strain that Wednesday\u2019s events put on the capital, calling it \u201cbeyond and above anything that any of us are really expecting to face\u201d.But amid the determination and effort to return to normality, there was tight security in the downtown area \u2013 unusual for Ottawa. A security permitter around Parliament Hill meant that only a small number of staffers, parliamentarians and journalists were permitted through, and only at one checkpoint. Cordoned-off streets meant a headache for commuters.Despite the contentious debate on how to respond to the threat of domestic terrorism, the political parties were unified in their tribute to the sergeant-at-arms, Kevin Vickers, who was given a prolonged standing ovation at the opening of the parliamentary session.But Vickers was keen to praise his colleagues. \u201cDuring extraordinary circumstances, security personnel demonstrated professionalism and courage,\u201d he said in a statement. \u201cI am grateful and proud to be part of this team.\u201dReports emerged on Thursday that Vickers, after killing the shooter, rushed to a nearby room, where the Harper was meeting with his caucus, to ensure the prime minister\u2019s security.", "tags": ["Canada", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Gun crime", "Americas"], "title": "Canada considers 'preventative detention' in wake of Ottawa attack"},{"date": "2014-10-23T05:40:36Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Australian political leaders have said they stand \u201cshoulder to shoulder with our Canadian comrades in defiance and resolution\u201d after a gunman\u2019s attack on a soldier and on the parliament in Ottawa.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, described the infiltration of the Canadian legislature as \u201can affront to this parliament, too\u201d and the opposition leader, Bill Shorten, reaffirmed his intention to give bipartisan support to the Australian government\u2019s counter-terrorism laws.Australian authorities are reviewing security measures at public buildings, including Parliament House, and military sites after the dramatic events in the Canadian capital on Wednesday. A soldier guarding the Canadian war memorial in Ottawa was shot dead and a gunman then stormed the nearby parliament before being killed by a parliamentary official.Abbott and Shorten expressed solidarity with Canada at the beginning of question time on Thursday, with the Canadian high commissioner to Australia in attendance.Australians, the prime minister said, felt Canada\u2019s \u201cshock, pain and anger\u201d.\u201cI have been in their parliament, I have been at their war memorial. So many of us have,\u201d Abbott said.\u201cI regard Stephen Harper, their prime minister, as a friend and almost a brother. So an attack on their parliament is an affront to this parliament, too.\u201cToday, we stand shoulder to shoulder with our Canadian comrades in defiance and resolution. We stand for freedom and for the right of all people in all places to choose their way of life and their way of worship. We always have, and we always will.\u201dAbbott said the events were a reminder that \u201cthe terrorist threat to our people, our institutions and to our way of life\u201d was real.He noted that Canada and Australia both had to confront the problem of some of their citizens travelling to Iraq and Syria to join groups such as Islamic State (Isis). Shorten said his thoughts were with the family of Corporal Nathan Cirillo, the Canadian army reservist killed while standing watch at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, and for the parliamentary guard recovering in hospital.\u201cThe footage that has rolled across our television screens today captures something of the fear and confusion that gripped all of the innocent people in the Canadian parliament and those paying their respects at the Canadian war memorial,\u201d Shorten said.Shorten said Australians would feel affected by the events \u201cbut today should not be cause for fear\u201d. He said Australia\u2019s parliament, war memorial and public buildings must remain open to the public because they belonged to the people.The justice minister, Michael Keenan, said authorities had increased security, including the decision six weeks ago to deploy armed police officers inside and outside Parliament House and improve tactical response capabilities.The foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, said when she contacted the Canadian foreign affairs minister, John Baird, early on Thursday, he said he had been just metres from the gunman, and was still barricaded within the parliament building.Bishop said Canada, like Australia, was part of the international coalition fighting against Isis in Iraq. \u201cThe chilling video of a young 17-year-old Australian threatening his country as he takes up arms with [Isis] shows that we must take immediate steps, a strong response to counter this threat.\u201dBishop said she had cancelled about 70 Australian passports on the grounds that the holder posed a security risk. She said forthcoming legislation would allow her to suspend passports.The government\u2019s second stage of national security changes, known as the foreign fighters bill, is scheduled for parliamentary debate and a vote next week.Labor appears likely to support the bill, having voted last month in favour of the government\u2019s previous bill expanding security agency powers and criminalising disclosure of special intelligence operations.Shorten said on Thursday: \u201cWhen it comes to fighting terrorism, we are in this together. It is important that we have a bipartisan approach \u2013 we have and we do.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Bill Shorten", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Ottawa shooting: Australian leaders 'shoulder to shoulder' with Canada"},{"date": "2014-10-21T13:27:45Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The unrest is palpable. In First Nations across Canada, word is spreading of a historic court ruling recognizing Indigenous land rights. And the murmurs are turning to action: an eviction notice issued to a railway company in British Columbia; a park occupied in Vancouver; lawsuits launched against the Enbridge tar sands pipeline; a government deal reconsidered by Ontario Algonquins; and sovereignty declared by the Atikamekw in Quebec.These First Nations have been emboldened by this summer\u2019s Supreme Court of Canada William decision, which recognized the aboriginal title of the Tsilhqot\u2019in nation to 1,750 sq km of their land in central British Columbia \u2013 not outright ownership, but the right to use and manage the land and to reap its economic benefits.The ruling affects all \u201cunceded\u201d territory in Canada \u2013 those lands never signed away through a treaty or conquered by war. Which means that over an enormous land mass \u2013 most of British Columbia, large parts of Quebec and Atlantic Canada, and a number of other spots \u2013 a new legal landscape is emerging that offers the prospect of much more responsible land stewardship.First Nations are starting to act accordingly, and none more so than the Tsilhqot\u2019in. They\u2019ve declared a tribal park over a swath of their territory. And they\u2019ve announced their own policy on mining \u2013 a vision that leaves room for its possibility, but on much more strict environmental terms. Earlier this month they erected a totem pole to overlook a sacred area where copper and gold miner Taseko has for years been controversially attempting to establish itself; no mine will ever be built there.And the Canadian government\u2019s response? Far from embracing these newly recognised indigenous land rights, they are trying to accelerate their elimination. The court has definitively told Canada to accept the reality of aboriginal title: the government is doing everything in its power to deny it.Canadians can be pardoned for believing that when the country\u2019s highest court renders a decision, the government clicks their heels and sets themselves to implementing it. The judiciary directs, the executive branch follows: that\u2019s how we\u2019re taught it works. But it doesn\u2019t always \u2013 and especially not when what\u2019s at stake is the land at the heart of Canada\u2019s resource extraction.The new land rights ruling is now clashing directly with the Canadian government\u2019s method for cementing their grip on land and resources. It\u2019s a negotiating policy whose name \u2013 the so-called Comprehensive Land Claims \u2013 is intended to make your eyes glaze over. But its bureaucratic clothing disguises the government\u2019s naked ambition: to grab as much of indigenous peoples\u2019 land as possible.This is what dispossession by negotiation looks like. The government demands that First Nations trade away \u2013 or in the original term, to \u201cextinguish\u201d \u2013 their rights to 95% of their traditional territory. Their return is some money and small parcels of land, but insidiously, as private property, instead of in the collective way that indigenous peoples have long held and stewarded it. And First Nations need to provide costly, exhaustive proof of their rights to their own land, for which they have amassed a stunning $700 million in debt \u2013 a debt the government doesn\u2019t think twice about using to arm-twist.Despite the pressure, most First Nations have not yet signed their names to these crooked deals \u2013 especially when the supreme court is simultaneously directing the government to reconcile with First Nations and share the land. But the supreme court\u2019s confirmation that this approach is unconstitutional and illegal matters little to the government. What enables them to flout their own legal system is that Canadians remain scarcely aware of it.Acting without public scrutiny, prime minister Stephen Harper is trying to shore up support for this policy \u2013 now 40 years old \u2013 to finally secure the elimination of indigenous land rights. The process is led by the same man, Douglas Eyford, who has been Harper\u2019s advisor on getting tar sands pipelines and energy projects built in western Canada. That is no coincidence. The government is growing more desperate to remove the biggest obstacle that stands in the way of a corporate bonanza for dirty fossil fuels: the unceded aboriginal title of First Nations \u2013 backed now by the supreme court of Canada.A public commenting period opened during the government\u2019s pr blitz has created an opportunity for the indigenous rights movement and concerned Canadians to demand a long-overdue change in the government\u2019s behaviour. Recognising aboriginal title, restoring lands to First Nations management, would be to embrace the diversity and vision we desperately need in this moment of ecological and economic crisis.Because the government agenda is not just about extinguishing indigenous land rights. It\u2019s about extinguishing another way of seeing the world. About extinguishing economic models that prize interdependence with the living world, that recognise prosperity isn\u2019t secured by the endless depletion of resources. And about extinguishing a love for the land, a love rooted in the unique boundaries and beauty of a place.\u201cThe land is the most important thing,\u201d Tsilhqot\u2019in chief Roger William told me. \u201cOur songs, our place names, our history, our stories \u2013 they come from the land that we are a part of. All of it is interrelated with who we are.\u201dThe few days I spent in Tsilhqot\u2019in territory five years ago made that vivid. It is a land of snow-capped mountains \u2013 Ts\u2019il-os, who in their stories was a man transformed into giant rock after separating from his wife. Wild horses stalk the valleys. Salmon smoke on drying racks. The Tsilhqot\u2019in carefully protect and nurture these fish \u2013 running stronger in their rivers than anywhere else in the province.That\u2019s why the habit of government officials, of media and even of supreme court judges to call the Tsilhqoti\u2019in \u201cnomadic\u201d bothers William so much: his people have lived on these lands for thousands of years, while it is non-natives who are constantly moving and resettling. And what could be more nomadic and transient than the extractive industry itself \u2013 grabbing what resources and profits it can before abandoning one area for another.As Canadians look more closely, they are discovering that the unceded status of vast territories across this country is not a threat, as they\u2019ve long been told. It is a tremendous gift, protected with love by indigenous nations over generations, to be seized for the possibilities it now offers for governing the land in a radically more just and sustainable way for everyone.In this battle between the love of the land and a drive for its destruction, those behind the extractive economy have everything to lose and indigenous peoples everything to win. The rest of us, depending on our stand, have a transformed country to gain.@Martin_Lukacs", "tags": ["Environment", "Land rights", "Indigenous peoples", "Fossil fuels", "Canada", "Law"], "title": "The indigenous land rights ruling that could transform Canada  | Martin Lukacs"},{"date": "2014-10-11T23:00:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The idea of tomato wine may not sound appealing, but many a sommelier has taken Canada\u2019s Omerto Sec for a crisp sauvignon blanc.In picturesque countryside near Quebec City, Pascale Miche runs Omerto, the world\u2019s only commercial producer of aperitif tomato wine.Rather than the green and purple grapes you\u2019ll find on a typical vineyard, fruits of blushy pink and scarlet cover the landscape.Originally from Belgium, Miche inherited his vin de tomate recipe from his grandfather, who, in an effort to avoid waste during the first world war, turned his excess tomatoes into wine.Miche experimented with dozens of heirloom varieties and settled on two blends, sec (the one that tastes like sauvignon blanc and is perfect as an aperitif) and moelleux (like a white port, with a hint of cherry tomato, great with seafood), each using six types of tomato. The process is the same as with wine: the fruit is crushed, fermented with yeast, and bottled.Because tomatoes lack tannins, Omerto wines have the soft, golden hue of traditional whites, with flavours that imitate them as well. You can visit for a tour and tasting \u2013 or order online for a dinner party tipple with a difference.\u2022 domainevb.caLindsay Anderson is co-creator of FEAST: an Edible Road Trip", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Wine", "Life and style", "Food and drink", "Food & drink"], "title": "The foodie traveller in Canada: glass of tomato wine anyone? \r\n"},{"date": "2014-10-01T16:53:17Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has switched on the first large-scale coal-fired power plant fitted with a technology that proponents say enables the burning of fossil fuels without tipping the world into a climate catastrophe.The project, the first commercial-scale plant equipped with carbon capture and storage technology, was held up by the coal industry as a real life example that it is possible to go on burning the dirtiest of fossil fuels while avoiding dangerous global warming.Saskatchewan\u2019s state-owned electricity provider is due to cut the ribbon on the $1.3 billion Canadian project on Thursday. But officials from SaskPower International Inc told guests invited to the ceremony the 110 megawatt plant went live on Tuesday night.The Boundary Dam power plant promises to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 90% by trapping C02 underground before the gas reaches the atmosphere \u2013 making its opening a milestone in the coal industry\u2019s efforts to remain viable in a low-carbon economy.The company said the project would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by about 1 million tons a year, or the equivalent of taking 250,000 cars off the road, in one of the more fossil fuel-dependent regions of Canada.Captured CO2 from the Boundary Dam project will be pumped underground and sold to the Cenovus oil company for use in priming nearby oil fields, or buried in geological formations.\u201cSaskatchewan is number one in the world,\u201d said Brad Page, the chief executive of the Global CCS Institute, said. \u201cThis is an incredibly important event from our perspective.\u201dScientists from the United Nations climate panel said last year that without broad deployment of CCS technology most of the world\u2019s fossil fuel will have to stay in the ground to avoid dangerous climate change. Page was cautious however in predicting CCS technology deployed at Boundary Dam would soon be replicated on a large-scale. He noted the Saskatchewan plant relies on a local source of coal \u2013 and on selling on the CO2 to the oil industry \u2013 to keep it in the black. Coal also faces intense competition from historically low prices for natural gas, which makes it prohibitively expensive to build new coal plants with CCS.Even so, the opening of Boundary Dam represents a rare success story for the CCS industry. The technology has not been fully embraced by the big US coal companies \u2013 which are still focused on opposing incoming power plant rules from the Environmental Protection Agency.CCS is also viewed with deep suspicion by environmental campaigners because its economic viability - so far - depends on using the CO2 to increase oil production, and because it is more expensive than renewable sources of energs.The technology of carbon capture and storage has been around for years. \u201cThis is not a moonshot,\u201d Ian Yeates, the SaskPower executive in charge of CCS, told the Guardian earlier this year. But projects combining power generation and CCS have faced long delays and cost overruns, and run into criticism for receiving government subsidies. A number have been scuttled altogether because of competition from historically low prices for natural gas.In Mississippi, Southern Company has spent more than $5.5 bn over the last six years trying to bring a new-built CCS project, the Kemper County Energy Facility, into operation. The opening is now delayed until mid-2015. Only one other CCS project involving power generation is currently on the boards in the US, in Texas.Boundary Dam claimed its cost over-runs had nothing to do with the CCS technology, but in other construction issues involved in overhauling a 50-year-old power plant. Officials also said they were confident they could bring in the next such CCS project 25% cheaper.The plant received some CAD$240m in subsidies.But Yeates acknowledged that at this point the viability of the technology depended on having a nearby source of coal and an additional revenue stream from the enhanced oil recovery. \u201cI think at this stage of the game, because the concept is so new, having a revenue stream from the CO2 is critical to help the economics. But I think eventually that will not be required,\u201d he said.He said the company had seen a lot of interest in the CCS plant from China, India and other places which have large quantities of similar lignite coal. \u201cThere are 7,000 coal-fired turbines on the planet right now and they are not going to be turned off any time soon because people need the energy they produce,\u201d Yeates said. \u201cIs there going to be enough gas to replace all those units? We are going to be burning fossil fuels as a world economy for many many decades if not a century or two as energy demands grow...something like carbon capture and sequestration will be of value to deal with that.\u201dProf Stuart Haszeldine, director of Scottish Carbon Capture & Storage, said: \u201cBoundary Dam is working proof for naysayers, including the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, that full-scale CCS on power generation now exists and works commercially to deliver electricity, with no subsidy.\u201d He claimed the plant\u2019s opening would \u201ccreate ripples worldwide.\u201d", "tags": ["Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Environment", "Coal", "Canada", "World news", "Americas", "Climate change", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "Canada switches on world's first carbon capture power plant"},{"date": "2014-11-28T16:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I don\u2019t remember the day this was taken, but I remember the next day. I was five years old and there was a lot of frantic running around, neighbours popping in and relatives calling when everyone realised my picture was on the front of the Vancouver Daily Province.Not long after, the authorities asked me to join the victory\u00a0bond drives in nearby war plants. Everyone would be given half an hour off, a group would perform the songs of the day, and at the end they would wheel out a\u00a0huge copy of this picture. I would come out in\u00a0my blazer and short pants (that my mother insisted I wear) and make a speech along the lines of, \u201cBuy a bond today and bring my daddy home\u201d.The photograph was picked up by Associated Press and then Life magazine featured it a couple of months later. This was 1940, before the US joined the war, so it was quite\u00a0something for the American public to see all these soldiers in Canada heading for\u00a0England.My father returned to Canada in 1945 after the war, but he did come home once in 1943 on compassionate leave. My parents\u2019 marriage did not survive the war and he was worried about me. He came back at Christmas; it wasn\u2019t a\u00a0happy time. He didn\u2019t stay with us, and as a kid I thought that was because he was in the army but it was because the marriage was over. This is one of the last pictures of my family\u00a0together.Dad then went back to England to\u00a0find his unit had been sent to Sicily, which was upsetting to him. But eventually he landed at Juno Beach on D-day and proceeded through to Germany at the end of the war. As he said, \u201cIn the end I\u00a0had\u00a0my war.\u201d The day my father came home, my grandfather took\u00a0me to the train station, and there was Dad. That was probably the happiest day in my 10-year-old life.For a long time the photograph was forgotten. It started to resurface on Remembrance Day in the mid-60s, and is often mentioned in the context of Canada\u2019s most popular pictures. The\u00a0city of New Westminster picked up on the fact that it was taken there and last month unveiled\u00a0a bronze statue of it as a memorial. There is also a stamp collection featuring it, as\u00a0well as a\u00a0$2 coin. Apparently, at 79, I am the only living person in Canada to be featured on a coin in circulation, alongside the Queen.At the unveiling of the statue, I\u00a0was overwhelmed by the emotion this photograph evokes. As one of the veterans present said, \u201cIt\u2019s not about war, and blood and guts, and\u00a0guns. It\u2019s about the families that\u00a0get left\u00a0behind.\u201d\u2022 Interview: Abigail RadnorAre you in a famous photograph? Email\u00a0thatsme@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Photography", "Art and design", "Second world war", "World news"], "title": "That\u2019s me in the picture: Warren Bernard in Wait For Me, Daddy, New Westminster, Canada, 1940"},{"date": "2014-12-27T07:00:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Every wayfarer instinctively understands that travel can take them to a wonderful world of extraordinary adventure and education. The town of Churchill, on the shore of Hudson Bay in Manitoba, northern Canada, is a destination which I consider one of the photographic capitals of the world. This trip rewired my brain into thinking of ways to push my photography to the next level.I stayed at Lazy Bear Lodge in Churchill, which arranged a full itinerary. The tundra tour took us deep into the wilderness, where I saw attractions, such as the wrecks of the Miss Piggy, a 1979 freight plane, and the mysterious MV Ithaca. These subjects have disrupted the beauty of the Churchill countryside and can now be used to develop some creative images.The experienced guides from Lazy Bear Lodge made me feel like I was part of Canada\u2019s chronicle. I learned all about the town\u2019s colourful and tragic history. I followed in the footsteps of Sir John Franklin, the intrepid sailor who battled for years through treacherous seas and freak weather conditions in search of the Northwest Passage. On the water, I explored Hudson Bay, seeking out the polar bears frolicking in the rocks along the water\u2019s edge, and kayaked among the beluga whales which congregate in their thousands at the mouth of the Churchill river. As a scuba diver and underwater photographer, the highlight of my trip was to swim with beluga whales and photograph wildlife I would otherwise never have experienced, such as snowy owls and huskies.The trip gave my photography a new perspective and brought me experiences that will remain with me for a lifetime.\u2022 The prize, organised by the Canadian Tourism Commission, was a six-night trip to Churchill, Canada, on Lazy Bear Lodge\u2019s Ultimate Arctic Summer Adventure (lazybearlodge.com/tours). More information about holidays in Canada at keepexploring.ca\u2022 superjolly.com", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "Travel photography", "Wildlife holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Readers' travel photography competition:  winners' trip to Canada"},{"date": "2014-11-24T10:16:03Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada, from Katherine Stansfield\u2019s lively first collection, Playing House, has some of the restless vocal complexity of a Baroque fugue. A more obvious literary relative would be the sestina. In fact, Canada seems to adapt a few sestina-like techniques, while firmly announcing that, no, it\u2019s not a sestina, nor would wish to be. For a start, there are five rather than six-and-a-half stanzas, each with seven lines rather than six: the lines vary in length so, visually, the poem has an un-sestina-like rugged (mountainous?) outline. It sings more than most sestinas. But both fugue and sestina are forms constrained by fixed rules of repetition. Canada has multiple repetands, but no obvious symmetrical plot for their appearance (unless sharper ears than mine can discern one).The patterns flow and change. For example, some form of the verb, to run, appears in every stanza, in lines two, seven, five, one, six, whereas the forms of pine, which features both as noun (\u201cpines\u201d as in pine-trees) and verb (\u201cpining\u201d) appear in lines three, four, five, four, four. The first line of the first stanza comes back as the last, with a new grammatical twist \u2013 but that twist, involving a full-stop and a single word beginning a new sentence, stops short of becoming a repeated last-line device. The random element seems important, in keeping with the organic nature of the imagery. Words and meanings are at liberty to dissolve like snow, or maintain their shape for longer, like rock.One of the key-words, spool, and its derivations, perhaps best describes this fluid, cinematic process. Canada, the poem\u2019s addressee and imagined place, is recreated from deliberately stereotypical characteristics \u2013 pines, lakes, snow, etc \u2013 but not locked into definition. It\u2019s unmappable \u2013 a land both out there and inside the speaker. It spools away and is drawn back and around that consciousness. Although the observation \u201cno one comes\u201d is a major repeating motif, the speaker seems less an isolated figure than one whose being (head, hands, bones, heartbeats) is assimilated into and by the landscape: \u201cThe lakes are my hands/ running into the heart, into bone \u2026 \u201d The descriptive writing may border on the surreal, as here, or attain vivid metaphorical presence, as when \u201cwinter snows the lakes/ to rock\u201d or rock becomes \u201cthe bone of land\u201d. It\u2019s always unexpected, potent, and sparked by compression and juxtaposition.There are many subtle and enjoyable word-shifts. I like the compounds, \u201cLake//forest\u201d, \u201cbone-beaten\u201d and \u201csnow-muddy\u201d (a verb), and the use of \u201ckeep\u201d as a noun in the seventh line, stanza four. Passive and active voices of the verb (\u201csee\u201d, \u201cseen\u201d, \u201cbeat\u201d, \u201cbeaten\u201d) help merge place and poet. \u201cSpool\u201d becomes \u201cPool\u201d in the second line of the last stanza, where it might be the verb of a command, or a noun suggesting a pool reflecting heart, bones and hands. Dualism is a constant feature: blackness and snow, rock and muddiness, shadows and bones, land and lake, head and heart, stasis and flow.Canada is surely a love poem. The speaker declares strong emotions, and is concerned with charting them in a form that denotes obsession. As a troubadour-poet permits his mistress to set ice and fire at raging war inside him, Stansfield\u2019s persona is permissive, willing to be subjugated to the linguistic icons that mean \u201cCanada\u201d. Petrarch spooled tireless love poems to Laura, a woman he\u2019d apparently seen only once: the concept of inspiration by the unseen and unavailable is a deeply engrained tradition in western poetry. Here, \u201cI\u2019ve never seen you\u201d is a statement unpicked and disproven: the poem conjures a suspicion that literal \u201cnot-seeing\u201d may be crucial to imagination\u2019s inner sight. Not unlike Petrarch\u2019s Laura, Wordsworth\u2019s daffodils, flashing \u201cupon that inward eye\u201d, were not only re-seen. They were seen as if they could see the poet.The power of the transitive use of \u201cruns\u201d reinforces that thought. Canada \u201cruns\u201d the speakers heart in the beginning, \u201cbut not bone\u201d. At the end, Canada\u2019s forest \u201cruns\u201d the speaker\u2019s head, which is both bone and softer tissue. Perhaps the most important repeated motif, \u201cNo one comes\u201d, ends the poem on a note of bleakness. In a projected movement away from sensation and emotion, the idealised \u201cforest, shadowed muddy, black as winter\u201d finally, perhaps, begins to disappear.CanadaI\u2019ve never seen you.In my head you run from mein a spool: winter lakes pining for night,blackened snow, muddy as shadow.No one comes. In the heart of your forest I beatmy hands on rock, on the bone of landI\u2019ve never seen. Yourun the heart, but not bone.No one comes. The forest is blackand muddies rock. Shadows never beatmy head but in winter. I\u2019ve seen pines spoolingnight from your land like snow.The lakes are my handsrunning into the heart, into bonethough winter snows the lakesto rock. In the black forestheartbeats spool shadows. Do yousee? No one comes. Nightand the bones in the pines run muddy.My head is never a land insidethough winter snows. Lakeforest, keep runninginto the land shadowed by my head.You spool rock and bone-beaten hearts. I see pines snow-muddythe black of the lakes.No one comes. Never. Winteris the forest keep. Running,no one comes.Pool to see my heart, bones, hands,beaten by the land and the lakes and the rocksand the pines and the snow I\u2019ve never seen.At night, shadowed muddy, black as winter,your forest runs my head.No one comes.", "tags": ["Poetry", "Books"], "title": "Poem of the week: Canada by Katherine Stansfield"},{"date": "2014-11-17T01:26:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada \u2013 one of the few countries previously in line with Australia\u2019s opposition to the international Green Climate Fund \u2013 now appears to have changed its mind, with Tony Abbott\u2019s close friend prime minister Stephen Harper saying he is preparing to make a contribution.Abbott has defied global pressure to commit to the fund, designed to help poor countries adapt to climate change, because Australia is already spending $2.5bn on its domestic Direct Action fund and providing $10bn in capital to a so-called \u201cgreen bank\u201d \u2013 which he is trying to abolish.World leaders forced Australia to include stronger language about the Green Climate Fund in the G20 communique \u2013 and during the summit Barack Obama pledged the US would contribute $3bn to it and the Japanese prime minister, Shinzo Abe, offered $1.5bn. But soon after the conference was over Abbott indicated it would make no immediate difference to Australia\u2019s position.On Sunday Harper said Canada was preparing to make a contribution to the UN fund, the Globe and Mail and other Canadian media outlets reported. He did not nominate an amount.Last November, Abbott and Harper \u201cmade history\u201d by jointly dissenting from support for the Green Climate Fund in a communique from the Commonwealth Heads of Government meeting.Speaking after a meeting on Sunday night with the German chancellor, Angela Merkel, Abbott said Direct Action \u2013 which funds Australia\u2019s domestic emissions reduction, not international efforts \u2013 was already \u201cquite a substantial fund\u201d. He also cited the Clean Energy Finance Corporation, which he is committed to abolish.\u201cWe also have a Clean Energy Finance Corporation which was established by the former government and there is $10bn in capital which has been allocated to this,\u201d he said. \u201cIn addition to those two funds a proportion of our overseas aid, particularly in the Pacific, is allocated for various environmental schemes including schemes to deal with climate change. So, we are doing a very great deal and I suppose given what we are doing we don\u2019t intend, at this time, to do more.\u201dEnvironment minister Greg Hunt tried to compare Obama\u2019s $3bn commitment to the international fund to be spent in poor countries with Australia\u2019s $2.5bn spending on its own domestic policy, saying that if the Direct Action fund was implemented in the US \u201con a like for like basis it would be the equivalent of a $25bn fund\u201d.Neither Abbott nor Hunt ruled out making a contribution to the fund at some time in the future and it is understood the Department of Foreign Affairs, which leads Australia\u2019s international climate negotiations, has been considering a donation. The fund is seen as a critical part of a successful outcome at the United Nations Paris conference next year, which will discuss a global emissions pact to take effect after 2020.But Abbott\u2019s trenchant opposition to the fund is seen as an impediment to any contribution. He has publicly disparaged it as an international \u201cBob Brown bank\u201d \u2013 another reference to the CEFC, which he wants to abolish but he also cites as evidence of Australia\u2019s climate action.As revealed by Guardian Australia, Abbott told world leaders at the Brisbane summit that as the leader of a major coal producer he would be \u201cstanding up for coal\u201d.The communique references demanded by other leaders, including Obama, were reluctantly accepted by Australia at the last minute. They included a call for contributions to the fund and for the \u201cphasing out of inefficient fossil fuel subsidies\u201d.An EU spokesman reportedly described the climate negotiations with Australia as being like \u201ctrench warfare\u201d. Other officials said it had been \u201cvery difficult\u201d and protracted.Speaking to the media after the summit, Abbott downplayed the importance of the fund. He took a similar line on the greenhouse reduction pledges unveiled by Obama and the Chinese president, Xi Jinping, immediately before the summit.He said all nations \u201csupport strong action \u2026 to address climate change\u201d, but added: \u201cWe are all going to approach this in our own way and there are a range of [climate] funds which are there.\u201dObama and the UN secretary general, Ban Ki-moon, both urged G20 countries to contribute to the Green Climate Fund. In the end, at Australia\u2019s insistence, the communique called for contributions to financing funds \u201csuch as the Green Climate Fund\u201d.Hunt suggested a regional rainforest fund, to which Australia recently pledged $6m, could substitute for contributions to the Green Climate Fund.", "tags": ["Climate change", "G20 Brisbane 2014", "Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Tony Abbott", "Coal", "Coalition", "Australia news", "Fossil fuels", "Energy", "G20", "Australian politics", "Ban Ki-moon", "Greg Hunt", "Shinzo Abe", "Brisbane"], "title": "Canada breaks with Australia to contribute to Green Climate Fund"},{"date": "2014-10-23T19:56:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The Canadian government indicated on Thursday that it intends to speed up proposals to toughen the country\u2019s anti-terror laws in the wake of the attack on parliament in Ottawa, including a measure that would allow \u201cpreventative detention\u201d.As the House of Commons opened to rapturous applause for the sergeant-at-arms, the ceremonial security chief who prevented further tragedy by apparently killing the perpetrator of Wednesday\u2019s brazen assault, prime minister Stephen Harper indicated that his government was resolved to toughen the country\u2019s security legislation.The governing Conservatives have made no secret of their plan to install new anti-terror powers, giving the Canadian Security Intelligence Service (CSIS) more powers to track, investigative and detain would-be homegrown terrorists. Harper promised the proposals would be brought forward.\u201cThey need to be much strengthened, and I assure you, Mr Speaker, that work which is already under way will be expedited,\u201d Mr Harper said.Details of those new powers have yet to be released, but justice minister Peter MacKay indicated to reporters that they will include measures to allow the preventive detention of suspected would-be terrorists.\u201cWe\u2019re examining all those sections of the criminal code, and all measures under the law that will allow us, in some instances, to take pre-emptive measures,\u201d he said.When asked about the schedule for the new legislation, government House leader\u200e Peter Van Loan refused to say exactly when a bill would come forward, acknowledging only that Wednesday\u2019s events had changed the context. A security bill, was originally due to be tabled on Wednesday morning.The Harper government contends that Canada\u2019s security agencies, tasked with thwarting attacks, are demanding greater powers, arguing that the current arrangements for judicial oversight hampers their ability to deal with imminent threats.But despite the cross-party show of unity and defiance on Thursday, opposition parties are warning that the government, in the wake of the Ottawa attack, is rushing to adopt expansive new spying powers without considering the consequences.The leader of the official opposition party, the New Democrats, Thomas Mulcair, said that one act of terrorism should not bend the Canadian way, nor should it even hamper the weekly yoga class that takes place on the front lawn of Parliament \u2013 a symbol, he said, of the openness of the Canadian legislature.\u201cWe cannot allow that openness and freedom to be rolled back either,\u201d he said.The Liberal party leader, Justin Trudeau, said those who attack Canada \u201cwill not make the rules about this land we share and they will not get to change us\u201d.Harper acknowledged the strain that Wednesday\u2019s events put on the capital, calling it \u201cbeyond and above anything that any of us are really expecting to face\u201d.But amid the determination and effort to return to normality, there was tight security in the downtown area \u2013 unusual for Ottawa. A security permitter around Parliament Hill meant that only a small number of staffers, parliamentarians and journalists were permitted through, and only at one checkpoint. Cordoned-off streets meant a headache for commuters.Despite the contentious debate on how to respond to the threat of domestic terrorism, the political parties were unified in their tribute to the sergeant-at-arms, Kevin Vickers, who was given a prolonged standing ovation at the opening of the parliamentary session.But Vickers was keen to praise his colleagues. \u201cDuring extraordinary circumstances, security personnel demonstrated professionalism and courage,\u201d he said in a statement. \u201cI am grateful and proud to be part of this team.\u201dReports emerged on Thursday that Vickers, after killing the shooter, rushed to a nearby room, where the Harper was meeting with his caucus, to ensure the prime minister\u2019s security.", "tags": ["Canada", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Gun crime", "Americas"], "title": "Canada considers 'preventative detention' in wake of Ottawa attack"},{"date": "2014-10-23T05:40:36Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Australian political leaders have said they stand \u201cshoulder to shoulder with our Canadian comrades in defiance and resolution\u201d after a gunman\u2019s attack on a soldier and on the parliament in Ottawa.The prime minister, Tony Abbott, described the infiltration of the Canadian legislature as \u201can affront to this parliament, too\u201d and the opposition leader, Bill Shorten, reaffirmed his intention to give bipartisan support to the Australian government\u2019s counter-terrorism laws.Australian authorities are reviewing security measures at public buildings, including Parliament House, and military sites after the dramatic events in the Canadian capital on Wednesday. A soldier guarding the Canadian war memorial in Ottawa was shot dead and a gunman then stormed the nearby parliament before being killed by a parliamentary official.Abbott and Shorten expressed solidarity with Canada at the beginning of question time on Thursday, with the Canadian high commissioner to Australia in attendance.Australians, the prime minister said, felt Canada\u2019s \u201cshock, pain and anger\u201d.\u201cI have been in their parliament, I have been at their war memorial. So many of us have,\u201d Abbott said.\u201cI regard Stephen Harper, their prime minister, as a friend and almost a brother. So an attack on their parliament is an affront to this parliament, too.\u201cToday, we stand shoulder to shoulder with our Canadian comrades in defiance and resolution. We stand for freedom and for the right of all people in all places to choose their way of life and their way of worship. We always have, and we always will.\u201dAbbott said the events were a reminder that \u201cthe terrorist threat to our people, our institutions and to our way of life\u201d was real.He noted that Canada and Australia both had to confront the problem of some of their citizens travelling to Iraq and Syria to join groups such as Islamic State (Isis). Shorten said his thoughts were with the family of Corporal Nathan Cirillo, the Canadian army reservist killed while standing watch at the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier, and for the parliamentary guard recovering in hospital.\u201cThe footage that has rolled across our television screens today captures something of the fear and confusion that gripped all of the innocent people in the Canadian parliament and those paying their respects at the Canadian war memorial,\u201d Shorten said.Shorten said Australians would feel affected by the events \u201cbut today should not be cause for fear\u201d. He said Australia\u2019s parliament, war memorial and public buildings must remain open to the public because they belonged to the people.The justice minister, Michael Keenan, said authorities had increased security, including the decision six weeks ago to deploy armed police officers inside and outside Parliament House and improve tactical response capabilities.The foreign affairs minister, Julie Bishop, said when she contacted the Canadian foreign affairs minister, John Baird, early on Thursday, he said he had been just metres from the gunman, and was still barricaded within the parliament building.Bishop said Canada, like Australia, was part of the international coalition fighting against Isis in Iraq. \u201cThe chilling video of a young 17-year-old Australian threatening his country as he takes up arms with [Isis] shows that we must take immediate steps, a strong response to counter this threat.\u201dBishop said she had cancelled about 70 Australian passports on the grounds that the holder posed a security risk. She said forthcoming legislation would allow her to suspend passports.The government\u2019s second stage of national security changes, known as the foreign fighters bill, is scheduled for parliamentary debate and a vote next week.Labor appears likely to support the bill, having voted last month in favour of the government\u2019s previous bill expanding security agency powers and criminalising disclosure of special intelligence operations.Shorten said on Thursday: \u201cWhen it comes to fighting terrorism, we are in this together. It is important that we have a bipartisan approach \u2013 we have and we do.\u201d", "tags": ["Australia news", "Canada", "Australian politics", "Tony Abbott", "Bill Shorten", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Ottawa shooting: Australian leaders 'shoulder to shoulder' with Canada"},{"date": "2014-10-21T13:27:45Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The unrest is palpable. In First Nations across Canada, word is spreading of a historic court ruling recognizing Indigenous land rights. And the murmurs are turning to action: an eviction notice issued to a railway company in British Columbia; a park occupied in Vancouver; lawsuits launched against the Enbridge tar sands pipeline; a government deal reconsidered by Ontario Algonquins; and sovereignty declared by the Atikamekw in Quebec.These First Nations have been emboldened by this summer\u2019s Supreme Court of Canada William decision, which recognized the aboriginal title of the Tsilhqot\u2019in nation to 1,750 sq km of their land in central British Columbia \u2013 not outright ownership, but the right to use and manage the land and to reap its economic benefits.The ruling affects all \u201cunceded\u201d territory in Canada \u2013 those lands never signed away through a treaty or conquered by war. Which means that over an enormous land mass \u2013 most of British Columbia, large parts of Quebec and Atlantic Canada, and a number of other spots \u2013 a new legal landscape is emerging that offers the prospect of much more responsible land stewardship.First Nations are starting to act accordingly, and none more so than the Tsilhqot\u2019in. They\u2019ve declared a tribal park over a swath of their territory. And they\u2019ve announced their own policy on mining \u2013 a vision that leaves room for its possibility, but on much more strict environmental terms. Earlier this month they erected a totem pole to overlook a sacred area where copper and gold miner Taseko has for years been controversially attempting to establish itself; no mine will ever be built there.And the Canadian government\u2019s response? Far from embracing these newly recognised indigenous land rights, they are trying to accelerate their elimination. The court has definitively told Canada to accept the reality of aboriginal title: the government is doing everything in its power to deny it.Canadians can be pardoned for believing that when the country\u2019s highest court renders a decision, the government clicks their heels and sets themselves to implementing it. The judiciary directs, the executive branch follows: that\u2019s how we\u2019re taught it works. But it doesn\u2019t always \u2013 and especially not when what\u2019s at stake is the land at the heart of Canada\u2019s resource extraction.The new land rights ruling is now clashing directly with the Canadian government\u2019s method for cementing their grip on land and resources. It\u2019s a negotiating policy whose name \u2013 the so-called Comprehensive Land Claims \u2013 is intended to make your eyes glaze over. But its bureaucratic clothing disguises the government\u2019s naked ambition: to grab as much of indigenous peoples\u2019 land as possible.This is what dispossession by negotiation looks like. The government demands that First Nations trade away \u2013 or in the original term, to \u201cextinguish\u201d \u2013 their rights to 95% of their traditional territory. Their return is some money and small parcels of land, but insidiously, as private property, instead of in the collective way that indigenous peoples have long held and stewarded it. And First Nations need to provide costly, exhaustive proof of their rights to their own land, for which they have amassed a stunning $700 million in debt \u2013 a debt the government doesn\u2019t think twice about using to arm-twist.Despite the pressure, most First Nations have not yet signed their names to these crooked deals \u2013 especially when the supreme court is simultaneously directing the government to reconcile with First Nations and share the land. But the supreme court\u2019s confirmation that this approach is unconstitutional and illegal matters little to the government. What enables them to flout their own legal system is that Canadians remain scarcely aware of it.Acting without public scrutiny, prime minister Stephen Harper is trying to shore up support for this policy \u2013 now 40 years old \u2013 to finally secure the elimination of indigenous land rights. The process is led by the same man, Douglas Eyford, who has been Harper\u2019s advisor on getting tar sands pipelines and energy projects built in western Canada. That is no coincidence. The government is growing more desperate to remove the biggest obstacle that stands in the way of a corporate bonanza for dirty fossil fuels: the unceded aboriginal title of First Nations \u2013 backed now by the supreme court of Canada.A public commenting period opened during the government\u2019s pr blitz has created an opportunity for the indigenous rights movement and concerned Canadians to demand a long-overdue change in the government\u2019s behaviour. Recognising aboriginal title, restoring lands to First Nations management, would be to embrace the diversity and vision we desperately need in this moment of ecological and economic crisis.Because the government agenda is not just about extinguishing indigenous land rights. It\u2019s about extinguishing another way of seeing the world. About extinguishing economic models that prize interdependence with the living world, that recognise prosperity isn\u2019t secured by the endless depletion of resources. And about extinguishing a love for the land, a love rooted in the unique boundaries and beauty of a place.\u201cThe land is the most important thing,\u201d Tsilhqot\u2019in chief Roger William told me. \u201cOur songs, our place names, our history, our stories \u2013 they come from the land that we are a part of. All of it is interrelated with who we are.\u201dThe few days I spent in Tsilhqot\u2019in territory five years ago made that vivid. It is a land of snow-capped mountains \u2013 Ts\u2019il-os, who in their stories was a man transformed into giant rock after separating from his wife. Wild horses stalk the valleys. Salmon smoke on drying racks. The Tsilhqot\u2019in carefully protect and nurture these fish \u2013 running stronger in their rivers than anywhere else in the province.That\u2019s why the habit of government officials, of media and even of supreme court judges to call the Tsilhqoti\u2019in \u201cnomadic\u201d bothers William so much: his people have lived on these lands for thousands of years, while it is non-natives who are constantly moving and resettling. And what could be more nomadic and transient than the extractive industry itself \u2013 grabbing what resources and profits it can before abandoning one area for another.As Canadians look more closely, they are discovering that the unceded status of vast territories across this country is not a threat, as they\u2019ve long been told. It is a tremendous gift, protected with love by indigenous nations over generations, to be seized for the possibilities it now offers for governing the land in a radically more just and sustainable way for everyone.In this battle between the love of the land and a drive for its destruction, those behind the extractive economy have everything to lose and indigenous peoples everything to win. The rest of us, depending on our stand, have a transformed country to gain.@Martin_Lukacs", "tags": ["Environment", "Land rights", "Indigenous peoples", "Fossil fuels", "Canada", "Law"], "title": "The indigenous land rights ruling that could transform Canada  | Martin Lukacs"},{"date": "2014-10-11T23:00:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The idea of tomato wine may not sound appealing, but many a sommelier has taken Canada\u2019s Omerto Sec for a crisp sauvignon blanc.In picturesque countryside near Quebec City, Pascale Miche runs Omerto, the world\u2019s only commercial producer of aperitif tomato wine.Rather than the green and purple grapes you\u2019ll find on a typical vineyard, fruits of blushy pink and scarlet cover the landscape.Originally from Belgium, Miche inherited his vin de tomate recipe from his grandfather, who, in an effort to avoid waste during the first world war, turned his excess tomatoes into wine.Miche experimented with dozens of heirloom varieties and settled on two blends, sec (the one that tastes like sauvignon blanc and is perfect as an aperitif) and moelleux (like a white port, with a hint of cherry tomato, great with seafood), each using six types of tomato. The process is the same as with wine: the fruit is crushed, fermented with yeast, and bottled.Because tomatoes lack tannins, Omerto wines have the soft, golden hue of traditional whites, with flavours that imitate them as well. You can visit for a tour and tasting \u2013 or order online for a dinner party tipple with a difference.\u2022 domainevb.caLindsay Anderson is co-creator of FEAST: an Edible Road Trip", "tags": ["Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel", "Wine", "Life and style", "Food and drink", "Food & drink"], "title": "The foodie traveller in Canada: glass of tomato wine anyone? \r\n"},{"date": "2014-10-01T16:53:17Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada has switched on the first large-scale coal-fired power plant fitted with a technology that proponents say enables the burning of fossil fuels without tipping the world into a climate catastrophe.The project, the first commercial-scale plant equipped with carbon capture and storage technology, was held up by the coal industry as a real life example that it is possible to go on burning the dirtiest of fossil fuels while avoiding dangerous global warming.Saskatchewan\u2019s state-owned electricity provider is due to cut the ribbon on the $1.3 billion Canadian project on Thursday. But officials from SaskPower International Inc told guests invited to the ceremony the 110 megawatt plant went live on Tuesday night.The Boundary Dam power plant promises to cut carbon dioxide emissions by 90% by trapping C02 underground before the gas reaches the atmosphere \u2013 making its opening a milestone in the coal industry\u2019s efforts to remain viable in a low-carbon economy.The company said the project would reduce greenhouse gas emissions by about 1 million tons a year, or the equivalent of taking 250,000 cars off the road, in one of the more fossil fuel-dependent regions of Canada.Captured CO2 from the Boundary Dam project will be pumped underground and sold to the Cenovus oil company for use in priming nearby oil fields, or buried in geological formations.\u201cSaskatchewan is number one in the world,\u201d said Brad Page, the chief executive of the Global CCS Institute, said. \u201cThis is an incredibly important event from our perspective.\u201dScientists from the United Nations climate panel said last year that without broad deployment of CCS technology most of the world\u2019s fossil fuel will have to stay in the ground to avoid dangerous climate change. Page was cautious however in predicting CCS technology deployed at Boundary Dam would soon be replicated on a large-scale. He noted the Saskatchewan plant relies on a local source of coal \u2013 and on selling on the CO2 to the oil industry \u2013 to keep it in the black. Coal also faces intense competition from historically low prices for natural gas, which makes it prohibitively expensive to build new coal plants with CCS.Even so, the opening of Boundary Dam represents a rare success story for the CCS industry. The technology has not been fully embraced by the big US coal companies \u2013 which are still focused on opposing incoming power plant rules from the Environmental Protection Agency.CCS is also viewed with deep suspicion by environmental campaigners because its economic viability - so far - depends on using the CO2 to increase oil production, and because it is more expensive than renewable sources of energs.The technology of carbon capture and storage has been around for years. \u201cThis is not a moonshot,\u201d Ian Yeates, the SaskPower executive in charge of CCS, told the Guardian earlier this year. But projects combining power generation and CCS have faced long delays and cost overruns, and run into criticism for receiving government subsidies. A number have been scuttled altogether because of competition from historically low prices for natural gas.In Mississippi, Southern Company has spent more than $5.5 bn over the last six years trying to bring a new-built CCS project, the Kemper County Energy Facility, into operation. The opening is now delayed until mid-2015. Only one other CCS project involving power generation is currently on the boards in the US, in Texas.Boundary Dam claimed its cost over-runs had nothing to do with the CCS technology, but in other construction issues involved in overhauling a 50-year-old power plant. Officials also said they were confident they could bring in the next such CCS project 25% cheaper.The plant received some CAD$240m in subsidies.But Yeates acknowledged that at this point the viability of the technology depended on having a nearby source of coal and an additional revenue stream from the enhanced oil recovery. \u201cI think at this stage of the game, because the concept is so new, having a revenue stream from the CO2 is critical to help the economics. But I think eventually that will not be required,\u201d he said.He said the company had seen a lot of interest in the CCS plant from China, India and other places which have large quantities of similar lignite coal. \u201cThere are 7,000 coal-fired turbines on the planet right now and they are not going to be turned off any time soon because people need the energy they produce,\u201d Yeates said. \u201cIs there going to be enough gas to replace all those units? We are going to be burning fossil fuels as a world economy for many many decades if not a century or two as energy demands grow...something like carbon capture and sequestration will be of value to deal with that.\u201dProf Stuart Haszeldine, director of Scottish Carbon Capture & Storage, said: \u201cBoundary Dam is working proof for naysayers, including the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, that full-scale CCS on power generation now exists and works commercially to deliver electricity, with no subsidy.\u201d He claimed the plant\u2019s opening would \u201ccreate ripples worldwide.\u201d", "tags": ["Carbon capture and storage (CCS)", "Environment", "Coal", "Canada", "World news", "Americas", "Climate change", "Energy", "Fossil fuels", "Greenhouse gas emissions"], "title": "Canada switches on world's first carbon capture power plant"},{"date": "2014-11-28T16:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": "I don\u2019t remember the day this was taken, but I remember the next day. I was five years old and there was a lot of frantic running around, neighbours popping in and relatives calling when everyone realised my picture was on the front of the Vancouver Daily Province.Not long after, the authorities asked me to join the victory\u00a0bond drives in nearby war plants. Everyone would be given half an hour off, a group would perform the songs of the day, and at the end they would wheel out a\u00a0huge copy of this picture. I would come out in\u00a0my blazer and short pants (that my mother insisted I wear) and make a speech along the lines of, \u201cBuy a bond today and bring my daddy home\u201d.The photograph was picked up by Associated Press and then Life magazine featured it a couple of months later. This was 1940, before the US joined the war, so it was quite\u00a0something for the American public to see all these soldiers in Canada heading for\u00a0England.My father returned to Canada in 1945 after the war, but he did come home once in 1943 on compassionate leave. My parents\u2019 marriage did not survive the war and he was worried about me. He came back at Christmas; it wasn\u2019t a\u00a0happy time. He didn\u2019t stay with us, and as a kid I thought that was because he was in the army but it was because the marriage was over. This is one of the last pictures of my family\u00a0together.Dad then went back to England to\u00a0find his unit had been sent to Sicily, which was upsetting to him. But eventually he landed at Juno Beach on D-day and proceeded through to Germany at the end of the war. As he said, \u201cIn the end I\u00a0had\u00a0my war.\u201d The day my father came home, my grandfather took\u00a0me to the train station, and there was Dad. That was probably the happiest day in my 10-year-old life.For a long time the photograph was forgotten. It started to resurface on Remembrance Day in the mid-60s, and is often mentioned in the context of Canada\u2019s most popular pictures. The\u00a0city of New Westminster picked up on the fact that it was taken there and last month unveiled\u00a0a bronze statue of it as a memorial. There is also a stamp collection featuring it, as\u00a0well as a\u00a0$2 coin. Apparently, at 79, I am the only living person in Canada to be featured on a coin in circulation, alongside the Queen.At the unveiling of the statue, I\u00a0was overwhelmed by the emotion this photograph evokes. As one of the veterans present said, \u201cIt\u2019s not about war, and blood and guts, and\u00a0guns. It\u2019s about the families that\u00a0get left\u00a0behind.\u201d\u2022 Interview: Abigail RadnorAre you in a famous photograph? Email\u00a0thatsme@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Photography", "Art and design", "Second world war", "World news"], "title": "That\u2019s me in the picture: Warren Bernard in Wait For Me, Daddy, New Westminster, Canada, 1940"},{"date": "2014-10-29T13:24:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Loose talk has cost Royal Bank of Canada $2.5m (\u00a31.5m) after one of its bankers broke strict rules on initial public offerings (IPOs) and spoke about the imminent flotation of Alibaba.The banker inadvertently intruded into Alibaba\u2019s pre-IPO quiet period during a web seminar call, which forced RBC to pull out as one of the underwriters of the record-breaking flotation, forfeiting $2.5m in fees.\u201cDemand for shares of Alibaba are unbelievable. Unbelievable. Everybody wants to own it,\u201d the banker, John Taft, said in the webinar according to the Wall Street Journal.Taft, head of RBC\u2019s US wealth management division, said Alibaba \u201cmay appreciate in value significantly over time\u201d during the discussion titled \u201crestoring investor trust in Wall Street, with broker-dealers and investment advisers\u201d. However, Taft was speaking during Alibaba\u2019s pre-IPO quiet period.RBC said in a statement: \u201cAn employee unrelated to the Alibaba IPO process inadvertently made a comment about the transaction on an industry webinar during the period leading up to the offering.\u201cConsistent with our core values of putting our clients first and out of an abundance of caution, we voluntarily chose to withdraw from the IPO transaction.\u201cThe comment did not impact the offering, and our decision to withdraw in no way reflects on either Alibaba or the IPO transaction.\u201dThe webinar discussion was held on 8 September, a week before Alibaba floated. Taft was correct, as there was huge demand for Alibaba\u2019s stock and the shares soared 38% to $93.89 on their debut.The shares have continued to rise since, and hit a record high of $100.50 on Tuesday briefly valuing the company at $250bn \u2013 more than Walmart. However, Alibaba\u2019s shares closed at $99.68, giving it a market capitalisation of $246bn but slightly less than Walmart\u2019s.Jack Ma, Alibaba\u2019s founder, has been named China\u2019s richest person with a $19.5bn fortune, according to Forbes Magazine. His wealth more than doubled from $7.1bn last year, when he was ranked eighth.\u201cWe have a dream,\u201d Ma said as he rang the opening bell to officially launch the flotation on the New York stock exchange last month. \u201cWe hope in the next 15 years the world changes because of us. We hope in 15 years people say this is a company like Microsoft, IBM, Walmart. They changed, shaped the world \u2026 We want to be bigger than Walmart.\u201dMa claims to have got his inspiration from an unusual source: \u201cThe hero I had is Forrest Gump. I really like that guy \u2026 Every time I get frustrated, I watch the movie.\u201cI watched the movie again [before the float] telling me no matter what changed, you are you. I\u2019m still the guy [of] 15 years ago, you know, I only earned like $20 a month. And today I can do [this] much.\u201d", "tags": ["Banking", "Business", "Alibaba", "IPOs", "Stock markets", "Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Careless talk over Alibaba flotation costs Royal Bank of Canada $2.5m"},{"date": "2015-01-13T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "My Swiss cousins aren\u2019t interested in Toronto\u2019s boutiques and galleries \u2013 Europe has better \u2013 they want to see wilderness. So, leaving Guelph, we take Highway 6 North, up the Bruce Peninsula, the narrowing spine of escarpment that divides Georgian Bay from Lake Huron. Its western edge is lined with sandy beaches, but on the east side dolomite cliffs rise vertically from the blue water of the bay. At Cyprus Lake, we hike out to the Grotto, where a ribbon of limestone, crowned with elegant paper birches, forms an arch over a clear shallow pool.We return inland along the Marr Lake trail, traversing the great expanse of round pebbles between the little lake and the bay. A ringneck snake crosses the path, slate-coloured, with delicate black lines along its back and a tiny brown head; the neck-ring is merely a reddish spot.It\u2019s October, already cold. Rain begins to fall and we hurry back to the van.The peninsula and the highway end at the harbour village of Tobermory. We check into the Princess Hotel. The dinner special is fish and chips: Georgian Bay yellow perch. We go to bed early and fall asleep to the sound of rain on the roof.At the tip of the Bruce, the escarpment submerges, scattering a cluster of rocky islands. In these treacherous shoals lie the wrecks of many 19th-century Great Lakes schooners, and the area is protected as \u201cFathom Five\u201d, an underwater national park. A few kilometres north, the escarpment rises again to form the largest island on a freshwater lake in the world \u2013 Manitoulin. In the morning, we board the MS Chi-Cheemaun ferry, and when we disembark at South Baymouth, two hours later, we are in the northland. The trees are at their peak of autumn colour; what symbol other than the scarlet leaf of the sugar maple could say \u201cCanada\u201d so authentically?At Red Lodge on the shore of Lake Manitou (a lake on an island in a lake!), the only other guests are a group of schoolteachers on a weekend retreat. Brigitte is puzzled to hear their unfamiliar language; it\u2019s Ojibwe. Much of Manitoulin is unceded indigenous land, and the names of its towns reflect the coexistence of European and native traditions: Providence Bay and Silver Water; M\u2019Chigeeng, Wikwemikong and Zhiibaahaasing.On Sunday, taking the advice of the lodge\u2019s proprietor, we drive to Kagawong, where the river of that name descends over Bridal Veil Falls and flows swiftly out to North Channel. The salmon run is at its height and the Kagawong river is filled with the fish, desperately struggling upstream to spawn in the pool beneath the falls. The river is partly diverted through a channel into a hydroelectric plant. Electrical current is generated at the expense of river current. The diminished flow gives the fish less depth to clear the rocks and fallen logs. Many fail to reach their destination; dying and dead salmon lie along the banks of the river. A local man walking his dog along the trail says: \u201cBy the time they spawn, most of their flesh has turned to mush, and even the bears won\u2019t eat \u2019em.\u201dThe Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Canada: Bruce beauty"},{"date": "2015-01-13T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "My Swiss cousins aren\u2019t interested in Toronto\u2019s boutiques and galleries \u2013 Europe has better \u2013 they want to see wilderness. So, leaving Guelph, we take Highway 6 North, up the Bruce Peninsula, the narrowing spine of escarpment that divides Georgian Bay from Lake Huron. Its western edge is lined with sandy beaches, but on the east side dolomite cliffs rise vertically from the blue water of the bay. At Cyprus Lake, we hike out to the Grotto, where a ribbon of limestone, crowned with elegant paper birches, forms an arch over a clear shallow pool.We return inland along the Marr Lake trail, traversing the great expanse of round pebbles between the little lake and the bay. A ringneck snake crosses the path, slate-coloured, with delicate black lines along its back and a tiny brown head; the neck-ring is merely a reddish spot.It\u2019s October, already cold. Rain begins to fall and we hurry back to the van.The peninsula and the highway end at the harbour village of Tobermory. We check into the Princess Hotel. The dinner special is fish and chips: Georgian Bay yellow perch. We go to bed early and fall asleep to the sound of rain on the roof.At the tip of the Bruce, the escarpment submerges, scattering a cluster of rocky islands. In these treacherous shoals lie the wrecks of many 19th-century Great Lakes schooners, and the area is protected as \u201cFathom Five\u201d, an underwater national park. A few kilometres north, the escarpment rises again to form the largest island on a freshwater lake in the world \u2013 Manitoulin. In the morning, we board the MS Chi-Cheemaun ferry, and when we disembark at South Baymouth, two hours later, we are in the northland. The trees are at their peak of autumn colour; what symbol other than the scarlet leaf of the sugar maple could say \u201cCanada\u201d so authentically?At Red Lodge on the shore of Lake Manitou (a lake on an island in a lake!), the only other guests are a group of schoolteachers on a weekend retreat. Brigitte is puzzled to hear their unfamiliar language; it\u2019s Ojibwe. Much of Manitoulin is unceded indigenous land, and the names of its towns reflect the coexistence of European and native traditions: Providence Bay and Silver Water; M\u2019Chigeeng, Wikwemikong and Zhiibaahaasing.On Sunday, taking the advice of the lodge\u2019s proprietor, we drive to Kagawong, where the river of that name descends over Bridal Veil Falls and flows swiftly out to North Channel. The salmon run is at its height and the Kagawong river is filled with the fish, desperately struggling upstream to spawn in the pool beneath the falls. The river is partly diverted through a channel into a hydroelectric plant. Electrical current is generated at the expense of river current. The diminished flow gives the fish less depth to clear the rocks and fallen logs. Many fail to reach their destination; dying and dead salmon lie along the banks of the river. A local man walking his dog along the trail says: \u201cBy the time they spawn, most of their flesh has turned to mush, and even the bears won\u2019t eat \u2019em.\u201dThe Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Canada: Bruce beauty"},{"date": "2015-03-25T12:49:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Name: TriptoesBased: BathWebsite: www.triptoes.comTriptoes, which launched January 2014, was started from a personal passion and a vision to provide family-friendly holidays to Canada for UK families. Our mission is to become the leading provider of unforgettable family holidays to Canada, removing stress from the planning process and ensuring that each family that travels with us experiences the best that this vast and beautiful country has to offer. In October, we won the TravelMole award for Best Accommodation Website 2014 as voted by our peers in the travel industry. During the past year, we have focussed on developing our brand and reputation as a niche family specialist and have been quoted as a family travel specialist in the Globe & Mail, Canada\u2019s leading newspaper. We have grown from being a provider of accommodation-only holidays to developing our adventure product and tailor-made fly-drive itineraries. Over the last 18 months, we have received grant assistance from our local enterprise partnership growth fund and we have just registered for our second year in a row to attend Rendez-vous Canada, the country\u2019s leading tourism marketplace at Niagara Falls in May. Jessica Boston is managing director of Triptoes Canada", "tags": ["Small Business Showcase"], "title": "Startup of the year 2014: Triptoes Canada"},{"date": "2015-01-13T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "My Swiss cousins aren\u2019t interested in Toronto\u2019s boutiques and galleries \u2013 Europe has better \u2013 they want to see wilderness. So, leaving Guelph, we take Highway 6 North, up the Bruce Peninsula, the narrowing spine of escarpment that divides Georgian Bay from Lake Huron. Its western edge is lined with sandy beaches, but on the east side dolomite cliffs rise vertically from the blue water of the bay. At Cyprus Lake, we hike out to the Grotto, where a ribbon of limestone, crowned with elegant paper birches, forms an arch over a clear shallow pool.We return inland along the Marr Lake trail, traversing the great expanse of round pebbles between the little lake and the bay. A ringneck snake crosses the path, slate-coloured, with delicate black lines along its back and a tiny brown head; the neck-ring is merely a reddish spot.It\u2019s October, already cold. Rain begins to fall and we hurry back to the van.The peninsula and the highway end at the harbour village of Tobermory. We check into the Princess Hotel. The dinner special is fish and chips: Georgian Bay yellow perch. We go to bed early and fall asleep to the sound of rain on the roof.At the tip of the Bruce, the escarpment submerges, scattering a cluster of rocky islands. In these treacherous shoals lie the wrecks of many 19th-century Great Lakes schooners, and the area is protected as \u201cFathom Five\u201d, an underwater national park. A few kilometres north, the escarpment rises again to form the largest island on a freshwater lake in the world \u2013 Manitoulin. In the morning, we board the MS Chi-Cheemaun ferry, and when we disembark at South Baymouth, two hours later, we are in the northland. The trees are at their peak of autumn colour; what symbol other than the scarlet leaf of the sugar maple could say \u201cCanada\u201d so authentically?At Red Lodge on the shore of Lake Manitou (a lake on an island in a lake!), the only other guests are a group of schoolteachers on a weekend retreat. Brigitte is puzzled to hear their unfamiliar language; it\u2019s Ojibwe. Much of Manitoulin is unceded indigenous land, and the names of its towns reflect the coexistence of European and native traditions: Providence Bay and Silver Water; M\u2019Chigeeng, Wikwemikong and Zhiibaahaasing.On Sunday, taking the advice of the lodge\u2019s proprietor, we drive to Kagawong, where the river of that name descends over Bridal Veil Falls and flows swiftly out to North Channel. The salmon run is at its height and the Kagawong river is filled with the fish, desperately struggling upstream to spawn in the pool beneath the falls. The river is partly diverted through a channel into a hydroelectric plant. Electrical current is generated at the expense of river current. The diminished flow gives the fish less depth to clear the rocks and fallen logs. Many fail to reach their destination; dying and dead salmon lie along the banks of the river. A local man walking his dog along the trail says: \u201cBy the time they spawn, most of their flesh has turned to mush, and even the bears won\u2019t eat \u2019em.\u201dThe Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Canada: Bruce beauty"},{"date": "2015-03-25T12:49:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Name: TriptoesBased: BathWebsite: www.triptoes.comTriptoes, which launched January 2014, was started from a personal passion and a vision to provide family-friendly holidays to Canada for UK families. Our mission is to become the leading provider of unforgettable family holidays to Canada, removing stress from the planning process and ensuring that each family that travels with us experiences the best that this vast and beautiful country has to offer. In October, we won the TravelMole award for Best Accommodation Website 2014 as voted by our peers in the travel industry. During the past year, we have focussed on developing our brand and reputation as a niche family specialist and have been quoted as a family travel specialist in the Globe & Mail, Canada\u2019s leading newspaper. We have grown from being a provider of accommodation-only holidays to developing our adventure product and tailor-made fly-drive itineraries. Over the last 18 months, we have received grant assistance from our local enterprise partnership growth fund and we have just registered for our second year in a row to attend Rendez-vous Canada, the country\u2019s leading tourism marketplace at Niagara Falls in May. Jessica Boston is managing director of Triptoes Canada", "tags": ["Small Business Showcase"], "title": "Startup of the year 2014: Triptoes Canada"},{"date": "2015-03-08T10:30:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In recent columns, I\u2019ve praised Tesco\u2019s Blinkbox Books service for honouring its commitment to customers by transferring its libraries to Kobo, a competing e-reading service of long standing. Blinkbox also distinguished itself by putting the source code for almost its entire system online, free, meaning someone could build a whole new service based on its work. So far, so classy.However, a couple of former Blinkbox customers have been in touch to voice some disquiet at the process. As they point out, unlike Blinkbooks, Kobo is based abroad, in Canada, and so a different set of laws apply when it comes to its management of customer\u00a0data.For example, while businesses and government departments in the UK must comply with the Data Protection Act, the Canadian parliament is currently debating a new piece of legislation, the Information Sharing Act, which will allow all departments of government to share information in ways that are not currently permitted in the UK.While it\u2019s highly unlikely that any Kobo users will end up on a Canadian watchlist, the point remains: ship your data abroad, and it falls into other jurisdictions and other legal systems that you don\u2019t necessarily vote for or understand. It\u2019s a long way from the local library.Those dissenters who didn\u2019t wish to transfer their contracts abroad have, I\u2019m happy to say, received a full refund from Blinkbox, so they can repurchase their lost books elsewhere.But as I\u2019ve often argued, it\u2019s users\u2019 history and data that make real their experience of reading \u2013 the highlights and bookmarks are analogous to the dog ears and underlinings you might make in a physical book. Even for those who move to Kobo, all highlights and bookmarks will be lost.Shamefully, the ebooks ecosystem still lacks an open annotation interchange format; perhaps this could be someone\u2019s next good work.", "tags": ["E-readers", "Ebooks", "Technology", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "A Kobo contract\u2019s great \u2026 if you\u2019re based in Canada"},{"date": "2015-01-13T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "My Swiss cousins aren\u2019t interested in Toronto\u2019s boutiques and galleries \u2013 Europe has better \u2013 they want to see wilderness. So, leaving Guelph, we take Highway 6 North, up the Bruce Peninsula, the narrowing spine of escarpment that divides Georgian Bay from Lake Huron. Its western edge is lined with sandy beaches, but on the east side dolomite cliffs rise vertically from the blue water of the bay. At Cyprus Lake, we hike out to the Grotto, where a ribbon of limestone, crowned with elegant paper birches, forms an arch over a clear shallow pool.We return inland along the Marr Lake trail, traversing the great expanse of round pebbles between the little lake and the bay. A ringneck snake crosses the path, slate-coloured, with delicate black lines along its back and a tiny brown head; the neck-ring is merely a reddish spot.It\u2019s October, already cold. Rain begins to fall and we hurry back to the van.The peninsula and the highway end at the harbour village of Tobermory. We check into the Princess Hotel. The dinner special is fish and chips: Georgian Bay yellow perch. We go to bed early and fall asleep to the sound of rain on the roof.At the tip of the Bruce, the escarpment submerges, scattering a cluster of rocky islands. In these treacherous shoals lie the wrecks of many 19th-century Great Lakes schooners, and the area is protected as \u201cFathom Five\u201d, an underwater national park. A few kilometres north, the escarpment rises again to form the largest island on a freshwater lake in the world \u2013 Manitoulin. In the morning, we board the MS Chi-Cheemaun ferry, and when we disembark at South Baymouth, two hours later, we are in the northland. The trees are at their peak of autumn colour; what symbol other than the scarlet leaf of the sugar maple could say \u201cCanada\u201d so authentically?At Red Lodge on the shore of Lake Manitou (a lake on an island in a lake!), the only other guests are a group of schoolteachers on a weekend retreat. Brigitte is puzzled to hear their unfamiliar language; it\u2019s Ojibwe. Much of Manitoulin is unceded indigenous land, and the names of its towns reflect the coexistence of European and native traditions: Providence Bay and Silver Water; M\u2019Chigeeng, Wikwemikong and Zhiibaahaasing.On Sunday, taking the advice of the lodge\u2019s proprietor, we drive to Kagawong, where the river of that name descends over Bridal Veil Falls and flows swiftly out to North Channel. The salmon run is at its height and the Kagawong river is filled with the fish, desperately struggling upstream to spawn in the pool beneath the falls. The river is partly diverted through a channel into a hydroelectric plant. Electrical current is generated at the expense of river current. The diminished flow gives the fish less depth to clear the rocks and fallen logs. Many fail to reach their destination; dying and dead salmon lie along the banks of the river. A local man walking his dog along the trail says: \u201cBy the time they spawn, most of their flesh has turned to mush, and even the bears won\u2019t eat \u2019em.\u201dThe Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Canada: Bruce beauty"},{"date": "2015-03-25T12:49:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Name: TriptoesBased: BathWebsite: www.triptoes.comTriptoes, which launched January 2014, was started from a personal passion and a vision to provide family-friendly holidays to Canada for UK families. Our mission is to become the leading provider of unforgettable family holidays to Canada, removing stress from the planning process and ensuring that each family that travels with us experiences the best that this vast and beautiful country has to offer. In October, we won the TravelMole award for Best Accommodation Website 2014 as voted by our peers in the travel industry. During the past year, we have focussed on developing our brand and reputation as a niche family specialist and have been quoted as a family travel specialist in the Globe & Mail, Canada\u2019s leading newspaper. We have grown from being a provider of accommodation-only holidays to developing our adventure product and tailor-made fly-drive itineraries. Over the last 18 months, we have received grant assistance from our local enterprise partnership growth fund and we have just registered for our second year in a row to attend Rendez-vous Canada, the country\u2019s leading tourism marketplace at Niagara Falls in May. Jessica Boston is managing director of Triptoes Canada", "tags": ["Small Business Showcase"], "title": "Startup of the year 2014: Triptoes Canada"},{"date": "2015-03-08T10:30:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In recent columns, I\u2019ve praised Tesco\u2019s Blinkbox Books service for honouring its commitment to customers by transferring its libraries to Kobo, a competing e-reading service of long standing. Blinkbox also distinguished itself by putting the source code for almost its entire system online, free, meaning someone could build a whole new service based on its work. So far, so classy.However, a couple of former Blinkbox customers have been in touch to voice some disquiet at the process. As they point out, unlike Blinkbooks, Kobo is based abroad, in Canada, and so a different set of laws apply when it comes to its management of customer\u00a0data.For example, while businesses and government departments in the UK must comply with the Data Protection Act, the Canadian parliament is currently debating a new piece of legislation, the Information Sharing Act, which will allow all departments of government to share information in ways that are not currently permitted in the UK.While it\u2019s highly unlikely that any Kobo users will end up on a Canadian watchlist, the point remains: ship your data abroad, and it falls into other jurisdictions and other legal systems that you don\u2019t necessarily vote for or understand. It\u2019s a long way from the local library.Those dissenters who didn\u2019t wish to transfer their contracts abroad have, I\u2019m happy to say, received a full refund from Blinkbox, so they can repurchase their lost books elsewhere.But as I\u2019ve often argued, it\u2019s users\u2019 history and data that make real their experience of reading \u2013 the highlights and bookmarks are analogous to the dog ears and underlinings you might make in a physical book. Even for those who move to Kobo, all highlights and bookmarks will be lost.Shamefully, the ebooks ecosystem still lacks an open annotation interchange format; perhaps this could be someone\u2019s next good work.", "tags": ["E-readers", "Ebooks", "Technology", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "A Kobo contract\u2019s great \u2026 if you\u2019re based in Canada"},{"date": "2015-02-17T08:06:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Rob da Bank has announced that his annual festival, Bestival, will stage a two-day event in Toronto, Canada.Taking place on 12-13 June on the shore of Lake Ontario, the new offshoot of the event has been a long time coming, says its organiser. \u201cWe have waited 12 years to decide to launch another Bestival outside of the UK and our beloved Bestival, on the Isle of Wight, which has grown into one of the most important festivals in the global calendar,\u201d said the former BBC Radio 1 DJ. \u201cIt took a really special city, and an even more exciting site, with Toronto and Toronto island, to make us take the leap.\u201d This is the latest addition to the expanding Bestival brand, after organisers announced a new Southampton two-day music festival. Common People will host as many as 30,000 fans for a mix of rock, indie, pop and dance performers on 23 and 24 May. Da Bank has also recently discussed plans to launch Bestival in Europe. Related: Chemical Brothers to headline Bestival 2015 Most recently, the UK branch of Bestival confirmed that the Saturday night lineup would be headlined by the Chemical Brothers, who will return to the Isle of Wight after previously topping the bill in 2007. Its fancy dress theme is \u201cSummer of Love\u201d, and Duran Duran and the Jacksons, Tame Impala, Flying Lotus and Jungle will also perform at the September event. ", "tags": ["Bestival", "Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock", "Music festivals", "Festivals", "Canada"], "title": "Rob da Bank's Bestival announces first Canada event"},{"date": "2015-01-13T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "My Swiss cousins aren\u2019t interested in Toronto\u2019s boutiques and galleries \u2013 Europe has better \u2013 they want to see wilderness. So, leaving Guelph, we take Highway 6 North, up the Bruce Peninsula, the narrowing spine of escarpment that divides Georgian Bay from Lake Huron. Its western edge is lined with sandy beaches, but on the east side dolomite cliffs rise vertically from the blue water of the bay. At Cyprus Lake, we hike out to the Grotto, where a ribbon of limestone, crowned with elegant paper birches, forms an arch over a clear shallow pool.We return inland along the Marr Lake trail, traversing the great expanse of round pebbles between the little lake and the bay. A ringneck snake crosses the path, slate-coloured, with delicate black lines along its back and a tiny brown head; the neck-ring is merely a reddish spot.It\u2019s October, already cold. Rain begins to fall and we hurry back to the van.The peninsula and the highway end at the harbour village of Tobermory. We check into the Princess Hotel. The dinner special is fish and chips: Georgian Bay yellow perch. We go to bed early and fall asleep to the sound of rain on the roof.At the tip of the Bruce, the escarpment submerges, scattering a cluster of rocky islands. In these treacherous shoals lie the wrecks of many 19th-century Great Lakes schooners, and the area is protected as \u201cFathom Five\u201d, an underwater national park. A few kilometres north, the escarpment rises again to form the largest island on a freshwater lake in the world \u2013 Manitoulin. In the morning, we board the MS Chi-Cheemaun ferry, and when we disembark at South Baymouth, two hours later, we are in the northland. The trees are at their peak of autumn colour; what symbol other than the scarlet leaf of the sugar maple could say \u201cCanada\u201d so authentically?At Red Lodge on the shore of Lake Manitou (a lake on an island in a lake!), the only other guests are a group of schoolteachers on a weekend retreat. Brigitte is puzzled to hear their unfamiliar language; it\u2019s Ojibwe. Much of Manitoulin is unceded indigenous land, and the names of its towns reflect the coexistence of European and native traditions: Providence Bay and Silver Water; M\u2019Chigeeng, Wikwemikong and Zhiibaahaasing.On Sunday, taking the advice of the lodge\u2019s proprietor, we drive to Kagawong, where the river of that name descends over Bridal Veil Falls and flows swiftly out to North Channel. The salmon run is at its height and the Kagawong river is filled with the fish, desperately struggling upstream to spawn in the pool beneath the falls. The river is partly diverted through a channel into a hydroelectric plant. Electrical current is generated at the expense of river current. The diminished flow gives the fish less depth to clear the rocks and fallen logs. Many fail to reach their destination; dying and dead salmon lie along the banks of the river. A local man walking his dog along the trail says: \u201cBy the time they spawn, most of their flesh has turned to mush, and even the bears won\u2019t eat \u2019em.\u201dThe Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Canada: Bruce beauty"},{"date": "2015-03-25T12:49:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Name: TriptoesBased: BathWebsite: www.triptoes.comTriptoes, which launched January 2014, was started from a personal passion and a vision to provide family-friendly holidays to Canada for UK families. Our mission is to become the leading provider of unforgettable family holidays to Canada, removing stress from the planning process and ensuring that each family that travels with us experiences the best that this vast and beautiful country has to offer. In October, we won the TravelMole award for Best Accommodation Website 2014 as voted by our peers in the travel industry. During the past year, we have focussed on developing our brand and reputation as a niche family specialist and have been quoted as a family travel specialist in the Globe & Mail, Canada\u2019s leading newspaper. We have grown from being a provider of accommodation-only holidays to developing our adventure product and tailor-made fly-drive itineraries. Over the last 18 months, we have received grant assistance from our local enterprise partnership growth fund and we have just registered for our second year in a row to attend Rendez-vous Canada, the country\u2019s leading tourism marketplace at Niagara Falls in May. Jessica Boston is managing director of Triptoes Canada", "tags": ["Small Business Showcase"], "title": "Startup of the year 2014: Triptoes Canada"},{"date": "2015-03-08T10:30:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In recent columns, I\u2019ve praised Tesco\u2019s Blinkbox Books service for honouring its commitment to customers by transferring its libraries to Kobo, a competing e-reading service of long standing. Blinkbox also distinguished itself by putting the source code for almost its entire system online, free, meaning someone could build a whole new service based on its work. So far, so classy.However, a couple of former Blinkbox customers have been in touch to voice some disquiet at the process. As they point out, unlike Blinkbooks, Kobo is based abroad, in Canada, and so a different set of laws apply when it comes to its management of customer\u00a0data.For example, while businesses and government departments in the UK must comply with the Data Protection Act, the Canadian parliament is currently debating a new piece of legislation, the Information Sharing Act, which will allow all departments of government to share information in ways that are not currently permitted in the UK.While it\u2019s highly unlikely that any Kobo users will end up on a Canadian watchlist, the point remains: ship your data abroad, and it falls into other jurisdictions and other legal systems that you don\u2019t necessarily vote for or understand. It\u2019s a long way from the local library.Those dissenters who didn\u2019t wish to transfer their contracts abroad have, I\u2019m happy to say, received a full refund from Blinkbox, so they can repurchase their lost books elsewhere.But as I\u2019ve often argued, it\u2019s users\u2019 history and data that make real their experience of reading \u2013 the highlights and bookmarks are analogous to the dog ears and underlinings you might make in a physical book. Even for those who move to Kobo, all highlights and bookmarks will be lost.Shamefully, the ebooks ecosystem still lacks an open annotation interchange format; perhaps this could be someone\u2019s next good work.", "tags": ["E-readers", "Ebooks", "Technology", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "A Kobo contract\u2019s great \u2026 if you\u2019re based in Canada"},{"date": "2015-02-17T08:06:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Rob da Bank has announced that his annual festival, Bestival, will stage a two-day event in Toronto, Canada.Taking place on 12-13 June on the shore of Lake Ontario, the new offshoot of the event has been a long time coming, says its organiser. \u201cWe have waited 12 years to decide to launch another Bestival outside of the UK and our beloved Bestival, on the Isle of Wight, which has grown into one of the most important festivals in the global calendar,\u201d said the former BBC Radio 1 DJ. \u201cIt took a really special city, and an even more exciting site, with Toronto and Toronto island, to make us take the leap.\u201d This is the latest addition to the expanding Bestival brand, after organisers announced a new Southampton two-day music festival. Common People will host as many as 30,000 fans for a mix of rock, indie, pop and dance performers on 23 and 24 May. Da Bank has also recently discussed plans to launch Bestival in Europe. Related: Chemical Brothers to headline Bestival 2015 Most recently, the UK branch of Bestival confirmed that the Saturday night lineup would be headlined by the Chemical Brothers, who will return to the Isle of Wight after previously topping the bill in 2007. Its fancy dress theme is \u201cSummer of Love\u201d, and Duran Duran and the Jacksons, Tame Impala, Flying Lotus and Jungle will also perform at the September event. ", "tags": ["Bestival", "Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock", "Music festivals", "Festivals", "Canada"], "title": "Rob da Bank's Bestival announces first Canada event"},{"date": "2015-01-08T13:02:49Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A handful of protesters shivering in \u201322C weather failed to cool the welcome Bill Cosby received when he brought his one-man show to a small Canadian city, his first live appearance since November.While news reports added three more names to the long list of women who have accused the embattled comedian of sexually abusing them, Cosby fans in Kitchener, Ontario, would hear none of it. \u201cInnocent until proven guilty!\u201d they declared repeatedly to media outside the 2,000-seat theatre, where Cosby played to an appreciative house about two-thirds full.The comedian\u2019s 90-minute set on Wednesday night, filled with shaggy dog stories of family life, ended with a brief standing ovation. Although he joked extensively about domestic violence, drawing the biggest laughs of the evening with stories of parental beatings and \u201cwhuppings\u201d, Cosby did not broach the accusations of sexual violence that are threatening to destroy his career.More pointedly, his fans did not stay away because of them. \u201cHe hasn\u2019t been charged with anything,\u201d said Bert, a local retiree. \u201cYou either go with the law or you don\u2019t.\u201dOn Wednesday, Phylicia Rashad, the actor who for 12 years played the role of Clair Huxtable, Cosby\u2019s TV wife, lent her support to the comedian. In an interview with US network ABC News she accused the media of waging a campaign against him without any proof. \u201cThis is not about the women, this is about something else,\u201d she said. \u201cThis is about the obliteration of legacy.\u201dBut some of those attending the show were more ambivalent. \u201cIf I had known about this months ago, when I bought the tickets, I probably wouldn\u2019t have come,\u201d said one elderly man, who declined to give his name. \u201cTwenty-odd allegations can\u2019t be wrong. But I hate to see justice done in the Twitterverse.\u201dMaking the decision to use her tickets was \u201ctough\u201d, said Dawn, who attended the show with her husband and three children. \u201cLet\u2019s just say this was awkward for us. I had two channels growing up, and The Cosby Show was the only show I ever watched. We spent more than $700 on tickets to see someone we\u2019ve supported for years.\u201dMore than laughs, Dawn came seeking an explanation. \u201cJust because you go to the show doesn\u2019t mean you think he\u2019s not guilty,\u201d she said. \u201cI want to hear what he has to say.\u201dAlthough Cosby made several jokes at the expense of his wife, he steered clear of any sexual innuendo. \u201cIt\u2019s good clean humour,\u201d said one young man, who gave his name as Gerald. But Gerald and his friend, Austin, were somewhat disappointed that no hecklers disrupted Cosby\u2019s performance. \u201cI\u2019m not going to lie to you, that\u2019s a big part of what brought me out today,\u201d Austin said.Wednesday\u2019s performance was Cosby\u2019s first since a November show in Florida. Since then, at least 10 US dates have been cancelled as a growing number of women have come forward to accuse the famously wholesome figure of sexual abuse \u2013 with many alleging that he drugged his victims to render them helpless before raping them.In a statement issued by his publicist after the show, Cosby thanked his fans \u201cfor giving me the opportunity to bring laughter back into your lives tonight\u201d.Two more Canadian performances were scheduled for Thursday night and Friday. Citing legal and financial necessity, the Chicago-based promoter Innovation Arts and Entertainment went ahead with the gigs despite widespread calls for their cancellation.\u201cIf the allegations are true, of course I find them abhorrent,\u201d company spokesman Adam Epstein told the Canadian press. But Epstein, like the audience he attracted to Cosby\u2019s Kitchener concert, still refused to believe the worst. \u201cWhat if it is not true?\u201d he asked.Ontario\u2019s premier, Kathleen Wynne, was less hesitant, citing the \u201cvery serious\u201d allegations against Cosby. \u201cUntil those are sorted out I certainly would not go to a performance,\u201d she said.Journalists outnumbered demonstrators on the frozen pavement outside the theatre prior to the performance by about 10 to one. \u201cRape is not a joke\u201d declared one much-photographed placard.Most protesters eventually sought the comfort of a nearby tavern, where a volunteer group mounted a fundraising concert for local rape-crisis facilities. Staged at the same time as the Cosby show, it attracted about 300 attendees, including Kitchener\u2019s mayor, Berry Vrbanovic.\u201cWe wanted to make a positive statement, to focus on survivors,\u201d said organiser Melanie Baker. The purpose of the event, she added, was to \u201cmake it easier community-wide for people who have experienced sexual assault to come forward\u201d.As for those who chose Cosby instead, Baker held no grudge. \u201cI hope they had a good time,\u201d she said. \u201cWe would have preferred the show was cancelled and I would prefer that everyone was on our side. But you can\u2019t reach people who don\u2019t want to hear.\u201d", "tags": ["Bill Cosby", "Canada", "World news", "Comedy", "Culture", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Bill Cosby performs in Canada amid sex abuse allegations"},{"date": "2015-01-13T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "My Swiss cousins aren\u2019t interested in Toronto\u2019s boutiques and galleries \u2013 Europe has better \u2013 they want to see wilderness. So, leaving Guelph, we take Highway 6 North, up the Bruce Peninsula, the narrowing spine of escarpment that divides Georgian Bay from Lake Huron. Its western edge is lined with sandy beaches, but on the east side dolomite cliffs rise vertically from the blue water of the bay. At Cyprus Lake, we hike out to the Grotto, where a ribbon of limestone, crowned with elegant paper birches, forms an arch over a clear shallow pool.We return inland along the Marr Lake trail, traversing the great expanse of round pebbles between the little lake and the bay. A ringneck snake crosses the path, slate-coloured, with delicate black lines along its back and a tiny brown head; the neck-ring is merely a reddish spot.It\u2019s October, already cold. Rain begins to fall and we hurry back to the van.The peninsula and the highway end at the harbour village of Tobermory. We check into the Princess Hotel. The dinner special is fish and chips: Georgian Bay yellow perch. We go to bed early and fall asleep to the sound of rain on the roof.At the tip of the Bruce, the escarpment submerges, scattering a cluster of rocky islands. In these treacherous shoals lie the wrecks of many 19th-century Great Lakes schooners, and the area is protected as \u201cFathom Five\u201d, an underwater national park. A few kilometres north, the escarpment rises again to form the largest island on a freshwater lake in the world \u2013 Manitoulin. In the morning, we board the MS Chi-Cheemaun ferry, and when we disembark at South Baymouth, two hours later, we are in the northland. The trees are at their peak of autumn colour; what symbol other than the scarlet leaf of the sugar maple could say \u201cCanada\u201d so authentically?At Red Lodge on the shore of Lake Manitou (a lake on an island in a lake!), the only other guests are a group of schoolteachers on a weekend retreat. Brigitte is puzzled to hear their unfamiliar language; it\u2019s Ojibwe. Much of Manitoulin is unceded indigenous land, and the names of its towns reflect the coexistence of European and native traditions: Providence Bay and Silver Water; M\u2019Chigeeng, Wikwemikong and Zhiibaahaasing.On Sunday, taking the advice of the lodge\u2019s proprietor, we drive to Kagawong, where the river of that name descends over Bridal Veil Falls and flows swiftly out to North Channel. The salmon run is at its height and the Kagawong river is filled with the fish, desperately struggling upstream to spawn in the pool beneath the falls. The river is partly diverted through a channel into a hydroelectric plant. Electrical current is generated at the expense of river current. The diminished flow gives the fish less depth to clear the rocks and fallen logs. Many fail to reach their destination; dying and dead salmon lie along the banks of the river. A local man walking his dog along the trail says: \u201cBy the time they spawn, most of their flesh has turned to mush, and even the bears won\u2019t eat \u2019em.\u201dThe Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Canada: Bruce beauty"},{"date": "2015-03-25T12:49:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Name: TriptoesBased: BathWebsite: www.triptoes.comTriptoes, which launched January 2014, was started from a personal passion and a vision to provide family-friendly holidays to Canada for UK families. Our mission is to become the leading provider of unforgettable family holidays to Canada, removing stress from the planning process and ensuring that each family that travels with us experiences the best that this vast and beautiful country has to offer. In October, we won the TravelMole award for Best Accommodation Website 2014 as voted by our peers in the travel industry. During the past year, we have focussed on developing our brand and reputation as a niche family specialist and have been quoted as a family travel specialist in the Globe & Mail, Canada\u2019s leading newspaper. We have grown from being a provider of accommodation-only holidays to developing our adventure product and tailor-made fly-drive itineraries. Over the last 18 months, we have received grant assistance from our local enterprise partnership growth fund and we have just registered for our second year in a row to attend Rendez-vous Canada, the country\u2019s leading tourism marketplace at Niagara Falls in May. Jessica Boston is managing director of Triptoes Canada", "tags": ["Small Business Showcase"], "title": "Startup of the year 2014: Triptoes Canada"},{"date": "2015-03-08T10:30:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In recent columns, I\u2019ve praised Tesco\u2019s Blinkbox Books service for honouring its commitment to customers by transferring its libraries to Kobo, a competing e-reading service of long standing. Blinkbox also distinguished itself by putting the source code for almost its entire system online, free, meaning someone could build a whole new service based on its work. So far, so classy.However, a couple of former Blinkbox customers have been in touch to voice some disquiet at the process. As they point out, unlike Blinkbooks, Kobo is based abroad, in Canada, and so a different set of laws apply when it comes to its management of customer\u00a0data.For example, while businesses and government departments in the UK must comply with the Data Protection Act, the Canadian parliament is currently debating a new piece of legislation, the Information Sharing Act, which will allow all departments of government to share information in ways that are not currently permitted in the UK.While it\u2019s highly unlikely that any Kobo users will end up on a Canadian watchlist, the point remains: ship your data abroad, and it falls into other jurisdictions and other legal systems that you don\u2019t necessarily vote for or understand. It\u2019s a long way from the local library.Those dissenters who didn\u2019t wish to transfer their contracts abroad have, I\u2019m happy to say, received a full refund from Blinkbox, so they can repurchase their lost books elsewhere.But as I\u2019ve often argued, it\u2019s users\u2019 history and data that make real their experience of reading \u2013 the highlights and bookmarks are analogous to the dog ears and underlinings you might make in a physical book. Even for those who move to Kobo, all highlights and bookmarks will be lost.Shamefully, the ebooks ecosystem still lacks an open annotation interchange format; perhaps this could be someone\u2019s next good work.", "tags": ["E-readers", "Ebooks", "Technology", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "A Kobo contract\u2019s great \u2026 if you\u2019re based in Canada"},{"date": "2015-02-17T08:06:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Rob da Bank has announced that his annual festival, Bestival, will stage a two-day event in Toronto, Canada.Taking place on 12-13 June on the shore of Lake Ontario, the new offshoot of the event has been a long time coming, says its organiser. \u201cWe have waited 12 years to decide to launch another Bestival outside of the UK and our beloved Bestival, on the Isle of Wight, which has grown into one of the most important festivals in the global calendar,\u201d said the former BBC Radio 1 DJ. \u201cIt took a really special city, and an even more exciting site, with Toronto and Toronto island, to make us take the leap.\u201d This is the latest addition to the expanding Bestival brand, after organisers announced a new Southampton two-day music festival. Common People will host as many as 30,000 fans for a mix of rock, indie, pop and dance performers on 23 and 24 May. Da Bank has also recently discussed plans to launch Bestival in Europe. Related: Chemical Brothers to headline Bestival 2015 Most recently, the UK branch of Bestival confirmed that the Saturday night lineup would be headlined by the Chemical Brothers, who will return to the Isle of Wight after previously topping the bill in 2007. Its fancy dress theme is \u201cSummer of Love\u201d, and Duran Duran and the Jacksons, Tame Impala, Flying Lotus and Jungle will also perform at the September event. ", "tags": ["Bestival", "Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock", "Music festivals", "Festivals", "Canada"], "title": "Rob da Bank's Bestival announces first Canada event"},{"date": "2015-01-08T13:02:49Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A handful of protesters shivering in \u201322C weather failed to cool the welcome Bill Cosby received when he brought his one-man show to a small Canadian city, his first live appearance since November.While news reports added three more names to the long list of women who have accused the embattled comedian of sexually abusing them, Cosby fans in Kitchener, Ontario, would hear none of it. \u201cInnocent until proven guilty!\u201d they declared repeatedly to media outside the 2,000-seat theatre, where Cosby played to an appreciative house about two-thirds full.The comedian\u2019s 90-minute set on Wednesday night, filled with shaggy dog stories of family life, ended with a brief standing ovation. Although he joked extensively about domestic violence, drawing the biggest laughs of the evening with stories of parental beatings and \u201cwhuppings\u201d, Cosby did not broach the accusations of sexual violence that are threatening to destroy his career.More pointedly, his fans did not stay away because of them. \u201cHe hasn\u2019t been charged with anything,\u201d said Bert, a local retiree. \u201cYou either go with the law or you don\u2019t.\u201dOn Wednesday, Phylicia Rashad, the actor who for 12 years played the role of Clair Huxtable, Cosby\u2019s TV wife, lent her support to the comedian. In an interview with US network ABC News she accused the media of waging a campaign against him without any proof. \u201cThis is not about the women, this is about something else,\u201d she said. \u201cThis is about the obliteration of legacy.\u201dBut some of those attending the show were more ambivalent. \u201cIf I had known about this months ago, when I bought the tickets, I probably wouldn\u2019t have come,\u201d said one elderly man, who declined to give his name. \u201cTwenty-odd allegations can\u2019t be wrong. But I hate to see justice done in the Twitterverse.\u201dMaking the decision to use her tickets was \u201ctough\u201d, said Dawn, who attended the show with her husband and three children. \u201cLet\u2019s just say this was awkward for us. I had two channels growing up, and The Cosby Show was the only show I ever watched. We spent more than $700 on tickets to see someone we\u2019ve supported for years.\u201dMore than laughs, Dawn came seeking an explanation. \u201cJust because you go to the show doesn\u2019t mean you think he\u2019s not guilty,\u201d she said. \u201cI want to hear what he has to say.\u201dAlthough Cosby made several jokes at the expense of his wife, he steered clear of any sexual innuendo. \u201cIt\u2019s good clean humour,\u201d said one young man, who gave his name as Gerald. But Gerald and his friend, Austin, were somewhat disappointed that no hecklers disrupted Cosby\u2019s performance. \u201cI\u2019m not going to lie to you, that\u2019s a big part of what brought me out today,\u201d Austin said.Wednesday\u2019s performance was Cosby\u2019s first since a November show in Florida. Since then, at least 10 US dates have been cancelled as a growing number of women have come forward to accuse the famously wholesome figure of sexual abuse \u2013 with many alleging that he drugged his victims to render them helpless before raping them.In a statement issued by his publicist after the show, Cosby thanked his fans \u201cfor giving me the opportunity to bring laughter back into your lives tonight\u201d.Two more Canadian performances were scheduled for Thursday night and Friday. Citing legal and financial necessity, the Chicago-based promoter Innovation Arts and Entertainment went ahead with the gigs despite widespread calls for their cancellation.\u201cIf the allegations are true, of course I find them abhorrent,\u201d company spokesman Adam Epstein told the Canadian press. But Epstein, like the audience he attracted to Cosby\u2019s Kitchener concert, still refused to believe the worst. \u201cWhat if it is not true?\u201d he asked.Ontario\u2019s premier, Kathleen Wynne, was less hesitant, citing the \u201cvery serious\u201d allegations against Cosby. \u201cUntil those are sorted out I certainly would not go to a performance,\u201d she said.Journalists outnumbered demonstrators on the frozen pavement outside the theatre prior to the performance by about 10 to one. \u201cRape is not a joke\u201d declared one much-photographed placard.Most protesters eventually sought the comfort of a nearby tavern, where a volunteer group mounted a fundraising concert for local rape-crisis facilities. Staged at the same time as the Cosby show, it attracted about 300 attendees, including Kitchener\u2019s mayor, Berry Vrbanovic.\u201cWe wanted to make a positive statement, to focus on survivors,\u201d said organiser Melanie Baker. The purpose of the event, she added, was to \u201cmake it easier community-wide for people who have experienced sexual assault to come forward\u201d.As for those who chose Cosby instead, Baker held no grudge. \u201cI hope they had a good time,\u201d she said. \u201cWe would have preferred the show was cancelled and I would prefer that everyone was on our side. But you can\u2019t reach people who don\u2019t want to hear.\u201d", "tags": ["Bill Cosby", "Canada", "World news", "Comedy", "Culture", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Bill Cosby performs in Canada amid sex abuse allegations"},{"date": "2015-03-30T11:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": " Related: Amazon warns Congress: US risks being left behind in delivery drone business Amazon is testing its drone delivery service at a secret site in Canada, following repeated warnings by the e-commerce giant that it would go outside the US to bypass what it sees as the US federal government\u2019s lethargic approach to the new technology.The largest internet retailer in the world is keeping the location of its new test site closely guarded. What can be revealed is that the company\u2019s formidable team of roboticists, software engineers, aeronautics experts and pioneers in remote sensing \u2013 including a former Nasa astronaut and the designer of the wingtip of the Boeing 787 \u2013 are now operating in British Columbia.The end goal is to utilise what Amazon sees as a slice of virgin airspace \u2013 above 200ft, where most buildings end, and below 500ft, where general aviation begins. Into that aerial slice the company plans to pour highly autonomous drones of less than 55lbs, flying through corridors 10 miles or longer at 50mph and carrying payloads of up to 5lbs that account for 86% of all the company\u2019s packages.Amazon has acquired a plot of open land lined by oak trees and firs, where it is conducting frequent experimental flights with the full blessing of the Canadian government. As if to underline the significance of the move, the test site is barely 2,000ft from the US border, which was clearly visible from where the Guardian stood on a recent visit.The Guardian was invited to visit Amazon\u2019s previously undisclosed Canadian drone test site, where it has been conducting outdoor flights for the past few months. For the duration of the visit, three plain-clothed security guards kept watch from the surrounding hills.Amazon\u2019s drone visionaries are taking the permissive culture on the Canadian side of the border and using it to fine-tune the essential features of what they hope will become a successful delivery-by-drone system. The Guardian witnessed tests of a hybrid drone that can take off and land vertically as well as fly horizontally.The company\u2019s decision to set up camp in Canada, after frustration in its attempts to persuade US regulators to allow it to launch its drones in Washington state, takes Amazon\u2019s quarrel with the federal government to a new level. Last week a senior Amazon executive appeared before a US Senate subcommittee and warned that there would be consequences if federal regulators continued to act as a drag on its ambitions to launch a drone delivery service called Prime Air.What Paul Misener, the company\u2019s vice-president for global public policy, did not tell senators was that at the very moment he appeared before them, Amazon drones were buzzing in the skies just north of the border.The company wants to offer its customers the ability to have packages dropped on their doorstep by flying robots within 30 minutes of ordering goods online. With innovation in the drone sector reaching lightning speeds, Amazon said it was not prepared to curtail its ambitions because of what Misener said was a lack of \u201cimpetus\u201d on the US side of the border.\u201cWe think that this new technology will provide huge benefits for our customers, who we think will love it, and for society more broadly,\u201d he told the Guardian a day after the subcommittee hearing. \u201cWhy would we wait?\u201dGur Kimchi, the architect and head of Prime Air, said the hope had always been to develop the drone service in the US, close to the company\u2019s Seattle headquarters. \u201cBut we\u2019re limited there to flying indoors and have been now for a very long time. So we do what\u2019s necessary \u2013 we go to places where we can test outside, in this case Canada.\u201dDrone technology is seen by many tech companies and aeronautics experts as the next frontier for innovation, with billions of dollars potentially in the balance. Traditionally, the US has been at the vanguard of both tech and aviation innovation, but the approach of the the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA), a US regulatory body, has been markedly tentative so far compared with that of regulators in Canada and Europe.Brendan Schulman, a New York-based specialist in drone law, said the Guardian\u2019s disclosure of Amazon\u2019s Canadian airstrip-in-exile should be a \u201cserious wake-up call to politicians and regulators\u201d. \u201cAmerica has led the world in aviation development,\u201d he said, \u201cbut for the first time in history we are at risk of losing out. To see one of our most innovative companies forced over the border is a stark example of the danger.\u201dUntil it opened its Canadian base, Amazon had been limited to indoor testing in its Seattle laboratory, backed up with research outposts in the UK \u2013 in Cambridge \u2013 and Israel. Requests by the company to begin outdoor testing on company land in Washington state have so far largely been rebuffed by the FAA.The federal agency recently published its guidelines for commercial use of small drones. The new rules will take at least two years to come into effect, a delay which Amazon finds unacceptable.Last July, the company applied for a so-called 333 exemption that would allow it to carry out outdoor experimentation immediately. Eight months later, the FAA has not responded.The federal body did agree last week, amid considerable fanfare, to award the company a so-called \u201cexperimental airworthiness certificate\u201d that can be used to test a specific model of drone. But it took so long for the certificate to come through that by the time it was granted, Amazon said it was obsolete.\u201cThe pace of innovation is so great at this point that our designs are changing very quickly,\u201d Misener told the Guardian.The contrast between the relative rigidity of the FAA\u2019s approach to drone testing and the relatively relaxed regulatory regime in Canada is startling. Under the Canadian system, Amazon has been granted a virtual carte blanche regarding its entire fleet of drones within its designated airspace, having gone through a licensing process that took just three weeks.By comparison, it takes the FAA many months to grant approval. Sources familiar with the process told the Guardian the US regulator insists on an initial 23-page application, a review of 75 pages of further documentation and a four-hour presentation at FAA headquarters followed by a three-hour site visit, together with ongoing reporting and record-keeping obligations.Early experiments in Canada have focused on a range of individual drone capabilities: sensors that can detect and avoid obstacles in a drone\u2019s path; link-loss procedures that control the aircraft should its connection with base be broken; stability in wind and turbulence; and environmental impact. Once each of these facets has been perfected, a new Amazon prototype drone will be assembled that Kimchi predicted would be utterly safe and wholly unlike anything seen before.\u201cWe are going to end up with unique shapes, unique vehicles. The most important part is to develop strong confidence that our system is safe and that we can demonstrate that to customers,\u201d he said.\u201cYou can build a very different world. It can be faster, and safer, and more economic and more environmentally friendly \u2013 all of those things, all at the same time.\u201dThe FAA argues that the US has a uniquely difficult job in safeguarding the nation\u2019s skies. It emphasises that it is responsible for the largest, most complex airspace in the world, which, unlike other countries\u2019, is used by a large general aviation fleet.\u201cDifferent laws and regulatory structures in other nations may allow them to act more quickly to approve certain UAS [drone] operations,\u201d an FAA spokesman told the Guardian. \u201cEverything we do is safety-oriented, and we base our approvals for unmanned aircraft operations on an assessment of the risks to other aircraft and to people and property on the ground. We have been working diligently with Amazon to get the information we need.\u201dMisener said he respected the FAA\u2019s desire to keep America\u2019s airspace as safe as possible. \u201cThat\u2019s our top priority in Amazon Prime Air too,\u201d he said.But he questioned the FAA\u2019s portrayal of America\u2019s unique position: \u201cThe US does have a complex airspace, but it\u2019s no more complex than in Europe, where regulators do allow testing, and it\u2019s certainly not complex beneath 500ft or in rural areas of Washington state where we had planned to operate.\u201dThe numbers speak for themselves. The FAA has received more than 750 requests for outdoor drone testing licenses from American businesses, Amazon\u2019s among them, but so far has granted just 48. Canada\u2019s equivalent civil aviation authority, Transport Canada, released 1,672 commercial drone certificates last year alone.Amazon will will result in other large American companies like Google and Facebook looking at our market as wellDiana Cooper, head of drones and robotics at the Canadian law firm Labarge Weinstein, said that in recent months several US companies had contacted her to inquire about opportunities in her country \u2013 a phenomenon that she believes will be boosted further by Amazon\u2019s decision to join the fold. \u201cAmazon will definitely be a trendsetter,\u201d she said, \u201cand will result in a lot of other large American companies like Google and Facebook looking at our market as well.\u201dAnother battle is already on the horizon. The FAA has stated bluntly it does not believe that drones can be flown safely under their own autonomous control, and is insisting that humans must keep them within eyesight at all times. That is a deal-breaker for Amazon Prime Air, which could only function if drones were able to fly well beyond visual line of sight.Here too, the contrast between the uncertainty of the US regulators and the can-do attitude of their Canadian and European equivalents is striking. A huge area of Alberta covering 700 square nautical miles of restricted airspace has already been set aside to allow for drones to be tested beyond visual line of sight. In Europe a similar facility is being opened in Wales.Misener believes that with such opportunities exploding beyond US borders, it is only a matter of time before the FAA is forced to accept that drones are here to stay.\u201cThis technology is going to work,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s coming.\u201d", "tags": ["Drones (non-military)", "Amazon.com", "Technology", "E-commerce", "Internet", "Obama administration", "US news", "Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Air transport"], "title": "Amazon tests delivery drones at secret Canada site after US frustration"},{"date": "2015-01-13T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "My Swiss cousins aren\u2019t interested in Toronto\u2019s boutiques and galleries \u2013 Europe has better \u2013 they want to see wilderness. So, leaving Guelph, we take Highway 6 North, up the Bruce Peninsula, the narrowing spine of escarpment that divides Georgian Bay from Lake Huron. Its western edge is lined with sandy beaches, but on the east side dolomite cliffs rise vertically from the blue water of the bay. At Cyprus Lake, we hike out to the Grotto, where a ribbon of limestone, crowned with elegant paper birches, forms an arch over a clear shallow pool.We return inland along the Marr Lake trail, traversing the great expanse of round pebbles between the little lake and the bay. A ringneck snake crosses the path, slate-coloured, with delicate black lines along its back and a tiny brown head; the neck-ring is merely a reddish spot.It\u2019s October, already cold. Rain begins to fall and we hurry back to the van.The peninsula and the highway end at the harbour village of Tobermory. We check into the Princess Hotel. The dinner special is fish and chips: Georgian Bay yellow perch. We go to bed early and fall asleep to the sound of rain on the roof.At the tip of the Bruce, the escarpment submerges, scattering a cluster of rocky islands. In these treacherous shoals lie the wrecks of many 19th-century Great Lakes schooners, and the area is protected as \u201cFathom Five\u201d, an underwater national park. A few kilometres north, the escarpment rises again to form the largest island on a freshwater lake in the world \u2013 Manitoulin. In the morning, we board the MS Chi-Cheemaun ferry, and when we disembark at South Baymouth, two hours later, we are in the northland. The trees are at their peak of autumn colour; what symbol other than the scarlet leaf of the sugar maple could say \u201cCanada\u201d so authentically?At Red Lodge on the shore of Lake Manitou (a lake on an island in a lake!), the only other guests are a group of schoolteachers on a weekend retreat. Brigitte is puzzled to hear their unfamiliar language; it\u2019s Ojibwe. Much of Manitoulin is unceded indigenous land, and the names of its towns reflect the coexistence of European and native traditions: Providence Bay and Silver Water; M\u2019Chigeeng, Wikwemikong and Zhiibaahaasing.On Sunday, taking the advice of the lodge\u2019s proprietor, we drive to Kagawong, where the river of that name descends over Bridal Veil Falls and flows swiftly out to North Channel. The salmon run is at its height and the Kagawong river is filled with the fish, desperately struggling upstream to spawn in the pool beneath the falls. The river is partly diverted through a channel into a hydroelectric plant. Electrical current is generated at the expense of river current. The diminished flow gives the fish less depth to clear the rocks and fallen logs. Many fail to reach their destination; dying and dead salmon lie along the banks of the river. A local man walking his dog along the trail says: \u201cBy the time they spawn, most of their flesh has turned to mush, and even the bears won\u2019t eat \u2019em.\u201dThe Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Canada: Bruce beauty"},{"date": "2015-03-25T12:49:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Name: TriptoesBased: BathWebsite: www.triptoes.comTriptoes, which launched January 2014, was started from a personal passion and a vision to provide family-friendly holidays to Canada for UK families. Our mission is to become the leading provider of unforgettable family holidays to Canada, removing stress from the planning process and ensuring that each family that travels with us experiences the best that this vast and beautiful country has to offer. In October, we won the TravelMole award for Best Accommodation Website 2014 as voted by our peers in the travel industry. During the past year, we have focussed on developing our brand and reputation as a niche family specialist and have been quoted as a family travel specialist in the Globe & Mail, Canada\u2019s leading newspaper. We have grown from being a provider of accommodation-only holidays to developing our adventure product and tailor-made fly-drive itineraries. Over the last 18 months, we have received grant assistance from our local enterprise partnership growth fund and we have just registered for our second year in a row to attend Rendez-vous Canada, the country\u2019s leading tourism marketplace at Niagara Falls in May. Jessica Boston is managing director of Triptoes Canada", "tags": ["Small Business Showcase"], "title": "Startup of the year 2014: Triptoes Canada"},{"date": "2015-03-08T10:30:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In recent columns, I\u2019ve praised Tesco\u2019s Blinkbox Books service for honouring its commitment to customers by transferring its libraries to Kobo, a competing e-reading service of long standing. Blinkbox also distinguished itself by putting the source code for almost its entire system online, free, meaning someone could build a whole new service based on its work. So far, so classy.However, a couple of former Blinkbox customers have been in touch to voice some disquiet at the process. As they point out, unlike Blinkbooks, Kobo is based abroad, in Canada, and so a different set of laws apply when it comes to its management of customer\u00a0data.For example, while businesses and government departments in the UK must comply with the Data Protection Act, the Canadian parliament is currently debating a new piece of legislation, the Information Sharing Act, which will allow all departments of government to share information in ways that are not currently permitted in the UK.While it\u2019s highly unlikely that any Kobo users will end up on a Canadian watchlist, the point remains: ship your data abroad, and it falls into other jurisdictions and other legal systems that you don\u2019t necessarily vote for or understand. It\u2019s a long way from the local library.Those dissenters who didn\u2019t wish to transfer their contracts abroad have, I\u2019m happy to say, received a full refund from Blinkbox, so they can repurchase their lost books elsewhere.But as I\u2019ve often argued, it\u2019s users\u2019 history and data that make real their experience of reading \u2013 the highlights and bookmarks are analogous to the dog ears and underlinings you might make in a physical book. Even for those who move to Kobo, all highlights and bookmarks will be lost.Shamefully, the ebooks ecosystem still lacks an open annotation interchange format; perhaps this could be someone\u2019s next good work.", "tags": ["E-readers", "Ebooks", "Technology", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "A Kobo contract\u2019s great \u2026 if you\u2019re based in Canada"},{"date": "2015-02-17T08:06:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Rob da Bank has announced that his annual festival, Bestival, will stage a two-day event in Toronto, Canada.Taking place on 12-13 June on the shore of Lake Ontario, the new offshoot of the event has been a long time coming, says its organiser. \u201cWe have waited 12 years to decide to launch another Bestival outside of the UK and our beloved Bestival, on the Isle of Wight, which has grown into one of the most important festivals in the global calendar,\u201d said the former BBC Radio 1 DJ. \u201cIt took a really special city, and an even more exciting site, with Toronto and Toronto island, to make us take the leap.\u201d This is the latest addition to the expanding Bestival brand, after organisers announced a new Southampton two-day music festival. Common People will host as many as 30,000 fans for a mix of rock, indie, pop and dance performers on 23 and 24 May. Da Bank has also recently discussed plans to launch Bestival in Europe. Related: Chemical Brothers to headline Bestival 2015 Most recently, the UK branch of Bestival confirmed that the Saturday night lineup would be headlined by the Chemical Brothers, who will return to the Isle of Wight after previously topping the bill in 2007. Its fancy dress theme is \u201cSummer of Love\u201d, and Duran Duran and the Jacksons, Tame Impala, Flying Lotus and Jungle will also perform at the September event. ", "tags": ["Bestival", "Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock", "Music festivals", "Festivals", "Canada"], "title": "Rob da Bank's Bestival announces first Canada event"},{"date": "2015-01-08T13:02:49Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A handful of protesters shivering in \u201322C weather failed to cool the welcome Bill Cosby received when he brought his one-man show to a small Canadian city, his first live appearance since November.While news reports added three more names to the long list of women who have accused the embattled comedian of sexually abusing them, Cosby fans in Kitchener, Ontario, would hear none of it. \u201cInnocent until proven guilty!\u201d they declared repeatedly to media outside the 2,000-seat theatre, where Cosby played to an appreciative house about two-thirds full.The comedian\u2019s 90-minute set on Wednesday night, filled with shaggy dog stories of family life, ended with a brief standing ovation. Although he joked extensively about domestic violence, drawing the biggest laughs of the evening with stories of parental beatings and \u201cwhuppings\u201d, Cosby did not broach the accusations of sexual violence that are threatening to destroy his career.More pointedly, his fans did not stay away because of them. \u201cHe hasn\u2019t been charged with anything,\u201d said Bert, a local retiree. \u201cYou either go with the law or you don\u2019t.\u201dOn Wednesday, Phylicia Rashad, the actor who for 12 years played the role of Clair Huxtable, Cosby\u2019s TV wife, lent her support to the comedian. In an interview with US network ABC News she accused the media of waging a campaign against him without any proof. \u201cThis is not about the women, this is about something else,\u201d she said. \u201cThis is about the obliteration of legacy.\u201dBut some of those attending the show were more ambivalent. \u201cIf I had known about this months ago, when I bought the tickets, I probably wouldn\u2019t have come,\u201d said one elderly man, who declined to give his name. \u201cTwenty-odd allegations can\u2019t be wrong. But I hate to see justice done in the Twitterverse.\u201dMaking the decision to use her tickets was \u201ctough\u201d, said Dawn, who attended the show with her husband and three children. \u201cLet\u2019s just say this was awkward for us. I had two channels growing up, and The Cosby Show was the only show I ever watched. We spent more than $700 on tickets to see someone we\u2019ve supported for years.\u201dMore than laughs, Dawn came seeking an explanation. \u201cJust because you go to the show doesn\u2019t mean you think he\u2019s not guilty,\u201d she said. \u201cI want to hear what he has to say.\u201dAlthough Cosby made several jokes at the expense of his wife, he steered clear of any sexual innuendo. \u201cIt\u2019s good clean humour,\u201d said one young man, who gave his name as Gerald. But Gerald and his friend, Austin, were somewhat disappointed that no hecklers disrupted Cosby\u2019s performance. \u201cI\u2019m not going to lie to you, that\u2019s a big part of what brought me out today,\u201d Austin said.Wednesday\u2019s performance was Cosby\u2019s first since a November show in Florida. Since then, at least 10 US dates have been cancelled as a growing number of women have come forward to accuse the famously wholesome figure of sexual abuse \u2013 with many alleging that he drugged his victims to render them helpless before raping them.In a statement issued by his publicist after the show, Cosby thanked his fans \u201cfor giving me the opportunity to bring laughter back into your lives tonight\u201d.Two more Canadian performances were scheduled for Thursday night and Friday. Citing legal and financial necessity, the Chicago-based promoter Innovation Arts and Entertainment went ahead with the gigs despite widespread calls for their cancellation.\u201cIf the allegations are true, of course I find them abhorrent,\u201d company spokesman Adam Epstein told the Canadian press. But Epstein, like the audience he attracted to Cosby\u2019s Kitchener concert, still refused to believe the worst. \u201cWhat if it is not true?\u201d he asked.Ontario\u2019s premier, Kathleen Wynne, was less hesitant, citing the \u201cvery serious\u201d allegations against Cosby. \u201cUntil those are sorted out I certainly would not go to a performance,\u201d she said.Journalists outnumbered demonstrators on the frozen pavement outside the theatre prior to the performance by about 10 to one. \u201cRape is not a joke\u201d declared one much-photographed placard.Most protesters eventually sought the comfort of a nearby tavern, where a volunteer group mounted a fundraising concert for local rape-crisis facilities. Staged at the same time as the Cosby show, it attracted about 300 attendees, including Kitchener\u2019s mayor, Berry Vrbanovic.\u201cWe wanted to make a positive statement, to focus on survivors,\u201d said organiser Melanie Baker. The purpose of the event, she added, was to \u201cmake it easier community-wide for people who have experienced sexual assault to come forward\u201d.As for those who chose Cosby instead, Baker held no grudge. \u201cI hope they had a good time,\u201d she said. \u201cWe would have preferred the show was cancelled and I would prefer that everyone was on our side. But you can\u2019t reach people who don\u2019t want to hear.\u201d", "tags": ["Bill Cosby", "Canada", "World news", "Comedy", "Culture", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Bill Cosby performs in Canada amid sex abuse allegations"},{"date": "2015-03-30T11:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": " Related: Amazon warns Congress: US risks being left behind in delivery drone business Amazon is testing its drone delivery service at a secret site in Canada, following repeated warnings by the e-commerce giant that it would go outside the US to bypass what it sees as the US federal government\u2019s lethargic approach to the new technology.The largest internet retailer in the world is keeping the location of its new test site closely guarded. What can be revealed is that the company\u2019s formidable team of roboticists, software engineers, aeronautics experts and pioneers in remote sensing \u2013 including a former Nasa astronaut and the designer of the wingtip of the Boeing 787 \u2013 are now operating in British Columbia.The end goal is to utilise what Amazon sees as a slice of virgin airspace \u2013 above 200ft, where most buildings end, and below 500ft, where general aviation begins. Into that aerial slice the company plans to pour highly autonomous drones of less than 55lbs, flying through corridors 10 miles or longer at 50mph and carrying payloads of up to 5lbs that account for 86% of all the company\u2019s packages.Amazon has acquired a plot of open land lined by oak trees and firs, where it is conducting frequent experimental flights with the full blessing of the Canadian government. As if to underline the significance of the move, the test site is barely 2,000ft from the US border, which was clearly visible from where the Guardian stood on a recent visit.The Guardian was invited to visit Amazon\u2019s previously undisclosed Canadian drone test site, where it has been conducting outdoor flights for the past few months. For the duration of the visit, three plain-clothed security guards kept watch from the surrounding hills.Amazon\u2019s drone visionaries are taking the permissive culture on the Canadian side of the border and using it to fine-tune the essential features of what they hope will become a successful delivery-by-drone system. The Guardian witnessed tests of a hybrid drone that can take off and land vertically as well as fly horizontally.The company\u2019s decision to set up camp in Canada, after frustration in its attempts to persuade US regulators to allow it to launch its drones in Washington state, takes Amazon\u2019s quarrel with the federal government to a new level. Last week a senior Amazon executive appeared before a US Senate subcommittee and warned that there would be consequences if federal regulators continued to act as a drag on its ambitions to launch a drone delivery service called Prime Air.What Paul Misener, the company\u2019s vice-president for global public policy, did not tell senators was that at the very moment he appeared before them, Amazon drones were buzzing in the skies just north of the border.The company wants to offer its customers the ability to have packages dropped on their doorstep by flying robots within 30 minutes of ordering goods online. With innovation in the drone sector reaching lightning speeds, Amazon said it was not prepared to curtail its ambitions because of what Misener said was a lack of \u201cimpetus\u201d on the US side of the border.\u201cWe think that this new technology will provide huge benefits for our customers, who we think will love it, and for society more broadly,\u201d he told the Guardian a day after the subcommittee hearing. \u201cWhy would we wait?\u201dGur Kimchi, the architect and head of Prime Air, said the hope had always been to develop the drone service in the US, close to the company\u2019s Seattle headquarters. \u201cBut we\u2019re limited there to flying indoors and have been now for a very long time. So we do what\u2019s necessary \u2013 we go to places where we can test outside, in this case Canada.\u201dDrone technology is seen by many tech companies and aeronautics experts as the next frontier for innovation, with billions of dollars potentially in the balance. Traditionally, the US has been at the vanguard of both tech and aviation innovation, but the approach of the the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA), a US regulatory body, has been markedly tentative so far compared with that of regulators in Canada and Europe.Brendan Schulman, a New York-based specialist in drone law, said the Guardian\u2019s disclosure of Amazon\u2019s Canadian airstrip-in-exile should be a \u201cserious wake-up call to politicians and regulators\u201d. \u201cAmerica has led the world in aviation development,\u201d he said, \u201cbut for the first time in history we are at risk of losing out. To see one of our most innovative companies forced over the border is a stark example of the danger.\u201dUntil it opened its Canadian base, Amazon had been limited to indoor testing in its Seattle laboratory, backed up with research outposts in the UK \u2013 in Cambridge \u2013 and Israel. Requests by the company to begin outdoor testing on company land in Washington state have so far largely been rebuffed by the FAA.The federal agency recently published its guidelines for commercial use of small drones. The new rules will take at least two years to come into effect, a delay which Amazon finds unacceptable.Last July, the company applied for a so-called 333 exemption that would allow it to carry out outdoor experimentation immediately. Eight months later, the FAA has not responded.The federal body did agree last week, amid considerable fanfare, to award the company a so-called \u201cexperimental airworthiness certificate\u201d that can be used to test a specific model of drone. But it took so long for the certificate to come through that by the time it was granted, Amazon said it was obsolete.\u201cThe pace of innovation is so great at this point that our designs are changing very quickly,\u201d Misener told the Guardian.The contrast between the relative rigidity of the FAA\u2019s approach to drone testing and the relatively relaxed regulatory regime in Canada is startling. Under the Canadian system, Amazon has been granted a virtual carte blanche regarding its entire fleet of drones within its designated airspace, having gone through a licensing process that took just three weeks.By comparison, it takes the FAA many months to grant approval. Sources familiar with the process told the Guardian the US regulator insists on an initial 23-page application, a review of 75 pages of further documentation and a four-hour presentation at FAA headquarters followed by a three-hour site visit, together with ongoing reporting and record-keeping obligations.Early experiments in Canada have focused on a range of individual drone capabilities: sensors that can detect and avoid obstacles in a drone\u2019s path; link-loss procedures that control the aircraft should its connection with base be broken; stability in wind and turbulence; and environmental impact. Once each of these facets has been perfected, a new Amazon prototype drone will be assembled that Kimchi predicted would be utterly safe and wholly unlike anything seen before.\u201cWe are going to end up with unique shapes, unique vehicles. The most important part is to develop strong confidence that our system is safe and that we can demonstrate that to customers,\u201d he said.\u201cYou can build a very different world. It can be faster, and safer, and more economic and more environmentally friendly \u2013 all of those things, all at the same time.\u201dThe FAA argues that the US has a uniquely difficult job in safeguarding the nation\u2019s skies. It emphasises that it is responsible for the largest, most complex airspace in the world, which, unlike other countries\u2019, is used by a large general aviation fleet.\u201cDifferent laws and regulatory structures in other nations may allow them to act more quickly to approve certain UAS [drone] operations,\u201d an FAA spokesman told the Guardian. \u201cEverything we do is safety-oriented, and we base our approvals for unmanned aircraft operations on an assessment of the risks to other aircraft and to people and property on the ground. We have been working diligently with Amazon to get the information we need.\u201dMisener said he respected the FAA\u2019s desire to keep America\u2019s airspace as safe as possible. \u201cThat\u2019s our top priority in Amazon Prime Air too,\u201d he said.But he questioned the FAA\u2019s portrayal of America\u2019s unique position: \u201cThe US does have a complex airspace, but it\u2019s no more complex than in Europe, where regulators do allow testing, and it\u2019s certainly not complex beneath 500ft or in rural areas of Washington state where we had planned to operate.\u201dThe numbers speak for themselves. The FAA has received more than 750 requests for outdoor drone testing licenses from American businesses, Amazon\u2019s among them, but so far has granted just 48. Canada\u2019s equivalent civil aviation authority, Transport Canada, released 1,672 commercial drone certificates last year alone.Amazon will will result in other large American companies like Google and Facebook looking at our market as wellDiana Cooper, head of drones and robotics at the Canadian law firm Labarge Weinstein, said that in recent months several US companies had contacted her to inquire about opportunities in her country \u2013 a phenomenon that she believes will be boosted further by Amazon\u2019s decision to join the fold. \u201cAmazon will definitely be a trendsetter,\u201d she said, \u201cand will result in a lot of other large American companies like Google and Facebook looking at our market as well.\u201dAnother battle is already on the horizon. The FAA has stated bluntly it does not believe that drones can be flown safely under their own autonomous control, and is insisting that humans must keep them within eyesight at all times. That is a deal-breaker for Amazon Prime Air, which could only function if drones were able to fly well beyond visual line of sight.Here too, the contrast between the uncertainty of the US regulators and the can-do attitude of their Canadian and European equivalents is striking. A huge area of Alberta covering 700 square nautical miles of restricted airspace has already been set aside to allow for drones to be tested beyond visual line of sight. In Europe a similar facility is being opened in Wales.Misener believes that with such opportunities exploding beyond US borders, it is only a matter of time before the FAA is forced to accept that drones are here to stay.\u201cThis technology is going to work,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s coming.\u201d", "tags": ["Drones (non-military)", "Amazon.com", "Technology", "E-commerce", "Internet", "Obama administration", "US news", "Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Air transport"], "title": "Amazon tests delivery drones at secret Canada site after US frustration"},{"date": "2015-01-14T01:15:19Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A Briton who was among three climbers who died in a mountain fall in a remote area of western Canada has been named as Neil Charles Mackenzie, who was originally from Scotland.His body, and that of a Canadian and German climber, were found in a crevasse below Joffre Peak in British Columbia on Monday after falling in the Pemberton area, which is north of the resort town of Whistler and popular with outdoor sports enthusiasts.The Coroners Service in British Columbia identified them as Elena Cernicka, 35, of North Vancouver, Stephanie Grothe, a 30-year-old German, and Mackenzie, who was 31.All three were part of a group who travelled to Joffre Lakes Provincial Park on Saturday. While the rest of the group engaged in other activities, they went ice-climbing on the following day but sparked a search when they did not return as planned.The body of one was located while search and rescue service staff found the other two on Monday after they had apparently fallen more than 600 metres down a narrow gulley. All three were pronounced dead at the scene.Authorities believed that the climbers initially reached the area on skis and had planned to climb higher, using crampons.Grothe was a PhD candidate at the University of British Columbia while Mackenzie had recently arrived from Scotland and was living in Vancouver, according to local media.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Briton who died in Canada mountain fall named as Neil Charles Mackenzie"},{"date": "2015-01-13T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "My Swiss cousins aren\u2019t interested in Toronto\u2019s boutiques and galleries \u2013 Europe has better \u2013 they want to see wilderness. So, leaving Guelph, we take Highway 6 North, up the Bruce Peninsula, the narrowing spine of escarpment that divides Georgian Bay from Lake Huron. Its western edge is lined with sandy beaches, but on the east side dolomite cliffs rise vertically from the blue water of the bay. At Cyprus Lake, we hike out to the Grotto, where a ribbon of limestone, crowned with elegant paper birches, forms an arch over a clear shallow pool.We return inland along the Marr Lake trail, traversing the great expanse of round pebbles between the little lake and the bay. A ringneck snake crosses the path, slate-coloured, with delicate black lines along its back and a tiny brown head; the neck-ring is merely a reddish spot.It\u2019s October, already cold. Rain begins to fall and we hurry back to the van.The peninsula and the highway end at the harbour village of Tobermory. We check into the Princess Hotel. The dinner special is fish and chips: Georgian Bay yellow perch. We go to bed early and fall asleep to the sound of rain on the roof.At the tip of the Bruce, the escarpment submerges, scattering a cluster of rocky islands. In these treacherous shoals lie the wrecks of many 19th-century Great Lakes schooners, and the area is protected as \u201cFathom Five\u201d, an underwater national park. A few kilometres north, the escarpment rises again to form the largest island on a freshwater lake in the world \u2013 Manitoulin. In the morning, we board the MS Chi-Cheemaun ferry, and when we disembark at South Baymouth, two hours later, we are in the northland. The trees are at their peak of autumn colour; what symbol other than the scarlet leaf of the sugar maple could say \u201cCanada\u201d so authentically?At Red Lodge on the shore of Lake Manitou (a lake on an island in a lake!), the only other guests are a group of schoolteachers on a weekend retreat. Brigitte is puzzled to hear their unfamiliar language; it\u2019s Ojibwe. Much of Manitoulin is unceded indigenous land, and the names of its towns reflect the coexistence of European and native traditions: Providence Bay and Silver Water; M\u2019Chigeeng, Wikwemikong and Zhiibaahaasing.On Sunday, taking the advice of the lodge\u2019s proprietor, we drive to Kagawong, where the river of that name descends over Bridal Veil Falls and flows swiftly out to North Channel. The salmon run is at its height and the Kagawong river is filled with the fish, desperately struggling upstream to spawn in the pool beneath the falls. The river is partly diverted through a channel into a hydroelectric plant. Electrical current is generated at the expense of river current. The diminished flow gives the fish less depth to clear the rocks and fallen logs. Many fail to reach their destination; dying and dead salmon lie along the banks of the river. A local man walking his dog along the trail says: \u201cBy the time they spawn, most of their flesh has turned to mush, and even the bears won\u2019t eat \u2019em.\u201dThe Guardian Weekly regularly publishes a Letter from one of its readers from around the world. We welcome submissions \u2013 they should focus on giving a clear sense of a place and its people. Please send them to weekly.letters@theguardian.com", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Letter from Canada: Bruce beauty"},{"date": "2015-03-25T12:49:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Name: TriptoesBased: BathWebsite: www.triptoes.comTriptoes, which launched January 2014, was started from a personal passion and a vision to provide family-friendly holidays to Canada for UK families. Our mission is to become the leading provider of unforgettable family holidays to Canada, removing stress from the planning process and ensuring that each family that travels with us experiences the best that this vast and beautiful country has to offer. In October, we won the TravelMole award for Best Accommodation Website 2014 as voted by our peers in the travel industry. During the past year, we have focussed on developing our brand and reputation as a niche family specialist and have been quoted as a family travel specialist in the Globe & Mail, Canada\u2019s leading newspaper. We have grown from being a provider of accommodation-only holidays to developing our adventure product and tailor-made fly-drive itineraries. Over the last 18 months, we have received grant assistance from our local enterprise partnership growth fund and we have just registered for our second year in a row to attend Rendez-vous Canada, the country\u2019s leading tourism marketplace at Niagara Falls in May. Jessica Boston is managing director of Triptoes Canada", "tags": ["Small Business Showcase"], "title": "Startup of the year 2014: Triptoes Canada"},{"date": "2015-03-08T10:30:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "In recent columns, I\u2019ve praised Tesco\u2019s Blinkbox Books service for honouring its commitment to customers by transferring its libraries to Kobo, a competing e-reading service of long standing. Blinkbox also distinguished itself by putting the source code for almost its entire system online, free, meaning someone could build a whole new service based on its work. So far, so classy.However, a couple of former Blinkbox customers have been in touch to voice some disquiet at the process. As they point out, unlike Blinkbooks, Kobo is based abroad, in Canada, and so a different set of laws apply when it comes to its management of customer\u00a0data.For example, while businesses and government departments in the UK must comply with the Data Protection Act, the Canadian parliament is currently debating a new piece of legislation, the Information Sharing Act, which will allow all departments of government to share information in ways that are not currently permitted in the UK.While it\u2019s highly unlikely that any Kobo users will end up on a Canadian watchlist, the point remains: ship your data abroad, and it falls into other jurisdictions and other legal systems that you don\u2019t necessarily vote for or understand. It\u2019s a long way from the local library.Those dissenters who didn\u2019t wish to transfer their contracts abroad have, I\u2019m happy to say, received a full refund from Blinkbox, so they can repurchase their lost books elsewhere.But as I\u2019ve often argued, it\u2019s users\u2019 history and data that make real their experience of reading \u2013 the highlights and bookmarks are analogous to the dog ears and underlinings you might make in a physical book. Even for those who move to Kobo, all highlights and bookmarks will be lost.Shamefully, the ebooks ecosystem still lacks an open annotation interchange format; perhaps this could be someone\u2019s next good work.", "tags": ["E-readers", "Ebooks", "Technology", "Books", "Culture"], "title": "A Kobo contract\u2019s great \u2026 if you\u2019re based in Canada"},{"date": "2015-02-17T08:06:26Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Rob da Bank has announced that his annual festival, Bestival, will stage a two-day event in Toronto, Canada.Taking place on 12-13 June on the shore of Lake Ontario, the new offshoot of the event has been a long time coming, says its organiser. \u201cWe have waited 12 years to decide to launch another Bestival outside of the UK and our beloved Bestival, on the Isle of Wight, which has grown into one of the most important festivals in the global calendar,\u201d said the former BBC Radio 1 DJ. \u201cIt took a really special city, and an even more exciting site, with Toronto and Toronto island, to make us take the leap.\u201d This is the latest addition to the expanding Bestival brand, after organisers announced a new Southampton two-day music festival. Common People will host as many as 30,000 fans for a mix of rock, indie, pop and dance performers on 23 and 24 May. Da Bank has also recently discussed plans to launch Bestival in Europe. Related: Chemical Brothers to headline Bestival 2015 Most recently, the UK branch of Bestival confirmed that the Saturday night lineup would be headlined by the Chemical Brothers, who will return to the Isle of Wight after previously topping the bill in 2007. Its fancy dress theme is \u201cSummer of Love\u201d, and Duran Duran and the Jacksons, Tame Impala, Flying Lotus and Jungle will also perform at the September event. ", "tags": ["Bestival", "Music", "Culture", "Pop and rock", "Music festivals", "Festivals", "Canada"], "title": "Rob da Bank's Bestival announces first Canada event"},{"date": "2015-01-08T13:02:49Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A handful of protesters shivering in \u201322C weather failed to cool the welcome Bill Cosby received when he brought his one-man show to a small Canadian city, his first live appearance since November.While news reports added three more names to the long list of women who have accused the embattled comedian of sexually abusing them, Cosby fans in Kitchener, Ontario, would hear none of it. \u201cInnocent until proven guilty!\u201d they declared repeatedly to media outside the 2,000-seat theatre, where Cosby played to an appreciative house about two-thirds full.The comedian\u2019s 90-minute set on Wednesday night, filled with shaggy dog stories of family life, ended with a brief standing ovation. Although he joked extensively about domestic violence, drawing the biggest laughs of the evening with stories of parental beatings and \u201cwhuppings\u201d, Cosby did not broach the accusations of sexual violence that are threatening to destroy his career.More pointedly, his fans did not stay away because of them. \u201cHe hasn\u2019t been charged with anything,\u201d said Bert, a local retiree. \u201cYou either go with the law or you don\u2019t.\u201dOn Wednesday, Phylicia Rashad, the actor who for 12 years played the role of Clair Huxtable, Cosby\u2019s TV wife, lent her support to the comedian. In an interview with US network ABC News she accused the media of waging a campaign against him without any proof. \u201cThis is not about the women, this is about something else,\u201d she said. \u201cThis is about the obliteration of legacy.\u201dBut some of those attending the show were more ambivalent. \u201cIf I had known about this months ago, when I bought the tickets, I probably wouldn\u2019t have come,\u201d said one elderly man, who declined to give his name. \u201cTwenty-odd allegations can\u2019t be wrong. But I hate to see justice done in the Twitterverse.\u201dMaking the decision to use her tickets was \u201ctough\u201d, said Dawn, who attended the show with her husband and three children. \u201cLet\u2019s just say this was awkward for us. I had two channels growing up, and The Cosby Show was the only show I ever watched. We spent more than $700 on tickets to see someone we\u2019ve supported for years.\u201dMore than laughs, Dawn came seeking an explanation. \u201cJust because you go to the show doesn\u2019t mean you think he\u2019s not guilty,\u201d she said. \u201cI want to hear what he has to say.\u201dAlthough Cosby made several jokes at the expense of his wife, he steered clear of any sexual innuendo. \u201cIt\u2019s good clean humour,\u201d said one young man, who gave his name as Gerald. But Gerald and his friend, Austin, were somewhat disappointed that no hecklers disrupted Cosby\u2019s performance. \u201cI\u2019m not going to lie to you, that\u2019s a big part of what brought me out today,\u201d Austin said.Wednesday\u2019s performance was Cosby\u2019s first since a November show in Florida. Since then, at least 10 US dates have been cancelled as a growing number of women have come forward to accuse the famously wholesome figure of sexual abuse \u2013 with many alleging that he drugged his victims to render them helpless before raping them.In a statement issued by his publicist after the show, Cosby thanked his fans \u201cfor giving me the opportunity to bring laughter back into your lives tonight\u201d.Two more Canadian performances were scheduled for Thursday night and Friday. Citing legal and financial necessity, the Chicago-based promoter Innovation Arts and Entertainment went ahead with the gigs despite widespread calls for their cancellation.\u201cIf the allegations are true, of course I find them abhorrent,\u201d company spokesman Adam Epstein told the Canadian press. But Epstein, like the audience he attracted to Cosby\u2019s Kitchener concert, still refused to believe the worst. \u201cWhat if it is not true?\u201d he asked.Ontario\u2019s premier, Kathleen Wynne, was less hesitant, citing the \u201cvery serious\u201d allegations against Cosby. \u201cUntil those are sorted out I certainly would not go to a performance,\u201d she said.Journalists outnumbered demonstrators on the frozen pavement outside the theatre prior to the performance by about 10 to one. \u201cRape is not a joke\u201d declared one much-photographed placard.Most protesters eventually sought the comfort of a nearby tavern, where a volunteer group mounted a fundraising concert for local rape-crisis facilities. Staged at the same time as the Cosby show, it attracted about 300 attendees, including Kitchener\u2019s mayor, Berry Vrbanovic.\u201cWe wanted to make a positive statement, to focus on survivors,\u201d said organiser Melanie Baker. The purpose of the event, she added, was to \u201cmake it easier community-wide for people who have experienced sexual assault to come forward\u201d.As for those who chose Cosby instead, Baker held no grudge. \u201cI hope they had a good time,\u201d she said. \u201cWe would have preferred the show was cancelled and I would prefer that everyone was on our side. But you can\u2019t reach people who don\u2019t want to hear.\u201d", "tags": ["Bill Cosby", "Canada", "World news", "Comedy", "Culture", "US news", "Americas"], "title": "Bill Cosby performs in Canada amid sex abuse allegations"},{"date": "2015-03-30T11:00:00Z", "country": "canada", "content": " Related: Amazon warns Congress: US risks being left behind in delivery drone business Amazon is testing its drone delivery service at a secret site in Canada, following repeated warnings by the e-commerce giant that it would go outside the US to bypass what it sees as the US federal government\u2019s lethargic approach to the new technology.The largest internet retailer in the world is keeping the location of its new test site closely guarded. What can be revealed is that the company\u2019s formidable team of roboticists, software engineers, aeronautics experts and pioneers in remote sensing \u2013 including a former Nasa astronaut and the designer of the wingtip of the Boeing 787 \u2013 are now operating in British Columbia.The end goal is to utilise what Amazon sees as a slice of virgin airspace \u2013 above 200ft, where most buildings end, and below 500ft, where general aviation begins. Into that aerial slice the company plans to pour highly autonomous drones of less than 55lbs, flying through corridors 10 miles or longer at 50mph and carrying payloads of up to 5lbs that account for 86% of all the company\u2019s packages.Amazon has acquired a plot of open land lined by oak trees and firs, where it is conducting frequent experimental flights with the full blessing of the Canadian government. As if to underline the significance of the move, the test site is barely 2,000ft from the US border, which was clearly visible from where the Guardian stood on a recent visit.The Guardian was invited to visit Amazon\u2019s previously undisclosed Canadian drone test site, where it has been conducting outdoor flights for the past few months. For the duration of the visit, three plain-clothed security guards kept watch from the surrounding hills.Amazon\u2019s drone visionaries are taking the permissive culture on the Canadian side of the border and using it to fine-tune the essential features of what they hope will become a successful delivery-by-drone system. The Guardian witnessed tests of a hybrid drone that can take off and land vertically as well as fly horizontally.The company\u2019s decision to set up camp in Canada, after frustration in its attempts to persuade US regulators to allow it to launch its drones in Washington state, takes Amazon\u2019s quarrel with the federal government to a new level. Last week a senior Amazon executive appeared before a US Senate subcommittee and warned that there would be consequences if federal regulators continued to act as a drag on its ambitions to launch a drone delivery service called Prime Air.What Paul Misener, the company\u2019s vice-president for global public policy, did not tell senators was that at the very moment he appeared before them, Amazon drones were buzzing in the skies just north of the border.The company wants to offer its customers the ability to have packages dropped on their doorstep by flying robots within 30 minutes of ordering goods online. With innovation in the drone sector reaching lightning speeds, Amazon said it was not prepared to curtail its ambitions because of what Misener said was a lack of \u201cimpetus\u201d on the US side of the border.\u201cWe think that this new technology will provide huge benefits for our customers, who we think will love it, and for society more broadly,\u201d he told the Guardian a day after the subcommittee hearing. \u201cWhy would we wait?\u201dGur Kimchi, the architect and head of Prime Air, said the hope had always been to develop the drone service in the US, close to the company\u2019s Seattle headquarters. \u201cBut we\u2019re limited there to flying indoors and have been now for a very long time. So we do what\u2019s necessary \u2013 we go to places where we can test outside, in this case Canada.\u201dDrone technology is seen by many tech companies and aeronautics experts as the next frontier for innovation, with billions of dollars potentially in the balance. Traditionally, the US has been at the vanguard of both tech and aviation innovation, but the approach of the the Federal Aviation Authority (FAA), a US regulatory body, has been markedly tentative so far compared with that of regulators in Canada and Europe.Brendan Schulman, a New York-based specialist in drone law, said the Guardian\u2019s disclosure of Amazon\u2019s Canadian airstrip-in-exile should be a \u201cserious wake-up call to politicians and regulators\u201d. \u201cAmerica has led the world in aviation development,\u201d he said, \u201cbut for the first time in history we are at risk of losing out. To see one of our most innovative companies forced over the border is a stark example of the danger.\u201dUntil it opened its Canadian base, Amazon had been limited to indoor testing in its Seattle laboratory, backed up with research outposts in the UK \u2013 in Cambridge \u2013 and Israel. Requests by the company to begin outdoor testing on company land in Washington state have so far largely been rebuffed by the FAA.The federal agency recently published its guidelines for commercial use of small drones. The new rules will take at least two years to come into effect, a delay which Amazon finds unacceptable.Last July, the company applied for a so-called 333 exemption that would allow it to carry out outdoor experimentation immediately. Eight months later, the FAA has not responded.The federal body did agree last week, amid considerable fanfare, to award the company a so-called \u201cexperimental airworthiness certificate\u201d that can be used to test a specific model of drone. But it took so long for the certificate to come through that by the time it was granted, Amazon said it was obsolete.\u201cThe pace of innovation is so great at this point that our designs are changing very quickly,\u201d Misener told the Guardian.The contrast between the relative rigidity of the FAA\u2019s approach to drone testing and the relatively relaxed regulatory regime in Canada is startling. Under the Canadian system, Amazon has been granted a virtual carte blanche regarding its entire fleet of drones within its designated airspace, having gone through a licensing process that took just three weeks.By comparison, it takes the FAA many months to grant approval. Sources familiar with the process told the Guardian the US regulator insists on an initial 23-page application, a review of 75 pages of further documentation and a four-hour presentation at FAA headquarters followed by a three-hour site visit, together with ongoing reporting and record-keeping obligations.Early experiments in Canada have focused on a range of individual drone capabilities: sensors that can detect and avoid obstacles in a drone\u2019s path; link-loss procedures that control the aircraft should its connection with base be broken; stability in wind and turbulence; and environmental impact. Once each of these facets has been perfected, a new Amazon prototype drone will be assembled that Kimchi predicted would be utterly safe and wholly unlike anything seen before.\u201cWe are going to end up with unique shapes, unique vehicles. The most important part is to develop strong confidence that our system is safe and that we can demonstrate that to customers,\u201d he said.\u201cYou can build a very different world. It can be faster, and safer, and more economic and more environmentally friendly \u2013 all of those things, all at the same time.\u201dThe FAA argues that the US has a uniquely difficult job in safeguarding the nation\u2019s skies. It emphasises that it is responsible for the largest, most complex airspace in the world, which, unlike other countries\u2019, is used by a large general aviation fleet.\u201cDifferent laws and regulatory structures in other nations may allow them to act more quickly to approve certain UAS [drone] operations,\u201d an FAA spokesman told the Guardian. \u201cEverything we do is safety-oriented, and we base our approvals for unmanned aircraft operations on an assessment of the risks to other aircraft and to people and property on the ground. We have been working diligently with Amazon to get the information we need.\u201dMisener said he respected the FAA\u2019s desire to keep America\u2019s airspace as safe as possible. \u201cThat\u2019s our top priority in Amazon Prime Air too,\u201d he said.But he questioned the FAA\u2019s portrayal of America\u2019s unique position: \u201cThe US does have a complex airspace, but it\u2019s no more complex than in Europe, where regulators do allow testing, and it\u2019s certainly not complex beneath 500ft or in rural areas of Washington state where we had planned to operate.\u201dThe numbers speak for themselves. The FAA has received more than 750 requests for outdoor drone testing licenses from American businesses, Amazon\u2019s among them, but so far has granted just 48. Canada\u2019s equivalent civil aviation authority, Transport Canada, released 1,672 commercial drone certificates last year alone.Amazon will will result in other large American companies like Google and Facebook looking at our market as wellDiana Cooper, head of drones and robotics at the Canadian law firm Labarge Weinstein, said that in recent months several US companies had contacted her to inquire about opportunities in her country \u2013 a phenomenon that she believes will be boosted further by Amazon\u2019s decision to join the fold. \u201cAmazon will definitely be a trendsetter,\u201d she said, \u201cand will result in a lot of other large American companies like Google and Facebook looking at our market as well.\u201dAnother battle is already on the horizon. The FAA has stated bluntly it does not believe that drones can be flown safely under their own autonomous control, and is insisting that humans must keep them within eyesight at all times. That is a deal-breaker for Amazon Prime Air, which could only function if drones were able to fly well beyond visual line of sight.Here too, the contrast between the uncertainty of the US regulators and the can-do attitude of their Canadian and European equivalents is striking. A huge area of Alberta covering 700 square nautical miles of restricted airspace has already been set aside to allow for drones to be tested beyond visual line of sight. In Europe a similar facility is being opened in Wales.Misener believes that with such opportunities exploding beyond US borders, it is only a matter of time before the FAA is forced to accept that drones are here to stay.\u201cThis technology is going to work,\u201d he said. \u201cIt\u2019s coming.\u201d", "tags": ["Drones (non-military)", "Amazon.com", "Technology", "E-commerce", "Internet", "Obama administration", "US news", "Canada", "Americas", "World news", "Air transport"], "title": "Amazon tests delivery drones at secret Canada site after US frustration"},{"date": "2015-01-14T01:15:19Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A Briton who was among three climbers who died in a mountain fall in a remote area of western Canada has been named as Neil Charles Mackenzie, who was originally from Scotland.His body, and that of a Canadian and German climber, were found in a crevasse below Joffre Peak in British Columbia on Monday after falling in the Pemberton area, which is north of the resort town of Whistler and popular with outdoor sports enthusiasts.The Coroners Service in British Columbia identified them as Elena Cernicka, 35, of North Vancouver, Stephanie Grothe, a 30-year-old German, and Mackenzie, who was 31.All three were part of a group who travelled to Joffre Lakes Provincial Park on Saturday. While the rest of the group engaged in other activities, they went ice-climbing on the following day but sparked a search when they did not return as planned.The body of one was located while search and rescue service staff found the other two on Monday after they had apparently fallen more than 600 metres down a narrow gulley. All three were pronounced dead at the scene.Authorities believed that the climbers initially reached the area on skis and had planned to climb higher, using crampons.Grothe was a PhD candidate at the University of British Columbia while Mackenzie had recently arrived from Scotland and was living in Vancouver, according to local media.", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "World news", "UK news"], "title": "Briton who died in Canada mountain fall named as Neil Charles Mackenzie"},{"date": "2015-01-06T19:50:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The promoters of Bill Cosby\u2019s three performances in Canada this week have announced that they are going ahead with the shows but have prefaced the decision by giving advice to women who have experienced sexual violence on how to seek help.Innovation Arts & Entertainment, based in Chicago, says in its statement that it \u201ccondemns physical violence in any form. We recommend that anyone who has experienced the pain of sexual violence, reach out to helpful organizations in Western Ontario.\u201dIt then lists three specific organisations that provide advice for sexual assault victims. \u201cThe fact that an artist is performing on stages is no endorsement, in any way, of behavior of that artist,\u201d the promoters say.Cosby, who has been the subject of a storm of allegations that he sexually assaulted numerous women, largely in the 1970s and 80s, is set to make three appearance in Ontario this week. He will appear on Wednesday at the Centre in the Square in Kitchener, followed by the Budweiser Gardens in London on Thursday and the Hamilton Place Theatre in Hamilton on Friday.All three venues confirmed to the Guardian that the shows would go on.Despite the promoters\u2019 obvious unease at the situation, they said they had no choice but to go ahead. Should they attempt to cancel, the statement said, IAE and the venue would be subject to legal action and with it \u201cthe prospect of significant financial damage that, as a small business, would be insurmountable\u201d.More than 20 women have now come forward to allege that Cosby subjected them to sexual assaults and that he in some cases drugged them. He is also facing a defamation lawsuit that has been joined by three women in which they claim they were branded as liars by Cosby after they spoke out.All the allegations have been consistently denied by the comic\u2019s representatives, and he has never been charged with any offence. He settled a lawsuit with Andrea Constand, who alleged he drugged and molested her, in 2006.In the wake of the allegations Cosby has had numerous shows axed by venues across the US, including dates scheduled for this year. A Netflix special broadcast to mark his 77th birthday and a planned NBC sitcom were also scrapped.IAE\u2019s insistence that they had no option but to press ahead with this week\u2019s performances did not satisfy women\u2019s rights advocates who plan to demonstrate outside all three Ontario venues. Megan Walker, executive director of the London Abused Women\u2019s Centre, pointed out that two of the venues \u2013 those in London and Hamilton \u2013 are operated by Global Spectrum whose parent company is the multibillion-dollar media giant Comcast Corporation.\u201cOnce again the almighty box office is taking priority over the safety of women,\u201d she said.Walker also objected to suggestions in the IAE statement that the Ontario venues could face security issues as a result of the protests. The promoters said that they had co-opted \u201cprivate security companies to ensure the safety of our valued audience\u201d.Walker said the implication was that the planned protests were problematic. \u201cThe very reason we are protesting is that we are opposed to violence \u2013 in this case men\u2019s violence towards women.\u201d", "tags": ["Bill Cosby", "Canada", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Bill Cosby performances in Canada to go on despite promoters' unease"},{"date": "2015-06-25T19:00:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "O Canada! Land of the beaver, the goose, bear and moose, the maple, caribou, mountie and loon. Such a landscape of vast space \u2013 the second biggest of any nation in the world, behind Russia, but larger than China and the US, and with the world\u2019s biggest volume of fresh water in a whopping, lapping 31,700 lakes. As Canadian singer-songwriter Paul Anka (who, incidentally wrote for Frank Sinatra, Tom Jones and Michael Jackson) put it, it\u2019s a country \u201cthat has a gentler, slower pace - it lends perspective\u201d. This, and all those lakes, is something to musically reflect on in time for this coming Canada Day on 1 July.I visited the land of the maple leaf when I was 12 to see an auntie, uncle and cousins. I was gobsmacked at the scale of things \u2013 we took a very slow train from Edmonton in Alberta, going west, and visited Banff National Park, spotted a moose, crossed part of the Athabaska glacier on a snowcat then drank, trickling from its gentle melt, some of the purest water in the world. For two days the train, with a curved glass viewing dome, trundled across vast plains, ending up in Vancouver, where, in Stanley Park, I was amazed to spot and throw nuts to squirrels the size of cats, and all of them entirely black.Think of Canadian music and you\u2019ll probably recall songs by Neil Young, Joni Mitchell, Leonard Cohen, Alanis Morissette, Arcade Fire, KD Lang or Shania Twain, or if you\u2019re not so lucky, Celine Dion. Or if you just read the tabloids, Justin Bieber. But simply naming songs by Canadians won\u2019t cut the mustard, or indeed the Montreal smoked meat, nor will it put out the poutine, or sweeten the selection process like maple syrup might. Major Canadian artists will only be worth mentioning if their songs are about Canada, its cities, people, or some aspect of Canadian life. But this topic does include other lesser known artists who may not mention Canada, but in some way represent the culture of the country. Canada has a strong history of jazz from Oscar Peterson to Diana Krall. Much of the music draws on the country\u2019s bilingual heritage. You might choose to draw, for example, from the rich influences of the lively Quebec scene, perhaps from satirical singer Madame Bolduc, other French inspirations from Brittany and Picardy, the rock and metal of the Stills or Godspeed You! Black Emperor, the hip-hip of Loco Locasse and more, the Inuit influence, the Celtic folk influx from Scotland and Ireland, not to mention the Aboriginal sounds and stories from the Inuit, M\u00e9tis, Iroquois, Mi\u2019kmaq, Huron, and Haida. Now have a taste of some pretty astonishing Inuit throat singing.What does Canada mean to you? Like many countries it has a harsh history of invasion and colonialism. But it has always struck me as a down-to-earth and welcoming place, laid back in its rich multiculturalism, and proud to contrast, in some ways, to its brasher, flashier neighbour to the south. But while a majority of Canada\u2019s population live in the southern areas, within reach of the borders of the US for commercial reasons, perhaps your song choices may include something that tells how it differs from America, and how this has shaped its identity. Canada, for example, has a national healthcare service, not unlike Britain\u2019s NHS. As the writer Douglas Coupland put it: \u201cIn Canada, we\u2019re happy to provide a safe haven for next-door neighbours in the middle of a marital dispute. And if anyone trips while crossing the border, we\u2019re happy to set their broken bones for free.\u201dAlternatively your song suggestions might touch on wonders of nature as well as the effects of climate change causing extreme temperatures, including the last year\u2019s extraordinary freeze of Ontario\u2019s Niagara falls. Alternatively your songs might hit on bruising ice hockey falls, a sport that\u2019s a national obsession. Canada is also a big exporter of comedians and comic actors from Mike Myers to John Candy, Rick Moranis to Leslie Neilsen, so your songs might be heavily humorous. So where might your choices come from? Can we (the) Guess Who? There\u2019s a huge list of multifarious artists, from Barenaked Ladies to Bedouin Soundclash, C\u0153ur de Pirate to Crystal Castles, Fucked Up to Hooded Fang, Ladyhawk to Men Without Hats Nickelback to the Slugs, or Trooper to Yukon Blonde.So then, this week\u2019s topic may be as much about discovery as prior knowledge, so get beavering, dig deep and come up with some Canadian treasure, whether that be inspired by the busy cities, the quiet towns or the huge, beautiful countryside. There can be no finer Canadian connoisseur than this week\u2019s music guru - returning lord of the RR vaults, Marconius \u2013 who will as ever, will judge your nominations with faultless grace, thoroughness, and efficiency. Put in your nominations in comments below or optionally in the Spotify list by last orders (11pm BST) on Monday 29 June for the results list published next Thursday 2 July.To increase the likelihood of your nomination being considered, please:\u2022 Tell us why it\u2019s a worthy contender.\u2022 Quote lyrics if helpful, but for copyright reasons no more than a third of a song\u2019s words.\u2022 Provide a link to the song. We prefer Muzu or YouTube, but Spotify or SoundCloud are fine.\u2022 Listen to others people\u2019s suggestions and add yours to a collaborative Spotify playlist.\u2022 If you have a good theme for Readers recommend, or if you\u2019d like to volunteer to compile a playlist, please email peter.kimpton@theguardian.com\u2022 There\u2019s a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are \u201czedded\u201d, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of \u201czedded\u201d, \u201cdonds\u201d and other strange words used by RR regulars.\u2022 Many RR regulars also congregate at the \u2018Spill blog.", "tags": ["Music", "Pop and rock", "Canada", "Americas", "Culture", "World music", "Jazz", "Animals", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Neil Young", "Joni Mitchell", "Leonard Cohen", "Alanis Morissette", "Justin Bieber", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Science", "Indie", "Hip-hop", "Books", "France", "Dance music", "Comedy", "Film", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Arcade Fire"], "title": "Readers recommend: songs from or about Canada"},{"date": "2015-06-25T19:00:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "O Canada! Land of the beaver, the goose, bear and moose, the maple, caribou, mountie and loon. Such a landscape of vast space \u2013 the second biggest of any nation in the world, behind Russia, but larger than China and the US, and with the world\u2019s biggest volume of fresh water in a whopping, lapping 31,700 lakes. As Canadian singer-songwriter Paul Anka (who, incidentally wrote for Frank Sinatra, Tom Jones and Michael Jackson) put it, it\u2019s a country \u201cthat has a gentler, slower pace - it lends perspective\u201d. This, and all those lakes, is something to musically reflect on in time for this coming Canada Day on 1 July.I visited the land of the maple leaf when I was 12 to see an auntie, uncle and cousins. I was gobsmacked at the scale of things \u2013 we took a very slow train from Edmonton in Alberta, going west, and visited Banff National Park, spotted a moose, crossed part of the Athabaska glacier on a snowcat then drank, trickling from its gentle melt, some of the purest water in the world. For two days the train, with a curved glass viewing dome, trundled across vast plains, ending up in Vancouver, where, in Stanley Park, I was amazed to spot and throw nuts to squirrels the size of cats, and all of them entirely black.Think of Canadian music and you\u2019ll probably recall songs by Neil Young, Joni Mitchell, Leonard Cohen, Alanis Morissette, Arcade Fire, KD Lang or Shania Twain, or if you\u2019re not so lucky, Celine Dion. Or if you just read the tabloids, Justin Bieber. But simply naming songs by Canadians won\u2019t cut the mustard, or indeed the Montreal smoked meat, nor will it put out the poutine, or sweeten the selection process like maple syrup might. Major Canadian artists will only be worth mentioning if their songs are about Canada, its cities, people, or some aspect of Canadian life. But this topic does include other lesser known artists who may not mention Canada, but in some way represent the culture of the country. Canada has a strong history of jazz from Oscar Peterson to Diana Krall. Much of the music draws on the country\u2019s bilingual heritage. You might choose to draw, for example, from the rich influences of the lively Quebec scene, perhaps from satirical singer Madame Bolduc, other French inspirations from Brittany and Picardy, the rock and metal of the Stills or Godspeed You! Black Emperor, the hip-hip of Loco Locasse and more, the Inuit influence, the Celtic folk influx from Scotland and Ireland, not to mention the Aboriginal sounds and stories from the Inuit, M\u00e9tis, Iroquois, Mi\u2019kmaq, Huron, and Haida. Now have a taste of some pretty astonishing Inuit throat singing.What does Canada mean to you? Like many countries it has a harsh history of invasion and colonialism. But it has always struck me as a down-to-earth and welcoming place, laid back in its rich multiculturalism, and proud to contrast, in some ways, to its brasher, flashier neighbour to the south. But while a majority of Canada\u2019s population live in the southern areas, within reach of the borders of the US for commercial reasons, perhaps your song choices may include something that tells how it differs from America, and how this has shaped its identity. Canada, for example, has a national healthcare service, not unlike Britain\u2019s NHS. As the writer Douglas Coupland put it: \u201cIn Canada, we\u2019re happy to provide a safe haven for next-door neighbours in the middle of a marital dispute. And if anyone trips while crossing the border, we\u2019re happy to set their broken bones for free.\u201dAlternatively your song suggestions might touch on wonders of nature as well as the effects of climate change causing extreme temperatures, including the last year\u2019s extraordinary freeze of Ontario\u2019s Niagara falls. Alternatively your songs might hit on bruising ice hockey falls, a sport that\u2019s a national obsession. Canada is also a big exporter of comedians and comic actors from Mike Myers to John Candy, Rick Moranis to Leslie Neilsen, so your songs might be heavily humorous. So where might your choices come from? Can we (the) Guess Who? There\u2019s a huge list of multifarious artists, from Barenaked Ladies to Bedouin Soundclash, C\u0153ur de Pirate to Crystal Castles, Fucked Up to Hooded Fang, Ladyhawk to Men Without Hats Nickelback to the Slugs, or Trooper to Yukon Blonde.So then, this week\u2019s topic may be as much about discovery as prior knowledge, so get beavering, dig deep and come up with some Canadian treasure, whether that be inspired by the busy cities, the quiet towns or the huge, beautiful countryside. There can be no finer Canadian connoisseur than this week\u2019s music guru - returning lord of the RR vaults, Marconius \u2013 who will as ever, will judge your nominations with faultless grace, thoroughness, and efficiency. Put in your nominations in comments below or optionally in the Spotify list by last orders (11pm BST) on Monday 29 June for the results list published next Thursday 2 July.To increase the likelihood of your nomination being considered, please:\u2022 Tell us why it\u2019s a worthy contender.\u2022 Quote lyrics if helpful, but for copyright reasons no more than a third of a song\u2019s words.\u2022 Provide a link to the song. We prefer Muzu or YouTube, but Spotify or SoundCloud are fine.\u2022 Listen to others people\u2019s suggestions and add yours to a collaborative Spotify playlist.\u2022 If you have a good theme for Readers recommend, or if you\u2019d like to volunteer to compile a playlist, please email peter.kimpton@theguardian.com\u2022 There\u2019s a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are \u201czedded\u201d, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of \u201czedded\u201d, \u201cdonds\u201d and other strange words used by RR regulars.\u2022 Many RR regulars also congregate at the \u2018Spill blog.", "tags": ["Music", "Pop and rock", "Canada", "Americas", "Culture", "World music", "Jazz", "Animals", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Neil Young", "Joni Mitchell", "Leonard Cohen", "Alanis Morissette", "Justin Bieber", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Science", "Indie", "Hip-hop", "Books", "France", "Dance music", "Comedy", "Film", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Arcade Fire"], "title": "Readers recommend: songs from or about Canada"},{"date": "2015-06-26T10:30:05Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A plan to erect a 10-storey statue in a national park on one of Canada\u2019s most scenic shorelines has prompted outrage and sparked a growing political row as the country heads towards a general election this fall.The statue of Mother Canada \u2013 a cloaked female figure with her arms outstretched towards the Atlantic Ocean \u2013 is intended to honour the country\u2019s soldiers who died overseas.But growing anger over the plan has made it a new focus of opposition to the increasingly unpopular government of Conservative prime minister Stephen Harper.The proposed monument is an awkwardly remodelled, vastly upscaled version of an earlier statue, known as Canada Bereft, which adorns the memorial to the country\u2019s first world war dead near Vimy, France. The design has been widely lambasted both for its design and its proposed location in Cape Breton Highlands national park. In an editorial this week, the Globe and Mail newspaper described it as \u201coffensively tasteless\u201d and a \u201chubristically arrogant act of arrogant unoriginality\u201d.\u201cThe bigger-is-better approach to art is best left to Stalinist tyrants, theme park entrepreneurs and insecure municipalities hoping to waylay bored drive-by tourists,\u201d the paper wrote. The project is the brainchild of Toronto businessman Tony Trigiani, who was inspired after a chance visit to a Canadian war cemetery in Italy and set up the Never Forgotten National Memorial Foundation to realise the plan. The initiative gained early and enthusiastic support from the Harper government, which has donated the necessary public land and $100,000 from its parks budget to help erect the colossus on a rocky spit along the Cabot Trail, eastern Canada\u2019s most popular scenic drive. The foundation hopes to raise $25m to complete the project, in part by selling corporate sponsorships that will be prominently acknowledged on the site. Growing criticism in the nation\u2019s media has helped swing opinion against the grandiose scheme, but opponents fear the fate of rocky, windswept Green Cove is already sealed. \u201cWe\u2019re pleased with the momentum,\u201d said Sean Howard, spokesman for Friends of Green Cove. \u201cWhat we don\u2019t know is how much time we have. Our worst fear is that they\u2019re going to send the bulldozers in before the federal election this fall.\u201d \u201cBut until Green Cove becomes concrete cove,\u201d Howard added, \u201cwe\u2019re going to keep fighting.\u201d Trigiani\u2019s Never Forgotten National Memorial Foundation and the government hope to have the colossus up by 2017, the sesquicentennial of Canadian Confederation and also the centennial of the Battle of Vimy Ridge. In addition to the statue, the monument will include such amenities as the Commemorative Ring of True Patriot Love, the True North Commemorative Square and the With Glowing Hearts National Sanctuary \u2013 all named after the English lyrics of O Canada, the national anthem.Howard accuses the monument of a \u201ckitsch glorification of war\u201d, but local opponents are also angered by the speed with which the project is to be executed. \u201cYou have to have a very strange process to get through such a strange product,\u201d Howard said. \u201cIt\u2019s hair-raising how fast they want to do it.\u201d\u201cA significant majority of those who are engaged with the issue believe that the statue either shouldn\u2019t be built anywhere or for sure shouldn\u2019t be plopped down in a beautiful national park,\u201d Howard said. A spokesman for Parks Canada declined to answer questions about the monument, describing it as \u201cprivately funded\u201d and referring inquiries to the Never Forgotten Foundation. Trigiani, president of the foundation, declined a request to be interviewed. With criticism of the monument going national, the most articulate opponent remains Cape Breton resident Valerie Bird, 93, who served as an auxilliary with the royal air force in the Middle East during the second world war. \u201cIt is vulgar and ostentatious,\u201d she said. \u201cIt certainly doesn\u2019t belong in a national park, and I don\u2019t think its going to do a darn thing for veterans.\u201d \u201cI think the idea of this horrible thing offends veterans,\u201d she added. \u201cI find it difficult to find words. This is a monstrosity.\u201d", "tags": ["Canada", "National parks", "Americas", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Environment"], "title": "'Offensively tasteless' Mother Canada statue plan sparks outrage against PM"},{"date": "2015-06-25T19:00:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "O Canada! Land of the beaver, the goose, bear and moose, the maple, caribou, mountie and loon. Such a landscape of vast space \u2013 the second biggest of any nation in the world, behind Russia, but larger than China and the US, and with the world\u2019s biggest volume of fresh water in a whopping, lapping 31,700 lakes. As Canadian singer-songwriter Paul Anka (who, incidentally wrote for Frank Sinatra, Tom Jones and Michael Jackson) put it, it\u2019s a country \u201cthat has a gentler, slower pace - it lends perspective\u201d. This, and all those lakes, is something to musically reflect on in time for this coming Canada Day on 1 July.I visited the land of the maple leaf when I was 12 to see an auntie, uncle and cousins. I was gobsmacked at the scale of things \u2013 we took a very slow train from Edmonton in Alberta, going west, and visited Banff National Park, spotted a moose, crossed part of the Athabaska glacier on a snowcat then drank, trickling from its gentle melt, some of the purest water in the world. For two days the train, with a curved glass viewing dome, trundled across vast plains, ending up in Vancouver, where, in Stanley Park, I was amazed to spot and throw nuts to squirrels the size of cats, and all of them entirely black.Think of Canadian music and you\u2019ll probably recall songs by Neil Young, Joni Mitchell, Leonard Cohen, Alanis Morissette, Arcade Fire, KD Lang or Shania Twain, or if you\u2019re not so lucky, Celine Dion. Or if you just read the tabloids, Justin Bieber. But simply naming songs by Canadians won\u2019t cut the mustard, or indeed the Montreal smoked meat, nor will it put out the poutine, or sweeten the selection process like maple syrup might. Major Canadian artists will only be worth mentioning if their songs are about Canada, its cities, people, or some aspect of Canadian life. But this topic does include other lesser known artists who may not mention Canada, but in some way represent the culture of the country. Canada has a strong history of jazz from Oscar Peterson to Diana Krall. Much of the music draws on the country\u2019s bilingual heritage. You might choose to draw, for example, from the rich influences of the lively Quebec scene, perhaps from satirical singer Madame Bolduc, other French inspirations from Brittany and Picardy, the rock and metal of the Stills or Godspeed You! Black Emperor, the hip-hip of Loco Locasse and more, the Inuit influence, the Celtic folk influx from Scotland and Ireland, not to mention the Aboriginal sounds and stories from the Inuit, M\u00e9tis, Iroquois, Mi\u2019kmaq, Huron, and Haida. Now have a taste of some pretty astonishing Inuit throat singing.What does Canada mean to you? Like many countries it has a harsh history of invasion and colonialism. But it has always struck me as a down-to-earth and welcoming place, laid back in its rich multiculturalism, and proud to contrast, in some ways, to its brasher, flashier neighbour to the south. But while a majority of Canada\u2019s population live in the southern areas, within reach of the borders of the US for commercial reasons, perhaps your song choices may include something that tells how it differs from America, and how this has shaped its identity. Canada, for example, has a national healthcare service, not unlike Britain\u2019s NHS. As the writer Douglas Coupland put it: \u201cIn Canada, we\u2019re happy to provide a safe haven for next-door neighbours in the middle of a marital dispute. And if anyone trips while crossing the border, we\u2019re happy to set their broken bones for free.\u201dAlternatively your song suggestions might touch on wonders of nature as well as the effects of climate change causing extreme temperatures, including the last year\u2019s extraordinary freeze of Ontario\u2019s Niagara falls. Alternatively your songs might hit on bruising ice hockey falls, a sport that\u2019s a national obsession. Canada is also a big exporter of comedians and comic actors from Mike Myers to John Candy, Rick Moranis to Leslie Neilsen, so your songs might be heavily humorous. So where might your choices come from? Can we (the) Guess Who? There\u2019s a huge list of multifarious artists, from Barenaked Ladies to Bedouin Soundclash, C\u0153ur de Pirate to Crystal Castles, Fucked Up to Hooded Fang, Ladyhawk to Men Without Hats Nickelback to the Slugs, or Trooper to Yukon Blonde.So then, this week\u2019s topic may be as much about discovery as prior knowledge, so get beavering, dig deep and come up with some Canadian treasure, whether that be inspired by the busy cities, the quiet towns or the huge, beautiful countryside. There can be no finer Canadian connoisseur than this week\u2019s music guru - returning lord of the RR vaults, Marconius \u2013 who will as ever, will judge your nominations with faultless grace, thoroughness, and efficiency. Put in your nominations in comments below or optionally in the Spotify list by last orders (11pm BST) on Monday 29 June for the results list published next Thursday 2 July.To increase the likelihood of your nomination being considered, please:\u2022 Tell us why it\u2019s a worthy contender.\u2022 Quote lyrics if helpful, but for copyright reasons no more than a third of a song\u2019s words.\u2022 Provide a link to the song. We prefer Muzu or YouTube, but Spotify or SoundCloud are fine.\u2022 Listen to others people\u2019s suggestions and add yours to a collaborative Spotify playlist.\u2022 If you have a good theme for Readers recommend, or if you\u2019d like to volunteer to compile a playlist, please email peter.kimpton@theguardian.com\u2022 There\u2019s a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are \u201czedded\u201d, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of \u201czedded\u201d, \u201cdonds\u201d and other strange words used by RR regulars.\u2022 Many RR regulars also congregate at the \u2018Spill blog.", "tags": ["Music", "Pop and rock", "Canada", "Americas", "Culture", "World music", "Jazz", "Animals", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Neil Young", "Joni Mitchell", "Leonard Cohen", "Alanis Morissette", "Justin Bieber", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Science", "Indie", "Hip-hop", "Books", "France", "Dance music", "Comedy", "Film", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Arcade Fire"], "title": "Readers recommend: songs from or about Canada"},{"date": "2015-06-26T10:30:05Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A plan to erect a 10-storey statue in a national park on one of Canada\u2019s most scenic shorelines has prompted outrage and sparked a growing political row as the country heads towards a general election this fall.The statue of Mother Canada \u2013 a cloaked female figure with her arms outstretched towards the Atlantic Ocean \u2013 is intended to honour the country\u2019s soldiers who died overseas.But growing anger over the plan has made it a new focus of opposition to the increasingly unpopular government of Conservative prime minister Stephen Harper.The proposed monument is an awkwardly remodelled, vastly upscaled version of an earlier statue, known as Canada Bereft, which adorns the memorial to the country\u2019s first world war dead near Vimy, France. The design has been widely lambasted both for its design and its proposed location in Cape Breton Highlands national park. In an editorial this week, the Globe and Mail newspaper described it as \u201coffensively tasteless\u201d and a \u201chubristically arrogant act of arrogant unoriginality\u201d.\u201cThe bigger-is-better approach to art is best left to Stalinist tyrants, theme park entrepreneurs and insecure municipalities hoping to waylay bored drive-by tourists,\u201d the paper wrote. The project is the brainchild of Toronto businessman Tony Trigiani, who was inspired after a chance visit to a Canadian war cemetery in Italy and set up the Never Forgotten National Memorial Foundation to realise the plan. The initiative gained early and enthusiastic support from the Harper government, which has donated the necessary public land and $100,000 from its parks budget to help erect the colossus on a rocky spit along the Cabot Trail, eastern Canada\u2019s most popular scenic drive. The foundation hopes to raise $25m to complete the project, in part by selling corporate sponsorships that will be prominently acknowledged on the site. Growing criticism in the nation\u2019s media has helped swing opinion against the grandiose scheme, but opponents fear the fate of rocky, windswept Green Cove is already sealed. \u201cWe\u2019re pleased with the momentum,\u201d said Sean Howard, spokesman for Friends of Green Cove. \u201cWhat we don\u2019t know is how much time we have. Our worst fear is that they\u2019re going to send the bulldozers in before the federal election this fall.\u201d \u201cBut until Green Cove becomes concrete cove,\u201d Howard added, \u201cwe\u2019re going to keep fighting.\u201d Trigiani\u2019s Never Forgotten National Memorial Foundation and the government hope to have the colossus up by 2017, the sesquicentennial of Canadian Confederation and also the centennial of the Battle of Vimy Ridge. In addition to the statue, the monument will include such amenities as the Commemorative Ring of True Patriot Love, the True North Commemorative Square and the With Glowing Hearts National Sanctuary \u2013 all named after the English lyrics of O Canada, the national anthem.Howard accuses the monument of a \u201ckitsch glorification of war\u201d, but local opponents are also angered by the speed with which the project is to be executed. \u201cYou have to have a very strange process to get through such a strange product,\u201d Howard said. \u201cIt\u2019s hair-raising how fast they want to do it.\u201d\u201cA significant majority of those who are engaged with the issue believe that the statue either shouldn\u2019t be built anywhere or for sure shouldn\u2019t be plopped down in a beautiful national park,\u201d Howard said. A spokesman for Parks Canada declined to answer questions about the monument, describing it as \u201cprivately funded\u201d and referring inquiries to the Never Forgotten Foundation. Trigiani, president of the foundation, declined a request to be interviewed. With criticism of the monument going national, the most articulate opponent remains Cape Breton resident Valerie Bird, 93, who served as an auxilliary with the royal air force in the Middle East during the second world war. \u201cIt is vulgar and ostentatious,\u201d she said. \u201cIt certainly doesn\u2019t belong in a national park, and I don\u2019t think its going to do a darn thing for veterans.\u201d \u201cI think the idea of this horrible thing offends veterans,\u201d she added. \u201cI find it difficult to find words. This is a monstrosity.\u201d", "tags": ["Canada", "National parks", "Americas", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Environment"], "title": "'Offensively tasteless' Mother Canada statue plan sparks outrage against PM"},{"date": "2015-06-06T12:00:07Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Sue Caribou contracts pneumonia once a year, like clockwork. The recurring illness stems from her childhood years at one of Canada\u2019s horrific residential schools. \u201cI was thrown into a cold shower every night, sometimes after being raped\u201d, the frail 50-year-old indigenous mother of six said, matter-of-factly.Caribou was snatched from her parents\u2019 house in 1972 by the state-funded, church-run Indian Residential School system that brutally attempted to assimilate native children for over a century. She was only seven years old. \u201cWe had to stand like soldiers while singing the national anthem, otherwise, we would be beaten up\u201d, she recalled.Caribou said Catholic missionaries physically and sexually abused her until 1979 at the Guy Hill institution, in the east of the province of Manitoba. She said she was called a \u201cdog\u201d, was forced to eat rotten vegetables and was forbidden to speak her native language of Cree.\u201cI vowed to myself that if I ever get out alive of that horrible place, I would speak up and fight for our rights\u201d, she said.Her voice and that of 150,000 other residential school pupils was finally heard across the nation this week as Canada faced one of the darkest chapters in its history. The head of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC), set up to examine the school system\u2019s legacy, did not mince his words when he unveiled his landmark report. \u201cCanada clearly participated in a period of cultural genocide\u201d, declared Justice Murray Sinclair to cries and applause of survivors in Ottawa. Although prime minister Stephen Harper apologised for the school system in 2008 (as did the Roman Catholic Church in 2009), his government has always denied that it was a form of genocide.Many survivors who gathered in Ottawa felt empowered for the first time in their life after hearing findings of the six-year-long commission. \u201cIt feels like our story is validated at last and is out there for the world to see\u201d, said a tearful 58 year-old Cindy Tom-Lindley, who is executive director of the Indian Residential School Survivor Society in British Columbia. \u201cWe were too scared as children to speak out. So to give our testimonies to the commission was liberating and emotional.\u201dAs many as 6,000 children died in residential institutions, which ran from 1876 to 1996. The accurate figure could be much higher however, since the government stopped recording aboriginal students\u2019 deaths in 1920 in light of the alarming statistics. Caribou believes that dozens of pupils perished at the institution where she was detained. \u201cRemains were found all over the fields. But numbers do not reflect the reality. Many of my friends committed suicide after their release\u201d, said Caribou, who said she was frustrated that an inquiry did not take place twenty years ago, after the last of the residential schools closedJustice Sinclair, who was the second aboriginal judge to be appointed in Canada in 1988, made clear the connection between residential schools and the social ills plaguing the First Nations today, namely unemployment, domestic violence, the over-representation of aboriginal children in foster care and the high homicide rate of indigenous women.\u201cI didn\u2019t learn anything at the Guy Hill school except the \u201cOur Father\u201d prayer and the national anthem\u201d, said Caribou. \u201cMy children taught me how to read and write. I\u2019ve been a housekeeper all my life because of my lack of education and poor health\u201d.The hopeful mood among survivors in the capital was met with silence by the government, despite urgent calls to act on the commission\u2019s 94 recommendations. Prime Minister Harper did not utter a word while he attended the emotional closing ceremony of the TRC on Thursday, nor did he announce any measures that would further reconciliation for survivors and close the economic gap between First Nations and non-aboriginal Canadians.Since coming into power in 2006, the Conservative government has repeatedly rejected some long-standing demands by First Nations, such as holding a national enquiry on the missing and murdered aboriginal women, a measure also recommended by Justice Sinclair.\u201cIf Stephen Harper\u2019s apology for residential schools is not followed by actions, it will prove to be meaningless\u201d, warned Perry Bellegarde, Chief of the Assembly of First Nations. Bellegarde said Harper should move quickly on certain policy proposals, such as promoting the use of native languages and introducing aboriginal rights in the school curriculums across the nation. Bellegarde also stressed that more funding is desperately needed for equal education on reserves, where the government spends 3,000 dollars less per student than the national average.The upcoming federal elections this October might still turn the tide in favour of the First Nations. Leaders of the two opposition parties \u2013 the New Democratic Party and the Liberal Party \u2013 have both promised to act on key policies if elected on October 19. There has been growing support in the general population for aboriginal requests, with three quarters of Canadians in favour of a public enquiry on violence against indigenous women who are four times more at risk of being murdered. NDP\u2019s Thomas Mulcair has pledged that he would set up one within days of being elected.Tom-Lindley hopes that the awareness and political pressure on the Harper government will continue to grow until Election Day. \u201cCanadians are starting to get the message that this is not only an aboriginal issue, it concerns everyone. We have found our voice and we will not keep quiet anymore.\u201d", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Canada confronts its dark history of abuse in residential schools"},{"date": "2015-06-25T19:00:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "O Canada! Land of the beaver, the goose, bear and moose, the maple, caribou, mountie and loon. Such a landscape of vast space \u2013 the second biggest of any nation in the world, behind Russia, but larger than China and the US, and with the world\u2019s biggest volume of fresh water in a whopping, lapping 31,700 lakes. As Canadian singer-songwriter Paul Anka (who, incidentally wrote for Frank Sinatra, Tom Jones and Michael Jackson) put it, it\u2019s a country \u201cthat has a gentler, slower pace - it lends perspective\u201d. This, and all those lakes, is something to musically reflect on in time for this coming Canada Day on 1 July.I visited the land of the maple leaf when I was 12 to see an auntie, uncle and cousins. I was gobsmacked at the scale of things \u2013 we took a very slow train from Edmonton in Alberta, going west, and visited Banff National Park, spotted a moose, crossed part of the Athabaska glacier on a snowcat then drank, trickling from its gentle melt, some of the purest water in the world. For two days the train, with a curved glass viewing dome, trundled across vast plains, ending up in Vancouver, where, in Stanley Park, I was amazed to spot and throw nuts to squirrels the size of cats, and all of them entirely black.Think of Canadian music and you\u2019ll probably recall songs by Neil Young, Joni Mitchell, Leonard Cohen, Alanis Morissette, Arcade Fire, KD Lang or Shania Twain, or if you\u2019re not so lucky, Celine Dion. Or if you just read the tabloids, Justin Bieber. But simply naming songs by Canadians won\u2019t cut the mustard, or indeed the Montreal smoked meat, nor will it put out the poutine, or sweeten the selection process like maple syrup might. Major Canadian artists will only be worth mentioning if their songs are about Canada, its cities, people, or some aspect of Canadian life. But this topic does include other lesser known artists who may not mention Canada, but in some way represent the culture of the country. Canada has a strong history of jazz from Oscar Peterson to Diana Krall. Much of the music draws on the country\u2019s bilingual heritage. You might choose to draw, for example, from the rich influences of the lively Quebec scene, perhaps from satirical singer Madame Bolduc, other French inspirations from Brittany and Picardy, the rock and metal of the Stills or Godspeed You! Black Emperor, the hip-hip of Loco Locasse and more, the Inuit influence, the Celtic folk influx from Scotland and Ireland, not to mention the Aboriginal sounds and stories from the Inuit, M\u00e9tis, Iroquois, Mi\u2019kmaq, Huron, and Haida. Now have a taste of some pretty astonishing Inuit throat singing.What does Canada mean to you? Like many countries it has a harsh history of invasion and colonialism. But it has always struck me as a down-to-earth and welcoming place, laid back in its rich multiculturalism, and proud to contrast, in some ways, to its brasher, flashier neighbour to the south. But while a majority of Canada\u2019s population live in the southern areas, within reach of the borders of the US for commercial reasons, perhaps your song choices may include something that tells how it differs from America, and how this has shaped its identity. Canada, for example, has a national healthcare service, not unlike Britain\u2019s NHS. As the writer Douglas Coupland put it: \u201cIn Canada, we\u2019re happy to provide a safe haven for next-door neighbours in the middle of a marital dispute. And if anyone trips while crossing the border, we\u2019re happy to set their broken bones for free.\u201dAlternatively your song suggestions might touch on wonders of nature as well as the effects of climate change causing extreme temperatures, including the last year\u2019s extraordinary freeze of Ontario\u2019s Niagara falls. Alternatively your songs might hit on bruising ice hockey falls, a sport that\u2019s a national obsession. Canada is also a big exporter of comedians and comic actors from Mike Myers to John Candy, Rick Moranis to Leslie Neilsen, so your songs might be heavily humorous. So where might your choices come from? Can we (the) Guess Who? There\u2019s a huge list of multifarious artists, from Barenaked Ladies to Bedouin Soundclash, C\u0153ur de Pirate to Crystal Castles, Fucked Up to Hooded Fang, Ladyhawk to Men Without Hats Nickelback to the Slugs, or Trooper to Yukon Blonde.So then, this week\u2019s topic may be as much about discovery as prior knowledge, so get beavering, dig deep and come up with some Canadian treasure, whether that be inspired by the busy cities, the quiet towns or the huge, beautiful countryside. There can be no finer Canadian connoisseur than this week\u2019s music guru - returning lord of the RR vaults, Marconius \u2013 who will as ever, will judge your nominations with faultless grace, thoroughness, and efficiency. Put in your nominations in comments below or optionally in the Spotify list by last orders (11pm BST) on Monday 29 June for the results list published next Thursday 2 July.To increase the likelihood of your nomination being considered, please:\u2022 Tell us why it\u2019s a worthy contender.\u2022 Quote lyrics if helpful, but for copyright reasons no more than a third of a song\u2019s words.\u2022 Provide a link to the song. We prefer Muzu or YouTube, but Spotify or SoundCloud are fine.\u2022 Listen to others people\u2019s suggestions and add yours to a collaborative Spotify playlist.\u2022 If you have a good theme for Readers recommend, or if you\u2019d like to volunteer to compile a playlist, please email peter.kimpton@theguardian.com\u2022 There\u2019s a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are \u201czedded\u201d, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of \u201czedded\u201d, \u201cdonds\u201d and other strange words used by RR regulars.\u2022 Many RR regulars also congregate at the \u2018Spill blog.", "tags": ["Music", "Pop and rock", "Canada", "Americas", "Culture", "World music", "Jazz", "Animals", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Neil Young", "Joni Mitchell", "Leonard Cohen", "Alanis Morissette", "Justin Bieber", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Science", "Indie", "Hip-hop", "Books", "France", "Dance music", "Comedy", "Film", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Arcade Fire"], "title": "Readers recommend: songs from or about Canada"},{"date": "2015-06-26T10:30:05Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A plan to erect a 10-storey statue in a national park on one of Canada\u2019s most scenic shorelines has prompted outrage and sparked a growing political row as the country heads towards a general election this fall.The statue of Mother Canada \u2013 a cloaked female figure with her arms outstretched towards the Atlantic Ocean \u2013 is intended to honour the country\u2019s soldiers who died overseas.But growing anger over the plan has made it a new focus of opposition to the increasingly unpopular government of Conservative prime minister Stephen Harper.The proposed monument is an awkwardly remodelled, vastly upscaled version of an earlier statue, known as Canada Bereft, which adorns the memorial to the country\u2019s first world war dead near Vimy, France. The design has been widely lambasted both for its design and its proposed location in Cape Breton Highlands national park. In an editorial this week, the Globe and Mail newspaper described it as \u201coffensively tasteless\u201d and a \u201chubristically arrogant act of arrogant unoriginality\u201d.\u201cThe bigger-is-better approach to art is best left to Stalinist tyrants, theme park entrepreneurs and insecure municipalities hoping to waylay bored drive-by tourists,\u201d the paper wrote. The project is the brainchild of Toronto businessman Tony Trigiani, who was inspired after a chance visit to a Canadian war cemetery in Italy and set up the Never Forgotten National Memorial Foundation to realise the plan. The initiative gained early and enthusiastic support from the Harper government, which has donated the necessary public land and $100,000 from its parks budget to help erect the colossus on a rocky spit along the Cabot Trail, eastern Canada\u2019s most popular scenic drive. The foundation hopes to raise $25m to complete the project, in part by selling corporate sponsorships that will be prominently acknowledged on the site. Growing criticism in the nation\u2019s media has helped swing opinion against the grandiose scheme, but opponents fear the fate of rocky, windswept Green Cove is already sealed. \u201cWe\u2019re pleased with the momentum,\u201d said Sean Howard, spokesman for Friends of Green Cove. \u201cWhat we don\u2019t know is how much time we have. Our worst fear is that they\u2019re going to send the bulldozers in before the federal election this fall.\u201d \u201cBut until Green Cove becomes concrete cove,\u201d Howard added, \u201cwe\u2019re going to keep fighting.\u201d Trigiani\u2019s Never Forgotten National Memorial Foundation and the government hope to have the colossus up by 2017, the sesquicentennial of Canadian Confederation and also the centennial of the Battle of Vimy Ridge. In addition to the statue, the monument will include such amenities as the Commemorative Ring of True Patriot Love, the True North Commemorative Square and the With Glowing Hearts National Sanctuary \u2013 all named after the English lyrics of O Canada, the national anthem.Howard accuses the monument of a \u201ckitsch glorification of war\u201d, but local opponents are also angered by the speed with which the project is to be executed. \u201cYou have to have a very strange process to get through such a strange product,\u201d Howard said. \u201cIt\u2019s hair-raising how fast they want to do it.\u201d\u201cA significant majority of those who are engaged with the issue believe that the statue either shouldn\u2019t be built anywhere or for sure shouldn\u2019t be plopped down in a beautiful national park,\u201d Howard said. A spokesman for Parks Canada declined to answer questions about the monument, describing it as \u201cprivately funded\u201d and referring inquiries to the Never Forgotten Foundation. Trigiani, president of the foundation, declined a request to be interviewed. With criticism of the monument going national, the most articulate opponent remains Cape Breton resident Valerie Bird, 93, who served as an auxilliary with the royal air force in the Middle East during the second world war. \u201cIt is vulgar and ostentatious,\u201d she said. \u201cIt certainly doesn\u2019t belong in a national park, and I don\u2019t think its going to do a darn thing for veterans.\u201d \u201cI think the idea of this horrible thing offends veterans,\u201d she added. \u201cI find it difficult to find words. This is a monstrosity.\u201d", "tags": ["Canada", "National parks", "Americas", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Environment"], "title": "'Offensively tasteless' Mother Canada statue plan sparks outrage against PM"},{"date": "2015-06-06T12:00:07Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Sue Caribou contracts pneumonia once a year, like clockwork. The recurring illness stems from her childhood years at one of Canada\u2019s horrific residential schools. \u201cI was thrown into a cold shower every night, sometimes after being raped\u201d, the frail 50-year-old indigenous mother of six said, matter-of-factly.Caribou was snatched from her parents\u2019 house in 1972 by the state-funded, church-run Indian Residential School system that brutally attempted to assimilate native children for over a century. She was only seven years old. \u201cWe had to stand like soldiers while singing the national anthem, otherwise, we would be beaten up\u201d, she recalled.Caribou said Catholic missionaries physically and sexually abused her until 1979 at the Guy Hill institution, in the east of the province of Manitoba. She said she was called a \u201cdog\u201d, was forced to eat rotten vegetables and was forbidden to speak her native language of Cree.\u201cI vowed to myself that if I ever get out alive of that horrible place, I would speak up and fight for our rights\u201d, she said.Her voice and that of 150,000 other residential school pupils was finally heard across the nation this week as Canada faced one of the darkest chapters in its history. The head of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC), set up to examine the school system\u2019s legacy, did not mince his words when he unveiled his landmark report. \u201cCanada clearly participated in a period of cultural genocide\u201d, declared Justice Murray Sinclair to cries and applause of survivors in Ottawa. Although prime minister Stephen Harper apologised for the school system in 2008 (as did the Roman Catholic Church in 2009), his government has always denied that it was a form of genocide.Many survivors who gathered in Ottawa felt empowered for the first time in their life after hearing findings of the six-year-long commission. \u201cIt feels like our story is validated at last and is out there for the world to see\u201d, said a tearful 58 year-old Cindy Tom-Lindley, who is executive director of the Indian Residential School Survivor Society in British Columbia. \u201cWe were too scared as children to speak out. So to give our testimonies to the commission was liberating and emotional.\u201dAs many as 6,000 children died in residential institutions, which ran from 1876 to 1996. The accurate figure could be much higher however, since the government stopped recording aboriginal students\u2019 deaths in 1920 in light of the alarming statistics. Caribou believes that dozens of pupils perished at the institution where she was detained. \u201cRemains were found all over the fields. But numbers do not reflect the reality. Many of my friends committed suicide after their release\u201d, said Caribou, who said she was frustrated that an inquiry did not take place twenty years ago, after the last of the residential schools closedJustice Sinclair, who was the second aboriginal judge to be appointed in Canada in 1988, made clear the connection between residential schools and the social ills plaguing the First Nations today, namely unemployment, domestic violence, the over-representation of aboriginal children in foster care and the high homicide rate of indigenous women.\u201cI didn\u2019t learn anything at the Guy Hill school except the \u201cOur Father\u201d prayer and the national anthem\u201d, said Caribou. \u201cMy children taught me how to read and write. I\u2019ve been a housekeeper all my life because of my lack of education and poor health\u201d.The hopeful mood among survivors in the capital was met with silence by the government, despite urgent calls to act on the commission\u2019s 94 recommendations. Prime Minister Harper did not utter a word while he attended the emotional closing ceremony of the TRC on Thursday, nor did he announce any measures that would further reconciliation for survivors and close the economic gap between First Nations and non-aboriginal Canadians.Since coming into power in 2006, the Conservative government has repeatedly rejected some long-standing demands by First Nations, such as holding a national enquiry on the missing and murdered aboriginal women, a measure also recommended by Justice Sinclair.\u201cIf Stephen Harper\u2019s apology for residential schools is not followed by actions, it will prove to be meaningless\u201d, warned Perry Bellegarde, Chief of the Assembly of First Nations. Bellegarde said Harper should move quickly on certain policy proposals, such as promoting the use of native languages and introducing aboriginal rights in the school curriculums across the nation. Bellegarde also stressed that more funding is desperately needed for equal education on reserves, where the government spends 3,000 dollars less per student than the national average.The upcoming federal elections this October might still turn the tide in favour of the First Nations. Leaders of the two opposition parties \u2013 the New Democratic Party and the Liberal Party \u2013 have both promised to act on key policies if elected on October 19. There has been growing support in the general population for aboriginal requests, with three quarters of Canadians in favour of a public enquiry on violence against indigenous women who are four times more at risk of being murdered. NDP\u2019s Thomas Mulcair has pledged that he would set up one within days of being elected.Tom-Lindley hopes that the awareness and political pressure on the Harper government will continue to grow until Election Day. \u201cCanadians are starting to get the message that this is not only an aboriginal issue, it concerns everyone. We have found our voice and we will not keep quiet anymore.\u201d", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Canada confronts its dark history of abuse in residential schools"},{"date": "2015-06-04T16:33:35Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When fossil experts first clapped eyes on the skull, it was clearly from a strange, horned dinosaur. When they noticed how stunted the bony horns were, its nickname, Hellboy, was assured.The near-complete skull of the 70 million-year-old beast was spotted by chance 10 years ago, protruding from a cliff that runs along the Oldman river south of Calgary in Alberta, Canada.Painstakingly excavated, cleaned up and measured since then, the fossilised remains have now been identified as a relative of the three-horned triceratops, and the first example of a horned dinosaur to be found in that region of North America.Like triceratops, the new species was a herbivore. But it sported a more impressive shield, or frill, at the back of its skull, decorated with large triangular and pentagonal plates. The extraordinary features led researchers to name the new species Regaliceratops peterhewsi, a reference to the impressive crown-like frill, and to Peter Hews, a Calgary-based geologist who first spotted part of the skull jutting from the rockface in 2005.Researchers came up with the Hellboy nickname long before they had liberated the full skull from the cliff face. The main reason was that the rock the fossil was embedded in was incredibly hard, making excavation a hellish, and years-long, task. That job was made even tougher because the Oldman river is a protected fish-breeding ground, meaning the scientists had to erect a dam at the site to prevent debris from the excavation falling into the river.\u201cIt was a coincidence, but when we noticed that the skull had these short horns over the eyes, that really solidified the nickname,\u201d Caleb Brown at the Royal Tyrrell Museum of Paleontology in Alberta told the Guardian. In the Hellboy comics and movies, the eponmymous demon grinds his horns to stumps with an electric sander to help him fit in with mere mortals. But the horns of the dinosaur tell a more interesting story. Triceratops belonged to a group of horned dinosaurs called chasmosaurines. These had a small horn over the nose and two larger horns over the eyes. And while regaliceratops is definitely a chasmosaurine, it has a long nose horn and puny horns over its eyes. These features, opposite to those characteristic of triceratops, are seen in a different group of horned dinosaurs, called centrosaurines, which were extinct by the time regaliceratops came along. The bizarre mix of features is an example of convergent evolution, where one species evolves bodily characteristics that arose separately in other species through the course of prehistory. Brown and his colleague, Donald Henderson, describe the creature\u2019s remains in Current Biology.\u201cThis is a really interesting new dinosaur,\u201d said Steve Brusatte, a vertebrate paleontologist at Edinburgh University. \u201cIt\u2019s a close relative of triceratops, but it\u2019s horns and skull frill are very different. They look a lot more like other types of horned dinosaurs that lived earlier in time, which went extinct before triceratops thrived. \u201cWhat it\u2019s indicating is that there was massive convergence between the horns and frills of those horned dinosaurs that were thriving during the final few million years before the asteroid hit and killed off the dinosaurs. Because this new dinosaur is one of the latest surviving horned dinosaurs, living at a similar time as triceratops, it is also telling us that horned dinosaurs remained quite diverse right until the end. To me, this is a strong hint that these dinosaurs were at or near the top of their game when that asteroid fell out of the sky,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Dinosaurs", "Evolution", "Fossils", "Science"], "title": "New species of dinosaur, the regaliceratops, discovered in Canada"},{"date": "2015-06-25T19:00:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "O Canada! Land of the beaver, the goose, bear and moose, the maple, caribou, mountie and loon. Such a landscape of vast space \u2013 the second biggest of any nation in the world, behind Russia, but larger than China and the US, and with the world\u2019s biggest volume of fresh water in a whopping, lapping 31,700 lakes. As Canadian singer-songwriter Paul Anka (who, incidentally wrote for Frank Sinatra, Tom Jones and Michael Jackson) put it, it\u2019s a country \u201cthat has a gentler, slower pace - it lends perspective\u201d. This, and all those lakes, is something to musically reflect on in time for this coming Canada Day on 1 July.I visited the land of the maple leaf when I was 12 to see an auntie, uncle and cousins. I was gobsmacked at the scale of things \u2013 we took a very slow train from Edmonton in Alberta, going west, and visited Banff National Park, spotted a moose, crossed part of the Athabaska glacier on a snowcat then drank, trickling from its gentle melt, some of the purest water in the world. For two days the train, with a curved glass viewing dome, trundled across vast plains, ending up in Vancouver, where, in Stanley Park, I was amazed to spot and throw nuts to squirrels the size of cats, and all of them entirely black.Think of Canadian music and you\u2019ll probably recall songs by Neil Young, Joni Mitchell, Leonard Cohen, Alanis Morissette, Arcade Fire, KD Lang or Shania Twain, or if you\u2019re not so lucky, Celine Dion. Or if you just read the tabloids, Justin Bieber. But simply naming songs by Canadians won\u2019t cut the mustard, or indeed the Montreal smoked meat, nor will it put out the poutine, or sweeten the selection process like maple syrup might. Major Canadian artists will only be worth mentioning if their songs are about Canada, its cities, people, or some aspect of Canadian life. But this topic does include other lesser known artists who may not mention Canada, but in some way represent the culture of the country. Canada has a strong history of jazz from Oscar Peterson to Diana Krall. Much of the music draws on the country\u2019s bilingual heritage. You might choose to draw, for example, from the rich influences of the lively Quebec scene, perhaps from satirical singer Madame Bolduc, other French inspirations from Brittany and Picardy, the rock and metal of the Stills or Godspeed You! Black Emperor, the hip-hip of Loco Locasse and more, the Inuit influence, the Celtic folk influx from Scotland and Ireland, not to mention the Aboriginal sounds and stories from the Inuit, M\u00e9tis, Iroquois, Mi\u2019kmaq, Huron, and Haida. Now have a taste of some pretty astonishing Inuit throat singing.What does Canada mean to you? Like many countries it has a harsh history of invasion and colonialism. But it has always struck me as a down-to-earth and welcoming place, laid back in its rich multiculturalism, and proud to contrast, in some ways, to its brasher, flashier neighbour to the south. But while a majority of Canada\u2019s population live in the southern areas, within reach of the borders of the US for commercial reasons, perhaps your song choices may include something that tells how it differs from America, and how this has shaped its identity. Canada, for example, has a national healthcare service, not unlike Britain\u2019s NHS. As the writer Douglas Coupland put it: \u201cIn Canada, we\u2019re happy to provide a safe haven for next-door neighbours in the middle of a marital dispute. And if anyone trips while crossing the border, we\u2019re happy to set their broken bones for free.\u201dAlternatively your song suggestions might touch on wonders of nature as well as the effects of climate change causing extreme temperatures, including the last year\u2019s extraordinary freeze of Ontario\u2019s Niagara falls. Alternatively your songs might hit on bruising ice hockey falls, a sport that\u2019s a national obsession. Canada is also a big exporter of comedians and comic actors from Mike Myers to John Candy, Rick Moranis to Leslie Neilsen, so your songs might be heavily humorous. So where might your choices come from? Can we (the) Guess Who? There\u2019s a huge list of multifarious artists, from Barenaked Ladies to Bedouin Soundclash, C\u0153ur de Pirate to Crystal Castles, Fucked Up to Hooded Fang, Ladyhawk to Men Without Hats Nickelback to the Slugs, or Trooper to Yukon Blonde.So then, this week\u2019s topic may be as much about discovery as prior knowledge, so get beavering, dig deep and come up with some Canadian treasure, whether that be inspired by the busy cities, the quiet towns or the huge, beautiful countryside. There can be no finer Canadian connoisseur than this week\u2019s music guru - returning lord of the RR vaults, Marconius \u2013 who will as ever, will judge your nominations with faultless grace, thoroughness, and efficiency. Put in your nominations in comments below or optionally in the Spotify list by last orders (11pm BST) on Monday 29 June for the results list published next Thursday 2 July.To increase the likelihood of your nomination being considered, please:\u2022 Tell us why it\u2019s a worthy contender.\u2022 Quote lyrics if helpful, but for copyright reasons no more than a third of a song\u2019s words.\u2022 Provide a link to the song. We prefer Muzu or YouTube, but Spotify or SoundCloud are fine.\u2022 Listen to others people\u2019s suggestions and add yours to a collaborative Spotify playlist.\u2022 If you have a good theme for Readers recommend, or if you\u2019d like to volunteer to compile a playlist, please email peter.kimpton@theguardian.com\u2022 There\u2019s a wealth of data on RR, including the songs that are \u201czedded\u201d, at the Marconium. It also tells you the meaning of \u201czedded\u201d, \u201cdonds\u201d and other strange words used by RR regulars.\u2022 Many RR regulars also congregate at the \u2018Spill blog.", "tags": ["Music", "Pop and rock", "Canada", "Americas", "Culture", "World music", "Jazz", "Animals", "Wildlife", "Environment", "Neil Young", "Joni Mitchell", "Leonard Cohen", "Alanis Morissette", "Justin Bieber", "Climate change", "Climate change", "Science", "Indie", "Hip-hop", "Books", "France", "Dance music", "Comedy", "Film", "Food & drink", "Life and style", "Arcade Fire"], "title": "Readers recommend: songs from or about Canada"},{"date": "2015-06-26T10:30:05Z", "country": "canada", "content": "A plan to erect a 10-storey statue in a national park on one of Canada\u2019s most scenic shorelines has prompted outrage and sparked a growing political row as the country heads towards a general election this fall.The statue of Mother Canada \u2013 a cloaked female figure with her arms outstretched towards the Atlantic Ocean \u2013 is intended to honour the country\u2019s soldiers who died overseas.But growing anger over the plan has made it a new focus of opposition to the increasingly unpopular government of Conservative prime minister Stephen Harper.The proposed monument is an awkwardly remodelled, vastly upscaled version of an earlier statue, known as Canada Bereft, which adorns the memorial to the country\u2019s first world war dead near Vimy, France. The design has been widely lambasted both for its design and its proposed location in Cape Breton Highlands national park. In an editorial this week, the Globe and Mail newspaper described it as \u201coffensively tasteless\u201d and a \u201chubristically arrogant act of arrogant unoriginality\u201d.\u201cThe bigger-is-better approach to art is best left to Stalinist tyrants, theme park entrepreneurs and insecure municipalities hoping to waylay bored drive-by tourists,\u201d the paper wrote. The project is the brainchild of Toronto businessman Tony Trigiani, who was inspired after a chance visit to a Canadian war cemetery in Italy and set up the Never Forgotten National Memorial Foundation to realise the plan. The initiative gained early and enthusiastic support from the Harper government, which has donated the necessary public land and $100,000 from its parks budget to help erect the colossus on a rocky spit along the Cabot Trail, eastern Canada\u2019s most popular scenic drive. The foundation hopes to raise $25m to complete the project, in part by selling corporate sponsorships that will be prominently acknowledged on the site. Growing criticism in the nation\u2019s media has helped swing opinion against the grandiose scheme, but opponents fear the fate of rocky, windswept Green Cove is already sealed. \u201cWe\u2019re pleased with the momentum,\u201d said Sean Howard, spokesman for Friends of Green Cove. \u201cWhat we don\u2019t know is how much time we have. Our worst fear is that they\u2019re going to send the bulldozers in before the federal election this fall.\u201d \u201cBut until Green Cove becomes concrete cove,\u201d Howard added, \u201cwe\u2019re going to keep fighting.\u201d Trigiani\u2019s Never Forgotten National Memorial Foundation and the government hope to have the colossus up by 2017, the sesquicentennial of Canadian Confederation and also the centennial of the Battle of Vimy Ridge. In addition to the statue, the monument will include such amenities as the Commemorative Ring of True Patriot Love, the True North Commemorative Square and the With Glowing Hearts National Sanctuary \u2013 all named after the English lyrics of O Canada, the national anthem.Howard accuses the monument of a \u201ckitsch glorification of war\u201d, but local opponents are also angered by the speed with which the project is to be executed. \u201cYou have to have a very strange process to get through such a strange product,\u201d Howard said. \u201cIt\u2019s hair-raising how fast they want to do it.\u201d\u201cA significant majority of those who are engaged with the issue believe that the statue either shouldn\u2019t be built anywhere or for sure shouldn\u2019t be plopped down in a beautiful national park,\u201d Howard said. A spokesman for Parks Canada declined to answer questions about the monument, describing it as \u201cprivately funded\u201d and referring inquiries to the Never Forgotten Foundation. Trigiani, president of the foundation, declined a request to be interviewed. With criticism of the monument going national, the most articulate opponent remains Cape Breton resident Valerie Bird, 93, who served as an auxilliary with the royal air force in the Middle East during the second world war. \u201cIt is vulgar and ostentatious,\u201d she said. \u201cIt certainly doesn\u2019t belong in a national park, and I don\u2019t think its going to do a darn thing for veterans.\u201d \u201cI think the idea of this horrible thing offends veterans,\u201d she added. \u201cI find it difficult to find words. This is a monstrosity.\u201d", "tags": ["Canada", "National parks", "Americas", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Environment"], "title": "'Offensively tasteless' Mother Canada statue plan sparks outrage against PM"},{"date": "2015-06-06T12:00:07Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Sue Caribou contracts pneumonia once a year, like clockwork. The recurring illness stems from her childhood years at one of Canada\u2019s horrific residential schools. \u201cI was thrown into a cold shower every night, sometimes after being raped\u201d, the frail 50-year-old indigenous mother of six said, matter-of-factly.Caribou was snatched from her parents\u2019 house in 1972 by the state-funded, church-run Indian Residential School system that brutally attempted to assimilate native children for over a century. She was only seven years old. \u201cWe had to stand like soldiers while singing the national anthem, otherwise, we would be beaten up\u201d, she recalled.Caribou said Catholic missionaries physically and sexually abused her until 1979 at the Guy Hill institution, in the east of the province of Manitoba. She said she was called a \u201cdog\u201d, was forced to eat rotten vegetables and was forbidden to speak her native language of Cree.\u201cI vowed to myself that if I ever get out alive of that horrible place, I would speak up and fight for our rights\u201d, she said.Her voice and that of 150,000 other residential school pupils was finally heard across the nation this week as Canada faced one of the darkest chapters in its history. The head of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (TRC), set up to examine the school system\u2019s legacy, did not mince his words when he unveiled his landmark report. \u201cCanada clearly participated in a period of cultural genocide\u201d, declared Justice Murray Sinclair to cries and applause of survivors in Ottawa. Although prime minister Stephen Harper apologised for the school system in 2008 (as did the Roman Catholic Church in 2009), his government has always denied that it was a form of genocide.Many survivors who gathered in Ottawa felt empowered for the first time in their life after hearing findings of the six-year-long commission. \u201cIt feels like our story is validated at last and is out there for the world to see\u201d, said a tearful 58 year-old Cindy Tom-Lindley, who is executive director of the Indian Residential School Survivor Society in British Columbia. \u201cWe were too scared as children to speak out. So to give our testimonies to the commission was liberating and emotional.\u201dAs many as 6,000 children died in residential institutions, which ran from 1876 to 1996. The accurate figure could be much higher however, since the government stopped recording aboriginal students\u2019 deaths in 1920 in light of the alarming statistics. Caribou believes that dozens of pupils perished at the institution where she was detained. \u201cRemains were found all over the fields. But numbers do not reflect the reality. Many of my friends committed suicide after their release\u201d, said Caribou, who said she was frustrated that an inquiry did not take place twenty years ago, after the last of the residential schools closedJustice Sinclair, who was the second aboriginal judge to be appointed in Canada in 1988, made clear the connection between residential schools and the social ills plaguing the First Nations today, namely unemployment, domestic violence, the over-representation of aboriginal children in foster care and the high homicide rate of indigenous women.\u201cI didn\u2019t learn anything at the Guy Hill school except the \u201cOur Father\u201d prayer and the national anthem\u201d, said Caribou. \u201cMy children taught me how to read and write. I\u2019ve been a housekeeper all my life because of my lack of education and poor health\u201d.The hopeful mood among survivors in the capital was met with silence by the government, despite urgent calls to act on the commission\u2019s 94 recommendations. Prime Minister Harper did not utter a word while he attended the emotional closing ceremony of the TRC on Thursday, nor did he announce any measures that would further reconciliation for survivors and close the economic gap between First Nations and non-aboriginal Canadians.Since coming into power in 2006, the Conservative government has repeatedly rejected some long-standing demands by First Nations, such as holding a national enquiry on the missing and murdered aboriginal women, a measure also recommended by Justice Sinclair.\u201cIf Stephen Harper\u2019s apology for residential schools is not followed by actions, it will prove to be meaningless\u201d, warned Perry Bellegarde, Chief of the Assembly of First Nations. Bellegarde said Harper should move quickly on certain policy proposals, such as promoting the use of native languages and introducing aboriginal rights in the school curriculums across the nation. Bellegarde also stressed that more funding is desperately needed for equal education on reserves, where the government spends 3,000 dollars less per student than the national average.The upcoming federal elections this October might still turn the tide in favour of the First Nations. Leaders of the two opposition parties \u2013 the New Democratic Party and the Liberal Party \u2013 have both promised to act on key policies if elected on October 19. There has been growing support in the general population for aboriginal requests, with three quarters of Canadians in favour of a public enquiry on violence against indigenous women who are four times more at risk of being murdered. NDP\u2019s Thomas Mulcair has pledged that he would set up one within days of being elected.Tom-Lindley hopes that the awareness and political pressure on the Harper government will continue to grow until Election Day. \u201cCanadians are starting to get the message that this is not only an aboriginal issue, it concerns everyone. We have found our voice and we will not keep quiet anymore.\u201d", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas"], "title": "Canada confronts its dark history of abuse in residential schools"},{"date": "2015-06-04T16:33:35Z", "country": "canada", "content": "When fossil experts first clapped eyes on the skull, it was clearly from a strange, horned dinosaur. When they noticed how stunted the bony horns were, its nickname, Hellboy, was assured.The near-complete skull of the 70 million-year-old beast was spotted by chance 10 years ago, protruding from a cliff that runs along the Oldman river south of Calgary in Alberta, Canada.Painstakingly excavated, cleaned up and measured since then, the fossilised remains have now been identified as a relative of the three-horned triceratops, and the first example of a horned dinosaur to be found in that region of North America.Like triceratops, the new species was a herbivore. But it sported a more impressive shield, or frill, at the back of its skull, decorated with large triangular and pentagonal plates. The extraordinary features led researchers to name the new species Regaliceratops peterhewsi, a reference to the impressive crown-like frill, and to Peter Hews, a Calgary-based geologist who first spotted part of the skull jutting from the rockface in 2005.Researchers came up with the Hellboy nickname long before they had liberated the full skull from the cliff face. The main reason was that the rock the fossil was embedded in was incredibly hard, making excavation a hellish, and years-long, task. That job was made even tougher because the Oldman river is a protected fish-breeding ground, meaning the scientists had to erect a dam at the site to prevent debris from the excavation falling into the river.\u201cIt was a coincidence, but when we noticed that the skull had these short horns over the eyes, that really solidified the nickname,\u201d Caleb Brown at the Royal Tyrrell Museum of Paleontology in Alberta told the Guardian. In the Hellboy comics and movies, the eponmymous demon grinds his horns to stumps with an electric sander to help him fit in with mere mortals. But the horns of the dinosaur tell a more interesting story. Triceratops belonged to a group of horned dinosaurs called chasmosaurines. These had a small horn over the nose and two larger horns over the eyes. And while regaliceratops is definitely a chasmosaurine, it has a long nose horn and puny horns over its eyes. These features, opposite to those characteristic of triceratops, are seen in a different group of horned dinosaurs, called centrosaurines, which were extinct by the time regaliceratops came along. The bizarre mix of features is an example of convergent evolution, where one species evolves bodily characteristics that arose separately in other species through the course of prehistory. Brown and his colleague, Donald Henderson, describe the creature\u2019s remains in Current Biology.\u201cThis is a really interesting new dinosaur,\u201d said Steve Brusatte, a vertebrate paleontologist at Edinburgh University. \u201cIt\u2019s a close relative of triceratops, but it\u2019s horns and skull frill are very different. They look a lot more like other types of horned dinosaurs that lived earlier in time, which went extinct before triceratops thrived. \u201cWhat it\u2019s indicating is that there was massive convergence between the horns and frills of those horned dinosaurs that were thriving during the final few million years before the asteroid hit and killed off the dinosaurs. Because this new dinosaur is one of the latest surviving horned dinosaurs, living at a similar time as triceratops, it is also telling us that horned dinosaurs remained quite diverse right until the end. To me, this is a strong hint that these dinosaurs were at or near the top of their game when that asteroid fell out of the sky,\u201d he said.", "tags": ["Dinosaurs", "Evolution", "Fossils", "Science"], "title": "New species of dinosaur, the regaliceratops, discovered in Canada"},{"date": "2015-05-05T10:30:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": " Related: Canadian anti-terror bill opens door for human rights abuses, law scholars argue Widespread protest and souring public opinion has failed to prevent Canada\u2019s ruling Conservative Party from pushing forward with sweeping anti-terror legislation which a battery of legal scholars, civil liberties groups, opposition politicians and pundits of every persuasion say will replace the country\u2019s healthy democracy with a creeping police state.Prime Minister Stephen Harper is looking forward to an easy victory on Tuesday when the House of Commons votes in its final debate on the bill, known as C-51. But lingering public anger over the legislation suggests that his success in dividing his parliamentary opposition may well work against him when Canadians go to the polls for a national election this fall.No legislation in memory has united such a diverse array of prominent opponents as the proposed legislation, which the Globe and Mail newspaper denounced as a a plan to create a \u201csecret police force\u201d.The campaign to stop Bill C-51 grew to include virtually every civil-rights group, law professor, retired judge, author, editorialist and public intellectual in Canada.\u201cThe scale of information sharing being proposed is unprecedented, the scope of the new powers conferred by the act is excessive, particularly as these powers affect ordinary Canadians, and the safeguards protecting against unreasonable loss of privacy are seriously deficient,\u201d declared Daniel Therrien, Privacy Commisioner of Canada, in a typical statement. \u201cAll Canadians would be caught in this web.\u201dStephen Harper is attacking our rights & freedoms. Please do the right thing and #VoteAgainstC51, @toadamvaughan. #cdnpoli\u201cStephen Harper is attacking our rights & freedoms,\u201d author Margaret Atwood tweeted, urging her local Member of Parliament to \u201cdo the right thing and #VoteAgainstC51\u201d.Defending the bill, Public Safety Minister Steven Blaney lashed out against \u201ckey misconceptions\u201d promoted by \u201cso-called experts\u201d, especially what he called the \u201ccompletely false, and frankly ridiculous\u201d claim that legitimate protest could be targeted as terrorism.Blaney and Justice Minister Peter MacKay have described the bill as a \u201creasonable and proportionate\u201d response to the threat of \u201cjihadi terrorism.\u201d The prime minister has derided its opponents as being out of touch with Canadian values.Hundreds of thousands of ordinary Canadians signed petitions urging the bill be scrapped and took to the streets in a national day of protest last month.Critics of the legislation say the imminent law gives Canadian spies sweeping new powers to investigate and disrupt broadly defined threats to public safety, with language that makes no distinction between terrorist plots and legitimate political protests and demonstrations. At the same time, it neglects to provide any increased oversight of the country\u2019s vastly empowered chief spy agency, the Canadian Security and Intelligence Service. \u201cThis is not an ordinary bill and this is not about politics anymore,\u201d Green Party leader Elizabeth May told the House of Commons last week. \u201cThis is about the soul of the country and a question of whether we understand what Canada stands for \u2013 for ourselves and what we represent around the world.\u201d Thomas Mulcair, leader of the opposition New Democratic Party, denounced the bill as \u201csweeping, dangerous, vague and ineffective\u201d. But much the same could be said of parliamentary efforts to stop Harper. After promising to support the bill in deference to its apparent popularity, Liberal Party leader Justin Trudeau was easily rebuffed in his call for amendments. Introduced in the wake of two lone-wolf terrorist attacks, one of which killed sentry Nathan Cirillo at the Canadian National War Memorial in Ottawa, the bill gained widespread initial support among ordinary Canadians. But in the weeks of criticism that followed, the polls turned and a majority began to express opposition.  It remains to be seen whether their anger will survive to make a difference in the general election this October. ", "tags": ["Canada", "Americas", "Stephen Harper", "World news"], "title": "Canada poised to pass anti-terror legislation despite widespread outrage"},{"date": "2015-09-10T23:37:06Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Amid a flurry of negative news stories and slipping poll figures, Canada\u2019s Conservative party has confirmed that it has enlisted the help of Lynton Crosby \u2013 the Australian political strategist who advised Britain\u2019s Conservative and Australia\u2019s Liberal parties \u2013 to help steer the party\u2019s struggling campaign for re-election. Related: Lynton Crosby: the man who really won the election for the Tories Campaign spokesman Kory Teneycke confirmed on Thursday that the Tories have been seeking advice from Crosby, the bare-knuckle campaign adviser credited with helping engineer David Cameron\u2019s absolute majority in the British general election last May.\u201cWe were fans of Lynton Crosby before many people knew who Lynton Crosby was,\u201d Teneycke told the Guardian. Teneycke said Crosby has given the party \u201cformal and informal advice\u201d over many years, adding that the Australian adviser met with the campaign team a couple of months ago and has been helped the party with analysis of research and polling. \u201cI\u2019m not going to comment on the specific nature of the relationship but it\u2019s a close one and an ongoing one and one that predates this campaign,\u201d he said.  Related: Lynton Crosby: can the \u2018Lizard of Oz\u2019 win the election for the Tories? Crosby, who has drawn comparisons to George W Bush\u2019s campaign chief Karl Rove, is known for bringing a sharp focus to campaign messaging. But he also comes with a reputation for an aggressive style and a playbook that includes negative campaigning and so-called \u201cwedge politics\u201d \u2013 a tactic using often controversial social issues to split voter opinion in their favour.The mayor of London, Boris Johnson, whose 2008 and 2012 wins Crosby helped orchestrate, once described him in an interview as \u201ca man who never lets an abusive thought form in his mind without immediately forming it into a text and sending it to the object of his wrath\u201d.Crosby was dubbed the \u201cWizard of Oz\u201d for delivering four successive Conservative election victories to the former Australian prime minister John Howard, although his political rivals have been less flattering: the former British politician Vince Cable once referred to him as \u201can Australian rottweiler\u201d.New polling figures suggest that Stephen Harper\u2019s party will need all the help it can get: a poll released earlier this week showed the Conservatives at third place behind the two main left-leaning opposition parties, the New Democrats and the Liberals. The Nanos survey has the New Democratic Party (NDP) at 32.7%, the Liberals at 30.8% and the Conservatives at 26.2%. A previous Nanos poll last month showed the Conservatives leading the race at 41%.The party has been buffeted by a weakening economy, and a string of controversies and blunders in recent weeks. The party is facing heated criticism over its handling of the Syrian refugee crisis, after it emerged that a Syrian boy whose body ashore in Turkey had family in Canada. On Thursday Harper suggested that if re-elected his party would work to speed up the processing of asylum claims. A senate spending and corruption scandal has also dogged the Conservative leader on the campaign trail and has embroiled some of his most trusted and senior staff.Canadians go to the polls 19 October. ", "tags": ["Canada", "Lynton Crosby", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada election 2015: Tories seek out 'Australian rottweiler' Lynton Crosby"},{"date": "2015-09-10T23:37:06Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Amid a flurry of negative news stories and slipping poll figures, Canada\u2019s Conservative party has confirmed that it has enlisted the help of Lynton Crosby \u2013 the Australian political strategist who advised Britain\u2019s Conservative and Australia\u2019s Liberal parties \u2013 to help steer the party\u2019s struggling campaign for re-election. Related: Lynton Crosby: the man who really won the election for the Tories Campaign spokesman Kory Teneycke confirmed on Thursday that the Tories have been seeking advice from Crosby, the bare-knuckle campaign adviser credited with helping engineer David Cameron\u2019s absolute majority in the British general election last May.\u201cWe were fans of Lynton Crosby before many people knew who Lynton Crosby was,\u201d Teneycke told the Guardian. Teneycke said Crosby has given the party \u201cformal and informal advice\u201d over many years, adding that the Australian adviser met with the campaign team a couple of months ago and has been helped the party with analysis of research and polling. \u201cI\u2019m not going to comment on the specific nature of the relationship but it\u2019s a close one and an ongoing one and one that predates this campaign,\u201d he said.  Related: Lynton Crosby: can the \u2018Lizard of Oz\u2019 win the election for the Tories? Crosby, who has drawn comparisons to George W Bush\u2019s campaign chief Karl Rove, is known for bringing a sharp focus to campaign messaging. But he also comes with a reputation for an aggressive style and a playbook that includes negative campaigning and so-called \u201cwedge politics\u201d \u2013 a tactic using often controversial social issues to split voter opinion in their favour.The mayor of London, Boris Johnson, whose 2008 and 2012 wins Crosby helped orchestrate, once described him in an interview as \u201ca man who never lets an abusive thought form in his mind without immediately forming it into a text and sending it to the object of his wrath\u201d.Crosby was dubbed the \u201cWizard of Oz\u201d for delivering four successive Conservative election victories to the former Australian prime minister John Howard, although his political rivals have been less flattering: the former British politician Vince Cable once referred to him as \u201can Australian rottweiler\u201d.New polling figures suggest that Stephen Harper\u2019s party will need all the help it can get: a poll released earlier this week showed the Conservatives at third place behind the two main left-leaning opposition parties, the New Democrats and the Liberals. The Nanos survey has the New Democratic Party (NDP) at 32.7%, the Liberals at 30.8% and the Conservatives at 26.2%. A previous Nanos poll last month showed the Conservatives leading the race at 41%.The party has been buffeted by a weakening economy, and a string of controversies and blunders in recent weeks. The party is facing heated criticism over its handling of the Syrian refugee crisis, after it emerged that a Syrian boy whose body ashore in Turkey had family in Canada. On Thursday Harper suggested that if re-elected his party would work to speed up the processing of asylum claims. A senate spending and corruption scandal has also dogged the Conservative leader on the campaign trail and has embroiled some of his most trusted and senior staff.Canadians go to the polls 19 October. ", "tags": ["Canada", "Lynton Crosby", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada election 2015: Tories seek out 'Australian rottweiler' Lynton Crosby"},{"date": "2015-09-06T11:15:06Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The death of the Syrian Kurdi family on Wednesday \u2013 and the terrible image of three-year-old Alan washed up on a Turkish beach \u2013 has provoked international outrage at Canada\u2019s apparent indifference toward refugees. The high cost of asylum applications, government disengagement from the asylum process and biases in the granting of asylum means that many refugees never reach Canada\u2019s shores \u2013 and some die tragically as a result.In an interview with a National Post reporter this week, the children\u2019s aunt, Teema Kurdi, revealed that the family\u2019s application to join her in Vancouver had been rejected by Canadian Immigration authorities, thus prompting the fatal sea journey.It later emerged that in fact the family never formally applied for asylum, because of the serious bureaucratic hurdles and the expense involved, as well as her own modest resources, which had already been diverted into an unsuccessful attempt to help another brother seek asylum in Canada. Instead she had her local MP Fin Donnelly hand-deliver a letter seeking assistance to Immigration Minister Chris Alexander, which went unanswered.It is not just the cost of asylum applications that are being scrutinized as a result of the Kurdis\u2019 deaths, but also the state\u2019s lack of involvement in the asylum process and their insistence on cumbersome bureaucratic procedure, even in war zones. Private sponsorship programs are currently the asylum-seeking mode of choice for Canada\u2019s Conservative government, which refugee groups say has been disastrous for people fleeing conflict.On Wednesday, Immigration Minister Chris Alexander was repeatedly challenged by national CBC host Rosemary Barton on why the Conservatives were turning to the private sector to sponsor refugees rather than the more traditional government sponsorship route \u2013 a claim he continued to deny. He then went on to falsely claim that this was the program\u2019s first panel discussion on the topic. In an about face, the next day, he suspended his campaign to return to Ottawa and focus on investigations into the Kurdi case and even Prime Minister Stephen Harper included the tragedy in his campaign speeches \u2013 albeit as a pretext for more military engagement in the region.Canada\u2019s policies toward people fleeing persecution and conflict worsened significantly with the election of Harper. The Conservative government has only offered federal assistance to 457 Syrian refugees - out of a promised 10,000 - according to New Democratic Party foreign affairs critic Paul Dewar. According to the Canadian Association of Refugee Lawyers, new laws introduced in 2012 cut off healthcare for asylum seekers, criminalized them and imposed \u201cunrealistic time limits for refugee claimants to prove their claims\u201d that \u201cresult in grave injustices\u201d and undermine Canada\u2019s human rights record.According to the advocacy group No One is Illegal, as a result of new government restrictions, refugee claims decreased by 50% and the number of accepted refugees dropped by 30% between 2006 (when Stephen Harper was first elected) and 2012. A law introduced in 2014 denied social assistance to a majority of refugees and was condemned by Amnesty International and other human rights groups as being in violation of international law.The Conservative government also introduced policies that discriminate in favor of ethnic and religious minorities in the Middle East \u2013 favoring Christians over Muslims \u2013 which is also illegal under international charters, as well as draconian laws on immigration detention. According to No one is illegal, over the past decade the government has imprisoned an average of 11,000 migrants a year, including up to 807 children.The half-life of the detained migrant is largely unknown by Canadian society \u2013 that is, until a death in custody occurs and happens to receive media coverage.Since 2000 there have been over a dozen documented deaths, including that of Lucia Vega Jimenez, a Mexican woman, whose story is Kafkaesque. Caught by Vancouver transit police without a bus ticket one day in 2013, she was taken to a detention facility and threatened with deportation. After weeks of incarceration and with her deportation looming, she took her own life rather than return to Mexico where she had repeatedly said she was afraid for her safety because of a violent ex-boyfriend.Such stories are not unique to 21st century Canada. In fact, the \u201ctrue north strong and free\u201d has many shameful incidents in its past around migration issues. In 1939, a boatload of over 900 German Jewish refugees was turned away from Halifax harbor. When entry was refused, the boat turned back to Europe, where almost a third of the passengers would later die in concentration camps.Another shameful moment in Canada\u2019s history was the Komagata Maru incident. In 1914, a boatload of 376 subjects from the Punjab in then-British India were denied entry into the port of Vancouver and were kept languishing in difficult conditions for weeks. Eventually only 24 were allowed to disembark in what would become a precedent setting instance of anti-Asian exclusion laws. (When my own Syrian great-grandparents, Christians fleeing Ottoman era oppression, arrived in Canada in 1908, their travel documents were stamped \u201cAsiatic.\u201d)A century later, the creeping criminalization of the people seeking to come to Canada continued when two shiploads (one in 2009 and another in 2010) of Tamils fleeing civil war in Sri Lanka were detained in Vancouver only to be incorrectly labeled \u201cterrorists.\u201dNow, faced with the Syrian tragedy, my nation has to decide between two different visions of Canada \u2013 one racist and exclusionary, the other compassionate and open to the world.", "tags": ["Refugees", "Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "Canada"], "title": "Canada tries to discourage refugees and the results are deadly | Hadani Ditmars"},{"date": "2015-09-10T23:37:06Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Amid a flurry of negative news stories and slipping poll figures, Canada\u2019s Conservative party has confirmed that it has enlisted the help of Lynton Crosby \u2013 the Australian political strategist who advised Britain\u2019s Conservative and Australia\u2019s Liberal parties \u2013 to help steer the party\u2019s struggling campaign for re-election. Related: Lynton Crosby: the man who really won the election for the Tories Campaign spokesman Kory Teneycke confirmed on Thursday that the Tories have been seeking advice from Crosby, the bare-knuckle campaign adviser credited with helping engineer David Cameron\u2019s absolute majority in the British general election last May.\u201cWe were fans of Lynton Crosby before many people knew who Lynton Crosby was,\u201d Teneycke told the Guardian. Teneycke said Crosby has given the party \u201cformal and informal advice\u201d over many years, adding that the Australian adviser met with the campaign team a couple of months ago and has been helped the party with analysis of research and polling. \u201cI\u2019m not going to comment on the specific nature of the relationship but it\u2019s a close one and an ongoing one and one that predates this campaign,\u201d he said.  Related: Lynton Crosby: can the \u2018Lizard of Oz\u2019 win the election for the Tories? Crosby, who has drawn comparisons to George W Bush\u2019s campaign chief Karl Rove, is known for bringing a sharp focus to campaign messaging. But he also comes with a reputation for an aggressive style and a playbook that includes negative campaigning and so-called \u201cwedge politics\u201d \u2013 a tactic using often controversial social issues to split voter opinion in their favour.The mayor of London, Boris Johnson, whose 2008 and 2012 wins Crosby helped orchestrate, once described him in an interview as \u201ca man who never lets an abusive thought form in his mind without immediately forming it into a text and sending it to the object of his wrath\u201d.Crosby was dubbed the \u201cWizard of Oz\u201d for delivering four successive Conservative election victories to the former Australian prime minister John Howard, although his political rivals have been less flattering: the former British politician Vince Cable once referred to him as \u201can Australian rottweiler\u201d.New polling figures suggest that Stephen Harper\u2019s party will need all the help it can get: a poll released earlier this week showed the Conservatives at third place behind the two main left-leaning opposition parties, the New Democrats and the Liberals. The Nanos survey has the New Democratic Party (NDP) at 32.7%, the Liberals at 30.8% and the Conservatives at 26.2%. A previous Nanos poll last month showed the Conservatives leading the race at 41%.The party has been buffeted by a weakening economy, and a string of controversies and blunders in recent weeks. The party is facing heated criticism over its handling of the Syrian refugee crisis, after it emerged that a Syrian boy whose body ashore in Turkey had family in Canada. On Thursday Harper suggested that if re-elected his party would work to speed up the processing of asylum claims. A senate spending and corruption scandal has also dogged the Conservative leader on the campaign trail and has embroiled some of his most trusted and senior staff.Canadians go to the polls 19 October. ", "tags": ["Canada", "Lynton Crosby", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada election 2015: Tories seek out 'Australian rottweiler' Lynton Crosby"},{"date": "2015-09-06T11:15:06Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The death of the Syrian Kurdi family on Wednesday \u2013 and the terrible image of three-year-old Alan washed up on a Turkish beach \u2013 has provoked international outrage at Canada\u2019s apparent indifference toward refugees. The high cost of asylum applications, government disengagement from the asylum process and biases in the granting of asylum means that many refugees never reach Canada\u2019s shores \u2013 and some die tragically as a result.In an interview with a National Post reporter this week, the children\u2019s aunt, Teema Kurdi, revealed that the family\u2019s application to join her in Vancouver had been rejected by Canadian Immigration authorities, thus prompting the fatal sea journey.It later emerged that in fact the family never formally applied for asylum, because of the serious bureaucratic hurdles and the expense involved, as well as her own modest resources, which had already been diverted into an unsuccessful attempt to help another brother seek asylum in Canada. Instead she had her local MP Fin Donnelly hand-deliver a letter seeking assistance to Immigration Minister Chris Alexander, which went unanswered.It is not just the cost of asylum applications that are being scrutinized as a result of the Kurdis\u2019 deaths, but also the state\u2019s lack of involvement in the asylum process and their insistence on cumbersome bureaucratic procedure, even in war zones. Private sponsorship programs are currently the asylum-seeking mode of choice for Canada\u2019s Conservative government, which refugee groups say has been disastrous for people fleeing conflict.On Wednesday, Immigration Minister Chris Alexander was repeatedly challenged by national CBC host Rosemary Barton on why the Conservatives were turning to the private sector to sponsor refugees rather than the more traditional government sponsorship route \u2013 a claim he continued to deny. He then went on to falsely claim that this was the program\u2019s first panel discussion on the topic. In an about face, the next day, he suspended his campaign to return to Ottawa and focus on investigations into the Kurdi case and even Prime Minister Stephen Harper included the tragedy in his campaign speeches \u2013 albeit as a pretext for more military engagement in the region.Canada\u2019s policies toward people fleeing persecution and conflict worsened significantly with the election of Harper. The Conservative government has only offered federal assistance to 457 Syrian refugees - out of a promised 10,000 - according to New Democratic Party foreign affairs critic Paul Dewar. According to the Canadian Association of Refugee Lawyers, new laws introduced in 2012 cut off healthcare for asylum seekers, criminalized them and imposed \u201cunrealistic time limits for refugee claimants to prove their claims\u201d that \u201cresult in grave injustices\u201d and undermine Canada\u2019s human rights record.According to the advocacy group No One is Illegal, as a result of new government restrictions, refugee claims decreased by 50% and the number of accepted refugees dropped by 30% between 2006 (when Stephen Harper was first elected) and 2012. A law introduced in 2014 denied social assistance to a majority of refugees and was condemned by Amnesty International and other human rights groups as being in violation of international law.The Conservative government also introduced policies that discriminate in favor of ethnic and religious minorities in the Middle East \u2013 favoring Christians over Muslims \u2013 which is also illegal under international charters, as well as draconian laws on immigration detention. According to No one is illegal, over the past decade the government has imprisoned an average of 11,000 migrants a year, including up to 807 children.The half-life of the detained migrant is largely unknown by Canadian society \u2013 that is, until a death in custody occurs and happens to receive media coverage.Since 2000 there have been over a dozen documented deaths, including that of Lucia Vega Jimenez, a Mexican woman, whose story is Kafkaesque. Caught by Vancouver transit police without a bus ticket one day in 2013, she was taken to a detention facility and threatened with deportation. After weeks of incarceration and with her deportation looming, she took her own life rather than return to Mexico where she had repeatedly said she was afraid for her safety because of a violent ex-boyfriend.Such stories are not unique to 21st century Canada. In fact, the \u201ctrue north strong and free\u201d has many shameful incidents in its past around migration issues. In 1939, a boatload of over 900 German Jewish refugees was turned away from Halifax harbor. When entry was refused, the boat turned back to Europe, where almost a third of the passengers would later die in concentration camps.Another shameful moment in Canada\u2019s history was the Komagata Maru incident. In 1914, a boatload of 376 subjects from the Punjab in then-British India were denied entry into the port of Vancouver and were kept languishing in difficult conditions for weeks. Eventually only 24 were allowed to disembark in what would become a precedent setting instance of anti-Asian exclusion laws. (When my own Syrian great-grandparents, Christians fleeing Ottoman era oppression, arrived in Canada in 1908, their travel documents were stamped \u201cAsiatic.\u201d)A century later, the creeping criminalization of the people seeking to come to Canada continued when two shiploads (one in 2009 and another in 2010) of Tamils fleeing civil war in Sri Lanka were detained in Vancouver only to be incorrectly labeled \u201cterrorists.\u201dNow, faced with the Syrian tragedy, my nation has to decide between two different visions of Canada \u2013 one racist and exclusionary, the other compassionate and open to the world.", "tags": ["Refugees", "Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "Canada"], "title": "Canada tries to discourage refugees and the results are deadly | Hadani Ditmars"},{"date": "2015-08-28T22:27:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "An environmental scientist working for a Canadian government agency has been suspended and will be investigated for recording a protest song about the prime minister, Stephen Harper, according to union representatives.The song is called Harperman and was written by Tony Turner, who worked at Environment Canada and is, in his spare time, \u201ca mainstay on the Ottawa folk music scene\u201d, according to a biography on his website.The song, which is recorded with a backing choir and a double bass, with Turner himself on the guitar, contains lyrics like \u201cno respect for environment / Harperman, it\u2019s time for you to go\u201d, and \u201cno more cons, cons, cons / we want you gone, gone gone\u201d.Turner\u2019s union representatives told the CBC that Turner was being accused of having \u201cviolated the departmental code of values and ethics in that the writing and performing of this song somehow impeded his ability to impartially study migratory birds\u201d.\u201cWe will stand up for its members who face the prospect of being disciplined for exercising their democratic rights as citizens. The supreme court of Canada has confirmed that public service workers, like all Canadian citizens, benefit from freedom of expression,\u201d Debi Daviau, the president of the Professional Institute of the Public Service of Canada (PIPSC), the union which represents Turner, told the Ottawa Citizen.A Facebook page calling for a nationwide singalong of the song for 17 September was set up after the song was released by a friend of Turner.\u201cCan\u2019t we make jokes or say anything? Are we all muzzled? This is the politics of fear. I am an activist and singer but mostly I am a citizen and I care about democracy and freedom of speech,\u201d Diane McIntyre, who sang a solo in the song, told the Ottawa Citizen.Environment Canada could not be reached by the Guardian for comment.Harper is locked in a re-election campaign. The election is set for 19 October.", "tags": ["Canada", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Folk music", "Music", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Canada government suspends scientist for folk song about prime minister"},{"date": "2015-09-10T23:37:06Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Amid a flurry of negative news stories and slipping poll figures, Canada\u2019s Conservative party has confirmed that it has enlisted the help of Lynton Crosby \u2013 the Australian political strategist who advised Britain\u2019s Conservative and Australia\u2019s Liberal parties \u2013 to help steer the party\u2019s struggling campaign for re-election. Related: Lynton Crosby: the man who really won the election for the Tories Campaign spokesman Kory Teneycke confirmed on Thursday that the Tories have been seeking advice from Crosby, the bare-knuckle campaign adviser credited with helping engineer David Cameron\u2019s absolute majority in the British general election last May.\u201cWe were fans of Lynton Crosby before many people knew who Lynton Crosby was,\u201d Teneycke told the Guardian. Teneycke said Crosby has given the party \u201cformal and informal advice\u201d over many years, adding that the Australian adviser met with the campaign team a couple of months ago and has been helped the party with analysis of research and polling. \u201cI\u2019m not going to comment on the specific nature of the relationship but it\u2019s a close one and an ongoing one and one that predates this campaign,\u201d he said.  Related: Lynton Crosby: can the \u2018Lizard of Oz\u2019 win the election for the Tories? Crosby, who has drawn comparisons to George W Bush\u2019s campaign chief Karl Rove, is known for bringing a sharp focus to campaign messaging. But he also comes with a reputation for an aggressive style and a playbook that includes negative campaigning and so-called \u201cwedge politics\u201d \u2013 a tactic using often controversial social issues to split voter opinion in their favour.The mayor of London, Boris Johnson, whose 2008 and 2012 wins Crosby helped orchestrate, once described him in an interview as \u201ca man who never lets an abusive thought form in his mind without immediately forming it into a text and sending it to the object of his wrath\u201d.Crosby was dubbed the \u201cWizard of Oz\u201d for delivering four successive Conservative election victories to the former Australian prime minister John Howard, although his political rivals have been less flattering: the former British politician Vince Cable once referred to him as \u201can Australian rottweiler\u201d.New polling figures suggest that Stephen Harper\u2019s party will need all the help it can get: a poll released earlier this week showed the Conservatives at third place behind the two main left-leaning opposition parties, the New Democrats and the Liberals. The Nanos survey has the New Democratic Party (NDP) at 32.7%, the Liberals at 30.8% and the Conservatives at 26.2%. A previous Nanos poll last month showed the Conservatives leading the race at 41%.The party has been buffeted by a weakening economy, and a string of controversies and blunders in recent weeks. The party is facing heated criticism over its handling of the Syrian refugee crisis, after it emerged that a Syrian boy whose body ashore in Turkey had family in Canada. On Thursday Harper suggested that if re-elected his party would work to speed up the processing of asylum claims. A senate spending and corruption scandal has also dogged the Conservative leader on the campaign trail and has embroiled some of his most trusted and senior staff.Canadians go to the polls 19 October. ", "tags": ["Canada", "Lynton Crosby", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada election 2015: Tories seek out 'Australian rottweiler' Lynton Crosby"},{"date": "2015-09-06T11:15:06Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The death of the Syrian Kurdi family on Wednesday \u2013 and the terrible image of three-year-old Alan washed up on a Turkish beach \u2013 has provoked international outrage at Canada\u2019s apparent indifference toward refugees. The high cost of asylum applications, government disengagement from the asylum process and biases in the granting of asylum means that many refugees never reach Canada\u2019s shores \u2013 and some die tragically as a result.In an interview with a National Post reporter this week, the children\u2019s aunt, Teema Kurdi, revealed that the family\u2019s application to join her in Vancouver had been rejected by Canadian Immigration authorities, thus prompting the fatal sea journey.It later emerged that in fact the family never formally applied for asylum, because of the serious bureaucratic hurdles and the expense involved, as well as her own modest resources, which had already been diverted into an unsuccessful attempt to help another brother seek asylum in Canada. Instead she had her local MP Fin Donnelly hand-deliver a letter seeking assistance to Immigration Minister Chris Alexander, which went unanswered.It is not just the cost of asylum applications that are being scrutinized as a result of the Kurdis\u2019 deaths, but also the state\u2019s lack of involvement in the asylum process and their insistence on cumbersome bureaucratic procedure, even in war zones. Private sponsorship programs are currently the asylum-seeking mode of choice for Canada\u2019s Conservative government, which refugee groups say has been disastrous for people fleeing conflict.On Wednesday, Immigration Minister Chris Alexander was repeatedly challenged by national CBC host Rosemary Barton on why the Conservatives were turning to the private sector to sponsor refugees rather than the more traditional government sponsorship route \u2013 a claim he continued to deny. He then went on to falsely claim that this was the program\u2019s first panel discussion on the topic. In an about face, the next day, he suspended his campaign to return to Ottawa and focus on investigations into the Kurdi case and even Prime Minister Stephen Harper included the tragedy in his campaign speeches \u2013 albeit as a pretext for more military engagement in the region.Canada\u2019s policies toward people fleeing persecution and conflict worsened significantly with the election of Harper. The Conservative government has only offered federal assistance to 457 Syrian refugees - out of a promised 10,000 - according to New Democratic Party foreign affairs critic Paul Dewar. According to the Canadian Association of Refugee Lawyers, new laws introduced in 2012 cut off healthcare for asylum seekers, criminalized them and imposed \u201cunrealistic time limits for refugee claimants to prove their claims\u201d that \u201cresult in grave injustices\u201d and undermine Canada\u2019s human rights record.According to the advocacy group No One is Illegal, as a result of new government restrictions, refugee claims decreased by 50% and the number of accepted refugees dropped by 30% between 2006 (when Stephen Harper was first elected) and 2012. A law introduced in 2014 denied social assistance to a majority of refugees and was condemned by Amnesty International and other human rights groups as being in violation of international law.The Conservative government also introduced policies that discriminate in favor of ethnic and religious minorities in the Middle East \u2013 favoring Christians over Muslims \u2013 which is also illegal under international charters, as well as draconian laws on immigration detention. According to No one is illegal, over the past decade the government has imprisoned an average of 11,000 migrants a year, including up to 807 children.The half-life of the detained migrant is largely unknown by Canadian society \u2013 that is, until a death in custody occurs and happens to receive media coverage.Since 2000 there have been over a dozen documented deaths, including that of Lucia Vega Jimenez, a Mexican woman, whose story is Kafkaesque. Caught by Vancouver transit police without a bus ticket one day in 2013, she was taken to a detention facility and threatened with deportation. After weeks of incarceration and with her deportation looming, she took her own life rather than return to Mexico where she had repeatedly said she was afraid for her safety because of a violent ex-boyfriend.Such stories are not unique to 21st century Canada. In fact, the \u201ctrue north strong and free\u201d has many shameful incidents in its past around migration issues. In 1939, a boatload of over 900 German Jewish refugees was turned away from Halifax harbor. When entry was refused, the boat turned back to Europe, where almost a third of the passengers would later die in concentration camps.Another shameful moment in Canada\u2019s history was the Komagata Maru incident. In 1914, a boatload of 376 subjects from the Punjab in then-British India were denied entry into the port of Vancouver and were kept languishing in difficult conditions for weeks. Eventually only 24 were allowed to disembark in what would become a precedent setting instance of anti-Asian exclusion laws. (When my own Syrian great-grandparents, Christians fleeing Ottoman era oppression, arrived in Canada in 1908, their travel documents were stamped \u201cAsiatic.\u201d)A century later, the creeping criminalization of the people seeking to come to Canada continued when two shiploads (one in 2009 and another in 2010) of Tamils fleeing civil war in Sri Lanka were detained in Vancouver only to be incorrectly labeled \u201cterrorists.\u201dNow, faced with the Syrian tragedy, my nation has to decide between two different visions of Canada \u2013 one racist and exclusionary, the other compassionate and open to the world.", "tags": ["Refugees", "Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "Canada"], "title": "Canada tries to discourage refugees and the results are deadly | Hadani Ditmars"},{"date": "2015-08-28T22:27:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "An environmental scientist working for a Canadian government agency has been suspended and will be investigated for recording a protest song about the prime minister, Stephen Harper, according to union representatives.The song is called Harperman and was written by Tony Turner, who worked at Environment Canada and is, in his spare time, \u201ca mainstay on the Ottawa folk music scene\u201d, according to a biography on his website.The song, which is recorded with a backing choir and a double bass, with Turner himself on the guitar, contains lyrics like \u201cno respect for environment / Harperman, it\u2019s time for you to go\u201d, and \u201cno more cons, cons, cons / we want you gone, gone gone\u201d.Turner\u2019s union representatives told the CBC that Turner was being accused of having \u201cviolated the departmental code of values and ethics in that the writing and performing of this song somehow impeded his ability to impartially study migratory birds\u201d.\u201cWe will stand up for its members who face the prospect of being disciplined for exercising their democratic rights as citizens. The supreme court of Canada has confirmed that public service workers, like all Canadian citizens, benefit from freedom of expression,\u201d Debi Daviau, the president of the Professional Institute of the Public Service of Canada (PIPSC), the union which represents Turner, told the Ottawa Citizen.A Facebook page calling for a nationwide singalong of the song for 17 September was set up after the song was released by a friend of Turner.\u201cCan\u2019t we make jokes or say anything? Are we all muzzled? This is the politics of fear. I am an activist and singer but mostly I am a citizen and I care about democracy and freedom of speech,\u201d Diane McIntyre, who sang a solo in the song, told the Ottawa Citizen.Environment Canada could not be reached by the Guardian for comment.Harper is locked in a re-election campaign. The election is set for 19 October.", "tags": ["Canada", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Folk music", "Music", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Canada government suspends scientist for folk song about prime minister"},{"date": "2015-08-23T14:26:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "She is a prize-winning author who has conjured vivid dystopian futures, but on Friday Margaret Atwood found herself at the centre of a somewhat mundane censorship debate in the present. Related: Canada election 2015: a guide to the parties, polls and electoral system The acclaimed author penned a satirical column lambasting Canada\u2019s conservative prime minister Stephen Harper\u2019s hair, which has become an unusual talking point in the lead up to the general election in October. Hours after publication on the National Post website, the piece was removed. Senior newspaper staff later said \u201cthe necessary fact checking had not been completed\u201d.\u201cUm, did I just get censored? For my flighty little caper on Hair?\u201d Atwood tweeted after #Hairgate began trending on Twitter.Throughout the election campaign, the Canadian Conservative party has attacked Liberal leader Justin Trudeau as inexperienced and lacking in policy focus. It has also mocked him simply for having \u201cnice hair\u201d. Trudeau has hit back through advertising, arguing Harper is struggling to talk about anything else.Atwood\u2019s piece argued the entire debate had trivialised the election. \u201cHair, an election issue? Really?\u201d she wrote, before going on to poke fun at Harper. Related: Canada's Liberals face bleak future \u2013 is it too late for Justin Trudeau to save them? \u201cOf the three national male leaders, which one travels with a personal grooming assistant \u2013 lavishly paid for in whole or in part by you, gentle taxpayer \u2013 so that none of his hairs will ever be out of place \u2026 Hint: Initials are SH.\u201d The column was eventually republished by the National Post, with three sentences, which made reference to Harper\u2019s political donations and a recent travel expenses scandal, removed.The edits appeared to outrage the author even more \u2013 Atwood said the piece had been submitted nine days before it was published.\u201cWhich of my facts were Wrong? What are the alternate facts, presumably Right? Cite sources please,\u201d she tweeted at the National Post on Saturday, after thanking readers for the flurry of puns mocking the episode, which had erupted on Twitter throughout the day.", "tags": ["Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Americas", "World news", "Margaret Atwood", "Books", "Censorship", "Culture", "Men's hair", "Fashion"], "title": "Hair today, gone tomorrow: Margaret Atwood in Canada censorship row"},{"date": "2015-09-10T23:37:06Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Amid a flurry of negative news stories and slipping poll figures, Canada\u2019s Conservative party has confirmed that it has enlisted the help of Lynton Crosby \u2013 the Australian political strategist who advised Britain\u2019s Conservative and Australia\u2019s Liberal parties \u2013 to help steer the party\u2019s struggling campaign for re-election. Related: Lynton Crosby: the man who really won the election for the Tories Campaign spokesman Kory Teneycke confirmed on Thursday that the Tories have been seeking advice from Crosby, the bare-knuckle campaign adviser credited with helping engineer David Cameron\u2019s absolute majority in the British general election last May.\u201cWe were fans of Lynton Crosby before many people knew who Lynton Crosby was,\u201d Teneycke told the Guardian. Teneycke said Crosby has given the party \u201cformal and informal advice\u201d over many years, adding that the Australian adviser met with the campaign team a couple of months ago and has been helped the party with analysis of research and polling. \u201cI\u2019m not going to comment on the specific nature of the relationship but it\u2019s a close one and an ongoing one and one that predates this campaign,\u201d he said.  Related: Lynton Crosby: can the \u2018Lizard of Oz\u2019 win the election for the Tories? Crosby, who has drawn comparisons to George W Bush\u2019s campaign chief Karl Rove, is known for bringing a sharp focus to campaign messaging. But he also comes with a reputation for an aggressive style and a playbook that includes negative campaigning and so-called \u201cwedge politics\u201d \u2013 a tactic using often controversial social issues to split voter opinion in their favour.The mayor of London, Boris Johnson, whose 2008 and 2012 wins Crosby helped orchestrate, once described him in an interview as \u201ca man who never lets an abusive thought form in his mind without immediately forming it into a text and sending it to the object of his wrath\u201d.Crosby was dubbed the \u201cWizard of Oz\u201d for delivering four successive Conservative election victories to the former Australian prime minister John Howard, although his political rivals have been less flattering: the former British politician Vince Cable once referred to him as \u201can Australian rottweiler\u201d.New polling figures suggest that Stephen Harper\u2019s party will need all the help it can get: a poll released earlier this week showed the Conservatives at third place behind the two main left-leaning opposition parties, the New Democrats and the Liberals. The Nanos survey has the New Democratic Party (NDP) at 32.7%, the Liberals at 30.8% and the Conservatives at 26.2%. A previous Nanos poll last month showed the Conservatives leading the race at 41%.The party has been buffeted by a weakening economy, and a string of controversies and blunders in recent weeks. The party is facing heated criticism over its handling of the Syrian refugee crisis, after it emerged that a Syrian boy whose body ashore in Turkey had family in Canada. On Thursday Harper suggested that if re-elected his party would work to speed up the processing of asylum claims. A senate spending and corruption scandal has also dogged the Conservative leader on the campaign trail and has embroiled some of his most trusted and senior staff.Canadians go to the polls 19 October. ", "tags": ["Canada", "Lynton Crosby", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada election 2015: Tories seek out 'Australian rottweiler' Lynton Crosby"},{"date": "2015-09-06T11:15:06Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The death of the Syrian Kurdi family on Wednesday \u2013 and the terrible image of three-year-old Alan washed up on a Turkish beach \u2013 has provoked international outrage at Canada\u2019s apparent indifference toward refugees. The high cost of asylum applications, government disengagement from the asylum process and biases in the granting of asylum means that many refugees never reach Canada\u2019s shores \u2013 and some die tragically as a result.In an interview with a National Post reporter this week, the children\u2019s aunt, Teema Kurdi, revealed that the family\u2019s application to join her in Vancouver had been rejected by Canadian Immigration authorities, thus prompting the fatal sea journey.It later emerged that in fact the family never formally applied for asylum, because of the serious bureaucratic hurdles and the expense involved, as well as her own modest resources, which had already been diverted into an unsuccessful attempt to help another brother seek asylum in Canada. Instead she had her local MP Fin Donnelly hand-deliver a letter seeking assistance to Immigration Minister Chris Alexander, which went unanswered.It is not just the cost of asylum applications that are being scrutinized as a result of the Kurdis\u2019 deaths, but also the state\u2019s lack of involvement in the asylum process and their insistence on cumbersome bureaucratic procedure, even in war zones. Private sponsorship programs are currently the asylum-seeking mode of choice for Canada\u2019s Conservative government, which refugee groups say has been disastrous for people fleeing conflict.On Wednesday, Immigration Minister Chris Alexander was repeatedly challenged by national CBC host Rosemary Barton on why the Conservatives were turning to the private sector to sponsor refugees rather than the more traditional government sponsorship route \u2013 a claim he continued to deny. He then went on to falsely claim that this was the program\u2019s first panel discussion on the topic. In an about face, the next day, he suspended his campaign to return to Ottawa and focus on investigations into the Kurdi case and even Prime Minister Stephen Harper included the tragedy in his campaign speeches \u2013 albeit as a pretext for more military engagement in the region.Canada\u2019s policies toward people fleeing persecution and conflict worsened significantly with the election of Harper. The Conservative government has only offered federal assistance to 457 Syrian refugees - out of a promised 10,000 - according to New Democratic Party foreign affairs critic Paul Dewar. According to the Canadian Association of Refugee Lawyers, new laws introduced in 2012 cut off healthcare for asylum seekers, criminalized them and imposed \u201cunrealistic time limits for refugee claimants to prove their claims\u201d that \u201cresult in grave injustices\u201d and undermine Canada\u2019s human rights record.According to the advocacy group No One is Illegal, as a result of new government restrictions, refugee claims decreased by 50% and the number of accepted refugees dropped by 30% between 2006 (when Stephen Harper was first elected) and 2012. A law introduced in 2014 denied social assistance to a majority of refugees and was condemned by Amnesty International and other human rights groups as being in violation of international law.The Conservative government also introduced policies that discriminate in favor of ethnic and religious minorities in the Middle East \u2013 favoring Christians over Muslims \u2013 which is also illegal under international charters, as well as draconian laws on immigration detention. According to No one is illegal, over the past decade the government has imprisoned an average of 11,000 migrants a year, including up to 807 children.The half-life of the detained migrant is largely unknown by Canadian society \u2013 that is, until a death in custody occurs and happens to receive media coverage.Since 2000 there have been over a dozen documented deaths, including that of Lucia Vega Jimenez, a Mexican woman, whose story is Kafkaesque. Caught by Vancouver transit police without a bus ticket one day in 2013, she was taken to a detention facility and threatened with deportation. After weeks of incarceration and with her deportation looming, she took her own life rather than return to Mexico where she had repeatedly said she was afraid for her safety because of a violent ex-boyfriend.Such stories are not unique to 21st century Canada. In fact, the \u201ctrue north strong and free\u201d has many shameful incidents in its past around migration issues. In 1939, a boatload of over 900 German Jewish refugees was turned away from Halifax harbor. When entry was refused, the boat turned back to Europe, where almost a third of the passengers would later die in concentration camps.Another shameful moment in Canada\u2019s history was the Komagata Maru incident. In 1914, a boatload of 376 subjects from the Punjab in then-British India were denied entry into the port of Vancouver and were kept languishing in difficult conditions for weeks. Eventually only 24 were allowed to disembark in what would become a precedent setting instance of anti-Asian exclusion laws. (When my own Syrian great-grandparents, Christians fleeing Ottoman era oppression, arrived in Canada in 1908, their travel documents were stamped \u201cAsiatic.\u201d)A century later, the creeping criminalization of the people seeking to come to Canada continued when two shiploads (one in 2009 and another in 2010) of Tamils fleeing civil war in Sri Lanka were detained in Vancouver only to be incorrectly labeled \u201cterrorists.\u201dNow, faced with the Syrian tragedy, my nation has to decide between two different visions of Canada \u2013 one racist and exclusionary, the other compassionate and open to the world.", "tags": ["Refugees", "Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "Canada"], "title": "Canada tries to discourage refugees and the results are deadly | Hadani Ditmars"},{"date": "2015-08-28T22:27:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "An environmental scientist working for a Canadian government agency has been suspended and will be investigated for recording a protest song about the prime minister, Stephen Harper, according to union representatives.The song is called Harperman and was written by Tony Turner, who worked at Environment Canada and is, in his spare time, \u201ca mainstay on the Ottawa folk music scene\u201d, according to a biography on his website.The song, which is recorded with a backing choir and a double bass, with Turner himself on the guitar, contains lyrics like \u201cno respect for environment / Harperman, it\u2019s time for you to go\u201d, and \u201cno more cons, cons, cons / we want you gone, gone gone\u201d.Turner\u2019s union representatives told the CBC that Turner was being accused of having \u201cviolated the departmental code of values and ethics in that the writing and performing of this song somehow impeded his ability to impartially study migratory birds\u201d.\u201cWe will stand up for its members who face the prospect of being disciplined for exercising their democratic rights as citizens. The supreme court of Canada has confirmed that public service workers, like all Canadian citizens, benefit from freedom of expression,\u201d Debi Daviau, the president of the Professional Institute of the Public Service of Canada (PIPSC), the union which represents Turner, told the Ottawa Citizen.A Facebook page calling for a nationwide singalong of the song for 17 September was set up after the song was released by a friend of Turner.\u201cCan\u2019t we make jokes or say anything? Are we all muzzled? This is the politics of fear. I am an activist and singer but mostly I am a citizen and I care about democracy and freedom of speech,\u201d Diane McIntyre, who sang a solo in the song, told the Ottawa Citizen.Environment Canada could not be reached by the Guardian for comment.Harper is locked in a re-election campaign. The election is set for 19 October.", "tags": ["Canada", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Folk music", "Music", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Canada government suspends scientist for folk song about prime minister"},{"date": "2015-08-23T14:26:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "She is a prize-winning author who has conjured vivid dystopian futures, but on Friday Margaret Atwood found herself at the centre of a somewhat mundane censorship debate in the present. Related: Canada election 2015: a guide to the parties, polls and electoral system The acclaimed author penned a satirical column lambasting Canada\u2019s conservative prime minister Stephen Harper\u2019s hair, which has become an unusual talking point in the lead up to the general election in October. Hours after publication on the National Post website, the piece was removed. Senior newspaper staff later said \u201cthe necessary fact checking had not been completed\u201d.\u201cUm, did I just get censored? For my flighty little caper on Hair?\u201d Atwood tweeted after #Hairgate began trending on Twitter.Throughout the election campaign, the Canadian Conservative party has attacked Liberal leader Justin Trudeau as inexperienced and lacking in policy focus. It has also mocked him simply for having \u201cnice hair\u201d. Trudeau has hit back through advertising, arguing Harper is struggling to talk about anything else.Atwood\u2019s piece argued the entire debate had trivialised the election. \u201cHair, an election issue? Really?\u201d she wrote, before going on to poke fun at Harper. Related: Canada's Liberals face bleak future \u2013 is it too late for Justin Trudeau to save them? \u201cOf the three national male leaders, which one travels with a personal grooming assistant \u2013 lavishly paid for in whole or in part by you, gentle taxpayer \u2013 so that none of his hairs will ever be out of place \u2026 Hint: Initials are SH.\u201d The column was eventually republished by the National Post, with three sentences, which made reference to Harper\u2019s political donations and a recent travel expenses scandal, removed.The edits appeared to outrage the author even more \u2013 Atwood said the piece had been submitted nine days before it was published.\u201cWhich of my facts were Wrong? What are the alternate facts, presumably Right? Cite sources please,\u201d she tweeted at the National Post on Saturday, after thanking readers for the flurry of puns mocking the episode, which had erupted on Twitter throughout the day.", "tags": ["Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Americas", "World news", "Margaret Atwood", "Books", "Censorship", "Culture", "Men's hair", "Fashion"], "title": "Hair today, gone tomorrow: Margaret Atwood in Canada censorship row"},{"date": "2015-07-01T14:51:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "", "tags": ["Canada", "Canada holidays", "Americas", "Travel", "World news"], "title": "Canada Day quiz: which of these famous people is Canadian?"},{"date": "2015-09-10T23:37:06Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Amid a flurry of negative news stories and slipping poll figures, Canada\u2019s Conservative party has confirmed that it has enlisted the help of Lynton Crosby \u2013 the Australian political strategist who advised Britain\u2019s Conservative and Australia\u2019s Liberal parties \u2013 to help steer the party\u2019s struggling campaign for re-election. Related: Lynton Crosby: the man who really won the election for the Tories Campaign spokesman Kory Teneycke confirmed on Thursday that the Tories have been seeking advice from Crosby, the bare-knuckle campaign adviser credited with helping engineer David Cameron\u2019s absolute majority in the British general election last May.\u201cWe were fans of Lynton Crosby before many people knew who Lynton Crosby was,\u201d Teneycke told the Guardian. Teneycke said Crosby has given the party \u201cformal and informal advice\u201d over many years, adding that the Australian adviser met with the campaign team a couple of months ago and has been helped the party with analysis of research and polling. \u201cI\u2019m not going to comment on the specific nature of the relationship but it\u2019s a close one and an ongoing one and one that predates this campaign,\u201d he said.  Related: Lynton Crosby: can the \u2018Lizard of Oz\u2019 win the election for the Tories? Crosby, who has drawn comparisons to George W Bush\u2019s campaign chief Karl Rove, is known for bringing a sharp focus to campaign messaging. But he also comes with a reputation for an aggressive style and a playbook that includes negative campaigning and so-called \u201cwedge politics\u201d \u2013 a tactic using often controversial social issues to split voter opinion in their favour.The mayor of London, Boris Johnson, whose 2008 and 2012 wins Crosby helped orchestrate, once described him in an interview as \u201ca man who never lets an abusive thought form in his mind without immediately forming it into a text and sending it to the object of his wrath\u201d.Crosby was dubbed the \u201cWizard of Oz\u201d for delivering four successive Conservative election victories to the former Australian prime minister John Howard, although his political rivals have been less flattering: the former British politician Vince Cable once referred to him as \u201can Australian rottweiler\u201d.New polling figures suggest that Stephen Harper\u2019s party will need all the help it can get: a poll released earlier this week showed the Conservatives at third place behind the two main left-leaning opposition parties, the New Democrats and the Liberals. The Nanos survey has the New Democratic Party (NDP) at 32.7%, the Liberals at 30.8% and the Conservatives at 26.2%. A previous Nanos poll last month showed the Conservatives leading the race at 41%.The party has been buffeted by a weakening economy, and a string of controversies and blunders in recent weeks. The party is facing heated criticism over its handling of the Syrian refugee crisis, after it emerged that a Syrian boy whose body ashore in Turkey had family in Canada. On Thursday Harper suggested that if re-elected his party would work to speed up the processing of asylum claims. A senate spending and corruption scandal has also dogged the Conservative leader on the campaign trail and has embroiled some of his most trusted and senior staff.Canadians go to the polls 19 October. ", "tags": ["Canada", "Lynton Crosby", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada election 2015: Tories seek out 'Australian rottweiler' Lynton Crosby"},{"date": "2015-09-06T11:15:06Z", "country": "canada", "content": "The death of the Syrian Kurdi family on Wednesday \u2013 and the terrible image of three-year-old Alan washed up on a Turkish beach \u2013 has provoked international outrage at Canada\u2019s apparent indifference toward refugees. The high cost of asylum applications, government disengagement from the asylum process and biases in the granting of asylum means that many refugees never reach Canada\u2019s shores \u2013 and some die tragically as a result.In an interview with a National Post reporter this week, the children\u2019s aunt, Teema Kurdi, revealed that the family\u2019s application to join her in Vancouver had been rejected by Canadian Immigration authorities, thus prompting the fatal sea journey.It later emerged that in fact the family never formally applied for asylum, because of the serious bureaucratic hurdles and the expense involved, as well as her own modest resources, which had already been diverted into an unsuccessful attempt to help another brother seek asylum in Canada. Instead she had her local MP Fin Donnelly hand-deliver a letter seeking assistance to Immigration Minister Chris Alexander, which went unanswered.It is not just the cost of asylum applications that are being scrutinized as a result of the Kurdis\u2019 deaths, but also the state\u2019s lack of involvement in the asylum process and their insistence on cumbersome bureaucratic procedure, even in war zones. Private sponsorship programs are currently the asylum-seeking mode of choice for Canada\u2019s Conservative government, which refugee groups say has been disastrous for people fleeing conflict.On Wednesday, Immigration Minister Chris Alexander was repeatedly challenged by national CBC host Rosemary Barton on why the Conservatives were turning to the private sector to sponsor refugees rather than the more traditional government sponsorship route \u2013 a claim he continued to deny. He then went on to falsely claim that this was the program\u2019s first panel discussion on the topic. In an about face, the next day, he suspended his campaign to return to Ottawa and focus on investigations into the Kurdi case and even Prime Minister Stephen Harper included the tragedy in his campaign speeches \u2013 albeit as a pretext for more military engagement in the region.Canada\u2019s policies toward people fleeing persecution and conflict worsened significantly with the election of Harper. The Conservative government has only offered federal assistance to 457 Syrian refugees - out of a promised 10,000 - according to New Democratic Party foreign affairs critic Paul Dewar. According to the Canadian Association of Refugee Lawyers, new laws introduced in 2012 cut off healthcare for asylum seekers, criminalized them and imposed \u201cunrealistic time limits for refugee claimants to prove their claims\u201d that \u201cresult in grave injustices\u201d and undermine Canada\u2019s human rights record.According to the advocacy group No One is Illegal, as a result of new government restrictions, refugee claims decreased by 50% and the number of accepted refugees dropped by 30% between 2006 (when Stephen Harper was first elected) and 2012. A law introduced in 2014 denied social assistance to a majority of refugees and was condemned by Amnesty International and other human rights groups as being in violation of international law.The Conservative government also introduced policies that discriminate in favor of ethnic and religious minorities in the Middle East \u2013 favoring Christians over Muslims \u2013 which is also illegal under international charters, as well as draconian laws on immigration detention. According to No one is illegal, over the past decade the government has imprisoned an average of 11,000 migrants a year, including up to 807 children.The half-life of the detained migrant is largely unknown by Canadian society \u2013 that is, until a death in custody occurs and happens to receive media coverage.Since 2000 there have been over a dozen documented deaths, including that of Lucia Vega Jimenez, a Mexican woman, whose story is Kafkaesque. Caught by Vancouver transit police without a bus ticket one day in 2013, she was taken to a detention facility and threatened with deportation. After weeks of incarceration and with her deportation looming, she took her own life rather than return to Mexico where she had repeatedly said she was afraid for her safety because of a violent ex-boyfriend.Such stories are not unique to 21st century Canada. In fact, the \u201ctrue north strong and free\u201d has many shameful incidents in its past around migration issues. In 1939, a boatload of over 900 German Jewish refugees was turned away from Halifax harbor. When entry was refused, the boat turned back to Europe, where almost a third of the passengers would later die in concentration camps.Another shameful moment in Canada\u2019s history was the Komagata Maru incident. In 1914, a boatload of 376 subjects from the Punjab in then-British India were denied entry into the port of Vancouver and were kept languishing in difficult conditions for weeks. Eventually only 24 were allowed to disembark in what would become a precedent setting instance of anti-Asian exclusion laws. (When my own Syrian great-grandparents, Christians fleeing Ottoman era oppression, arrived in Canada in 1908, their travel documents were stamped \u201cAsiatic.\u201d)A century later, the creeping criminalization of the people seeking to come to Canada continued when two shiploads (one in 2009 and another in 2010) of Tamils fleeing civil war in Sri Lanka were detained in Vancouver only to be incorrectly labeled \u201cterrorists.\u201dNow, faced with the Syrian tragedy, my nation has to decide between two different visions of Canada \u2013 one racist and exclusionary, the other compassionate and open to the world.", "tags": ["Refugees", "Syria", "Middle East and North Africa", "Canada"], "title": "Canada tries to discourage refugees and the results are deadly | Hadani Ditmars"},{"date": "2015-08-28T22:27:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "An environmental scientist working for a Canadian government agency has been suspended and will be investigated for recording a protest song about the prime minister, Stephen Harper, according to union representatives.The song is called Harperman and was written by Tony Turner, who worked at Environment Canada and is, in his spare time, \u201ca mainstay on the Ottawa folk music scene\u201d, according to a biography on his website.The song, which is recorded with a backing choir and a double bass, with Turner himself on the guitar, contains lyrics like \u201cno respect for environment / Harperman, it\u2019s time for you to go\u201d, and \u201cno more cons, cons, cons / we want you gone, gone gone\u201d.Turner\u2019s union representatives told the CBC that Turner was being accused of having \u201cviolated the departmental code of values and ethics in that the writing and performing of this song somehow impeded his ability to impartially study migratory birds\u201d.\u201cWe will stand up for its members who face the prospect of being disciplined for exercising their democratic rights as citizens. The supreme court of Canada has confirmed that public service workers, like all Canadian citizens, benefit from freedom of expression,\u201d Debi Daviau, the president of the Professional Institute of the Public Service of Canada (PIPSC), the union which represents Turner, told the Ottawa Citizen.A Facebook page calling for a nationwide singalong of the song for 17 September was set up after the song was released by a friend of Turner.\u201cCan\u2019t we make jokes or say anything? Are we all muzzled? This is the politics of fear. I am an activist and singer but mostly I am a citizen and I care about democracy and freedom of speech,\u201d Diane McIntyre, who sang a solo in the song, told the Ottawa Citizen.Environment Canada could not be reached by the Guardian for comment.Harper is locked in a re-election campaign. The election is set for 19 October.", "tags": ["Canada", "Stephen Harper", "World news", "Folk music", "Music", "Environment", "Americas"], "title": "Canada government suspends scientist for folk song about prime minister"},{"date": "2015-08-23T14:26:10Z", "country": "canada", "content": "She is a prize-winning author who has conjured vivid dystopian futures, but on Friday Margaret Atwood found herself at the centre of a somewhat mundane censorship debate in the present. Related: Canada election 2015: a guide to the parties, polls and electoral system The acclaimed author penned a satirical column lambasting Canada\u2019s conservative prime minister Stephen Harper\u2019s hair, which has become an unusual talking point in the lead up to the general election in October. Hours after publication on the National Post website, the piece was removed. Senior newspaper staff later said \u201cthe necessary fact checking had not been completed\u201d.\u201cUm, did I just get censored? For my flighty little caper on Hair?\u201d Atwood tweeted after #Hairgate began trending on Twitter.Throughout the election campaign, the Canadian Conservative party has attacked Liberal leader Justin Trudeau as inexperienced and lacking in policy focus. It has also mocked him simply for having \u201cnice hair\u201d. Trudeau has hit back through advertising, arguing Harper is struggling to talk about anything else.Atwood\u2019s piece argued the entire debate had trivialised the election. \u201cHair, an election issue? Really?\u201d she wrote, before going on to poke fun at Harper. Related: Canada's Liberals face bleak future \u2013 is it too late for Justin Trudeau to save them? \u201cOf the three national male leaders, which one travels with a personal grooming assistant \u2013 lavishly paid for in whole or in part by you, gentle taxpayer \u2013 so that none of his hairs will ever be out of place \u2026 Hint: Initials are SH.\u201d The column was eventually republished by the National Post, with three sentences, which made reference to Harper\u2019s political donations and a recent travel expenses scandal, removed.The edits appeared to outrage the author even more \u2013 Atwood said the piece had been submitted nine days before it was published.\u201cWhich of my facts were Wrong? What are the alternate facts, presumably Right? Cite sources please,\u201d she tweeted at the National Post on Saturday, after thanking readers for the flurry of puns mocking the episode, which had erupted on Twitter throughout the day.", "tags": ["Canada", "Stephen Harper", "Americas", "World news", "Margaret Atwood", "Books", "Censorship", "Culture", "Men's hair", "Fashion"], "title": "Hair today, gone tomorrow: Margaret Atwood in Canada censorship row"},{"date": "2015-07-01T14:51:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "", "tags": ["Canada", "Canada holidays", "Americas", "Travel", "World news"], "title": "Canada Day quiz: which of these famous people is Canadian?"},{"date": "2015-07-02T11:00:04Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canadians! You know us. We\u2019re the ones who apologise for bumping into you while chugging back a beer, wearing a toque and peppering every sentence with an \u201ceh\u201d or two. Rick Moranis and Dave Thomas created the characters of Bob and Doug Mckenzie to parody every cliche about Canada for the comedy show SCTV. Their hit Take Off featured Rush\u2019s Geddy Lee (10 bucks is 10 bucks) singing the chorus. It\u2019s a \u201cbeauty\u201d way to start, eh?Canada wouldn\u2019t have become what it is today without the building of the Canadian Pacific Railway. This epic chapter in Canadian history is well told by Gordon Lightfoot in the Canadian Railroad Trilogy.Let\u2019s cross the country starting in the east. Troubadour Stan Rogers had a particular affection for the region. Free in the Harbour tells the poignant story of the end of whaling as an industry and the migration of Newfoundlanders west to find work in the oil patch. Canadian icon Stompin\u2019 Tom Connors sings about Bud the Spud, a trucker hauling \u201cthe best doggone potatoes that\u2019s ever been growed and they\u2019re from Prince Edward Island!\u201d Leaving the Maritimes we find ourselves in Quebec. Ginette Reno\u2019s rendition of fellow Quebecer Jean-Pierre Ferland\u2019s Un Peu Plus Haut, Un Peu Plus Loin at the St Jean Baptiste Day celebration in 1975 brought the house down. A song about a breakup, its lyrics, including the line \u201cI cannot hold your hand any longer\u201d, had a deeper meaning for the nationalists who gave her a 10-minute standing ovation. A year later the separatist Parti Quebecois took power in the province. Now on to Ontario where Bruce Cockburn is wandering the streets of Toronto \u201cwishing you were here on The Coldest Night of the Year\u201d. Manitoba is the birthplace of Lucille Starr. Her 1964 bilingual hit The French Song (Quand Le Soleil Dit Bonjour Au Montagnes) was the first Canadian recording to sell over a million copies. Raised by adoptive parents in Massachusetts, Buffy Sainte-Marie went back to her Cree roots for inspiration as she blended native chants into a song of her birthplace, Qu\u2019appelle Valley, Saskatchewan. A prolific song writer, singer and political activist, she won an Oscar for co-writing Up Where We Belong (from the film An Officer and a Gentleman - 1982).Due South, a crime drama set in Chicago, featured a Mountie attached to the Canadian consulate who solved crimes with a Chicago PD detective. It was the first Canadian-made TV show to win a prime-time spot on US television. Alberta-born actor and singer Paul Gross penned and sang Ride Forever, a stirring tribute to the Mounties. Look for the cameo by Leslie Nielsen who has a recurring role in the series.Another westerner, Dean Brody, thinks the Beach Boys can have their California Girls. The Beatles can have their Moscow girls back in the USSR. He thinks none can compare to Canadian Girls!And finally we arrive in Vancouver where Spirit of the West takes us on The Crawl visiting pubs from Horseshoe Bay to Deep Cove. Tragically, singer John Mann was diagnosed with early onset of Alzheimer\u2019s disease last September. The band plans to continue performing using an iPad as a teleprompter so he can get by when the lyrics slip his memory.Our penultimate song is the only one not performed by a Canadian. The only one that doesn\u2019t specifically mention Canada. The 1980 cross-country run by amputee Terry Fox inspired the country, and indeed the world. Rod Stewart was inspired and dedicated Never Give Up on a Dream to Fox, who succumbed to cancer the year the song was released. Rush drummer Neil Peart once said: \u201cIt is always a happy day when YYZ appears on our luggage tags!\u201d YYZ is the code for Toronto International Airport and home for the power trio. Like Dorothy Gale in the Wizard of Oz, Canadians know \u201cthere\u2019s no place like home\u201d. Canada, the true north, strong and free. 1 July was the 148th anniversary of Canada\u2019s independence as a country. Happy birthday Canada! The playlist", "tags": ["Music", "Canada", "Americas", "Culture", "Country", "Pop and rock", "Jazz", "Soul", "Punk"], "title": "Readers recommend: songs from or about Canada - results"},{"date": "2015-11-29T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was the sight of a beached whale that provided us with a hint that we might soon get up close and personal with one of the planet\u2019s greatest predators. Our party was drifting \u2013 in Zodiac power boats \u2013 over the icy waters of Coningham Bay, on Prince William Island in Canada\u2019s high Arctic \u2013 when the beluga was spotted lying on the shore. A couple of others were seen minutes later. Stripped of their skin and blubber, the beluga carcasses were the leftovers of an Inuit hunting party and they were providing irresistible enticement for another set of locals: two large male polar bears.The pair appeared over a sand dune and lumbered down to take a munch or two of whale before wandering off, clearly having already gorged themselves earlier. One bear \u2013 a huge hill of an animal with white and yellow fur, a battered nose and dainty cottonwool-like ears \u2013 swam to a nearby ice floe, where he sat staring at us. For the next quarter of an hour, he contemplated our tourist-filled boats \u2013 a feast in the making from his perspective. Our pilots kept their engines revved for a quick escape, though the bear was obviously in no mood for action, just a bit of eyeballing.It was a breathtaking encounter: the world\u2019s largest land carnivore posing only a few dozen yards away against a backdrop of misty Arctic wasteland \u2013 though I should stress that polar bears were not the only wonders we witnessed in our trip through the Northwest Passage. We also saw finback whales, narwhals, musk ox, gyrfalcons, Arctic hare, snowy owls, any amount of gulls and a plethora of other seabirds.In any case wildlife is not the high Arctic\u2019s only attraction. The landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and haunting, with islands stripped of any signs of life save for the thinnest strands of vegetation clinging to the gale-swept ground and crumbling Hudson Bay trading stations abandoned decades ago.In the 19th century hundreds of men died here trying to find a northwest passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific, the expedition of Sir John Franklin \u2013 which disappeared in 1845 \u2013 being the grimmest, but by no means only, example. Today global warming is melting the Arctic\u2019s summer ice, and ships with strengthened hulls can sail the passage with ease for several weeks a year. Hence our decision to abandon Europe\u2019s summer to experience this land of ice and snow as it is transformed by climate change at a speed unmatched in any another other region on Earth.Wildlife is not the only attraction: the Arctic landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and hauntingIt was a deeply satisfying but surprisingly busy experience. There were constant lectures and talks and, with the exception of our two-day voyage across Baffin Bay, we had at least one shore trip a day: to Beechey Island, where three of Franklin\u2019s men are buried below bleached wooden grave markers; to Prince Leopold Island, whose soaring cliffs provide sanctuary for tens of thousands of kittiwakes, fulmars and guillemots; and to the Inuit towns of Sisimiut and Pond Inlet.These journeys involved the donning of thermal underwear, woollen shirts and heavy-duty waterproof gear \u2013 which might seem surprising given that temperatures rarely dropped below zero. However if you don\u2019t have proper clothing, long journeys in open Zodiacs, in fierce cutting winds, can seriously chill the blood.It was by no means an arduous holiday. The food on our ship, the Akademik Sergey Vavilov, was lavish; there was a cocktail of the day and a happy hour; a hot tub on deck; and yes, bars of chocolate were left on our newly made beds every evening.My wife Sarah and I did have two main worries before setting off: rough seas and fellow passengers. Among the latter, we feared that a few loud-mouthed rednecks in the ship\u2019s confines might wreck our sanity. Instead we got well-informed, amusing and articulate shipmates. Some were the best-travelled individuals I have ever encountered. Others had spent their savings just to make this journey, to see a land in melting transition. It was a humbling experience.As to the high seas, they didn\u2019t materialise either. From our trip\u2019s starting point at Kangerlussuaq in Greenland, across Baffin Bay\u2019s ice floes and icebergs, into Lancaster Sound and south through Victoria Strait before reaching our 2,000km journey\u2019s end at Cambridge Bay, on Victoria Island, the seas were calm. Even our journey through the Bellot Strait \u2013 which separates the most northerly point of mainland America from Canada\u2019s Arctic islands and is rated one of the world\u2019s most formidable sea passages \u2013 was smooth and restful.Indeed that trip, on a glorious August evening, was especially exhilarating as we cruised through the narrow channel from Atlantic waters to those of the Pacific, towards the setting sun. At one point we could see a lone wolf on the shore watching us. Later a polar bear swam across our bows. And that is not your everyday holiday experience.Robin McKie travelled with One Ocean Expeditions on a 12-night Classic Northwest Passage voyage. Prices start from \u00a36,850 per person sharing a twin cabin including meals and accommodation on board, Zodiac excursions, ship transfers and foul weather gear. Return flights are \u00a3783 from Ottawa to Kangerlussuaq and Cambridge Bay to Edmonton (oneoceanexpeditions.com)", "tags": ["Arctic holidays", "Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Northwest Passage, Canada: going with the floe"},{"date": "2015-11-29T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was the sight of a beached whale that provided us with a hint that we might soon get up close and personal with one of the planet\u2019s greatest predators. Our party was drifting \u2013 in Zodiac power boats \u2013 over the icy waters of Coningham Bay, on Prince William Island in Canada\u2019s high Arctic \u2013 when the beluga was spotted lying on the shore. A couple of others were seen minutes later. Stripped of their skin and blubber, the beluga carcasses were the leftovers of an Inuit hunting party and they were providing irresistible enticement for another set of locals: two large male polar bears.The pair appeared over a sand dune and lumbered down to take a munch or two of whale before wandering off, clearly having already gorged themselves earlier. One bear \u2013 a huge hill of an animal with white and yellow fur, a battered nose and dainty cottonwool-like ears \u2013 swam to a nearby ice floe, where he sat staring at us. For the next quarter of an hour, he contemplated our tourist-filled boats \u2013 a feast in the making from his perspective. Our pilots kept their engines revved for a quick escape, though the bear was obviously in no mood for action, just a bit of eyeballing.It was a breathtaking encounter: the world\u2019s largest land carnivore posing only a few dozen yards away against a backdrop of misty Arctic wasteland \u2013 though I should stress that polar bears were not the only wonders we witnessed in our trip through the Northwest Passage. We also saw finback whales, narwhals, musk ox, gyrfalcons, Arctic hare, snowy owls, any amount of gulls and a plethora of other seabirds.In any case wildlife is not the high Arctic\u2019s only attraction. The landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and haunting, with islands stripped of any signs of life save for the thinnest strands of vegetation clinging to the gale-swept ground and crumbling Hudson Bay trading stations abandoned decades ago.In the 19th century hundreds of men died here trying to find a northwest passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific, the expedition of Sir John Franklin \u2013 which disappeared in 1845 \u2013 being the grimmest, but by no means only, example. Today global warming is melting the Arctic\u2019s summer ice, and ships with strengthened hulls can sail the passage with ease for several weeks a year. Hence our decision to abandon Europe\u2019s summer to experience this land of ice and snow as it is transformed by climate change at a speed unmatched in any another other region on Earth.Wildlife is not the only attraction: the Arctic landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and hauntingIt was a deeply satisfying but surprisingly busy experience. There were constant lectures and talks and, with the exception of our two-day voyage across Baffin Bay, we had at least one shore trip a day: to Beechey Island, where three of Franklin\u2019s men are buried below bleached wooden grave markers; to Prince Leopold Island, whose soaring cliffs provide sanctuary for tens of thousands of kittiwakes, fulmars and guillemots; and to the Inuit towns of Sisimiut and Pond Inlet.These journeys involved the donning of thermal underwear, woollen shirts and heavy-duty waterproof gear \u2013 which might seem surprising given that temperatures rarely dropped below zero. However if you don\u2019t have proper clothing, long journeys in open Zodiacs, in fierce cutting winds, can seriously chill the blood.It was by no means an arduous holiday. The food on our ship, the Akademik Sergey Vavilov, was lavish; there was a cocktail of the day and a happy hour; a hot tub on deck; and yes, bars of chocolate were left on our newly made beds every evening.My wife Sarah and I did have two main worries before setting off: rough seas and fellow passengers. Among the latter, we feared that a few loud-mouthed rednecks in the ship\u2019s confines might wreck our sanity. Instead we got well-informed, amusing and articulate shipmates. Some were the best-travelled individuals I have ever encountered. Others had spent their savings just to make this journey, to see a land in melting transition. It was a humbling experience.As to the high seas, they didn\u2019t materialise either. From our trip\u2019s starting point at Kangerlussuaq in Greenland, across Baffin Bay\u2019s ice floes and icebergs, into Lancaster Sound and south through Victoria Strait before reaching our 2,000km journey\u2019s end at Cambridge Bay, on Victoria Island, the seas were calm. Even our journey through the Bellot Strait \u2013 which separates the most northerly point of mainland America from Canada\u2019s Arctic islands and is rated one of the world\u2019s most formidable sea passages \u2013 was smooth and restful.Indeed that trip, on a glorious August evening, was especially exhilarating as we cruised through the narrow channel from Atlantic waters to those of the Pacific, towards the setting sun. At one point we could see a lone wolf on the shore watching us. Later a polar bear swam across our bows. And that is not your everyday holiday experience.Robin McKie travelled with One Ocean Expeditions on a 12-night Classic Northwest Passage voyage. Prices start from \u00a36,850 per person sharing a twin cabin including meals and accommodation on board, Zodiac excursions, ship transfers and foul weather gear. Return flights are \u00a3783 from Ottawa to Kangerlussuaq and Cambridge Bay to Edmonton (oneoceanexpeditions.com)", "tags": ["Arctic holidays", "Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Northwest Passage, Canada: going with the floe"},{"date": "2015-12-11T14:06:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hamid Osman has some advice for the Syrian refugee family who will soon be resettled in Whitehorse, the Yukon capital about 211 miles (340km) north of Juneau, Alaska. Related: Justin Trudeau greets Syrian refugees arriving in Canada \u201cWinter is something you have to get ready for \u2013 you need a good coat and good shoes,\u201d he said in a telephone call from Inuvik, in the Northwest Territories, where he is a member of the world\u2019s northernmost mosque.Living in the land of the midnight sun, where daylight lasts up to 20 hours in summer, can also pose an extra challenge for Muslims fasting during monthlong Ramadan, he warned.\u201cIt\u2019s 24 hours daylight here \u2013 you can\u2019t fast the whole month. Either they\u2019ll have to follow their hometown hours or Mecca,\u201d he said.Of the more than 75 Canadian communities that will open their doors to 25,000 Syrian refugees in the coming weeks, Whitehorse is among the most far flung.Across Canada, government departments, NGOs and local groups are scrambling to lay the groundwork for the country\u2019s most ambitious refugee resettlement programme since the Vietnam war.The first refugee flight landed in Toronto on Thursday afternoon, where they were greeted by the prime minister, Justin Trudeau. A second flight is scheduled to land in Montreal on Saturday.\u201cThis is a wonderful night, where we get to show not just a planeload of new Canadians what Canada is all about, we get to show the world how to open our hearts and welcome in people who are fleeing extraordinarily difficult situations,\u201d Trudeau said earlier to staff and volunteers who were waiting to process the refugees.After his landslide electoral victory in October, Trudeau repeated a campaign pledge to resettle 25,000 refugees by 31 December. In late November, the Liberals admitted they would fail to meet the target, saying they will bring in 10,000 mostly private-sponsored refugees by the year\u2019s end and another 15,000 government-sponsored refugees by 29 February. A further 10,000 government-sponsored Syrian refugees will arrive over the course of 2016.Even with the delay, it is an unprecedented number to be brought in on such a short timeline, dwarfing the influx of 5,000 Kosovars who fled to Canada in 1999. Related: Canada's Vietnamese community lends helping hand to Syrian refugees But volunteer groups say they are ready to welcome them. Raquel de Queiroz, 33, the director of Yukon Cares \u2013 a group of Whitehorse residents privately sponsoring the family of 10 \u2013 said she was galvanized to offer help by the photographs of drowned toddler Alan Kurdi, whose body washed up on a Turkish beach in September.In three months, Yukon Cares raised $46,000 to sponsor the Syrian family and help them with food, rent, clothing and furniture in Canada. They will be responsible for shepherding the family through the healthcare system and enrolling them in school and language courses.\u201cWe have a small Arabic community, Muslim community. We even have a Syrian in town who\u2019s very on board with helping out as much as he can,\u201d she said.\u201cWe\u2019ll do our best to make them feel welcomed. And they will be safe here.\u201dFor now, De Queiroz and her group know little about the family they will be bringing in beyond their names, ages and the fact that they are Syrian Sunnis who have been living in Lebanon and who speak no English. Their arrival date has not yet been confirmed.The government\u2019s most recent figures show that 1,537 permanent resident visas have so far been issued and almost 12,538 refugee applications are currently being processed.United Nations High Commission for Refugee officials, who are assisting with the resettlement plans, recently told reporters they were having difficulty finding refugees ready or willing to come to Canada on such short notice.Part of getting ready is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so trueAngela Keller-Herzog, with the volunteer-run Ottawa Centre Refugee Action, said her group is ready to sponsor up to 30 refugees through the UNHCR referral program but that just three have been confirmed so far.\u201cWe are saying: \u2018OK, we\u2019re ready, send us some cases,\u2019\u201d she said. \u201cThose case files \u2013 these are just not coming down the pipeline at this moment.\u201dLouisa Taylor, director of Refugee613 in Ottawa, which is helping coordinate resettlement in the nation\u2019s capital, said: \u201cThe demand for refugees far outstrips the supply.\u201dShe added that organizations like hers are \u201cinundated\u201d with donations and offers to help.\u201cPart of getting ready, oddly enough, is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so true,\u201d she said.Meanwhile, as the settlement sector waits for the refugees to begin arriving by the planeload \u2013 more than 400 people will need to arrive every day to meet the December target \u2013 Refugee613 is stretched to maximum capacity.Dr Meb Rashid, medical director at the Crossroads Clinic, a hospital-based Toronto refugee health center, said the government\u2019s plans have shifted dramatically from one week to the next.\u201cThere are a lot of moving parts to coordinate and it\u2019s very hard to plan when you don\u2019t know numbers, you don\u2019t know dates,\u201d he said.\u201cEvery week it seems clearer than the week before, but we can\u2019t say we have absolute clarity yet.\u201dBut both Taylor and Rashid say Canada has the ability to absorb the influx \u2013 though Taylor and expressed concern about the availability of affordable housing in major cities.Taylor said in the end, though, they will be \u201cready anytime\u201d to welcome the newcomers.\u201cWe can make it work \u2013 we will scramble with whatever gets dumped our way because that\u2019s what we do, that\u2019s what the situation demands,\u201d she said.", "tags": ["Canada", "Refugees", "World news", "Americas", "Syria"], "title": "Trudeau greets Syrian refugees as Canada prepares for more arrivals"},{"date": "2015-11-29T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was the sight of a beached whale that provided us with a hint that we might soon get up close and personal with one of the planet\u2019s greatest predators. Our party was drifting \u2013 in Zodiac power boats \u2013 over the icy waters of Coningham Bay, on Prince William Island in Canada\u2019s high Arctic \u2013 when the beluga was spotted lying on the shore. A couple of others were seen minutes later. Stripped of their skin and blubber, the beluga carcasses were the leftovers of an Inuit hunting party and they were providing irresistible enticement for another set of locals: two large male polar bears.The pair appeared over a sand dune and lumbered down to take a munch or two of whale before wandering off, clearly having already gorged themselves earlier. One bear \u2013 a huge hill of an animal with white and yellow fur, a battered nose and dainty cottonwool-like ears \u2013 swam to a nearby ice floe, where he sat staring at us. For the next quarter of an hour, he contemplated our tourist-filled boats \u2013 a feast in the making from his perspective. Our pilots kept their engines revved for a quick escape, though the bear was obviously in no mood for action, just a bit of eyeballing.It was a breathtaking encounter: the world\u2019s largest land carnivore posing only a few dozen yards away against a backdrop of misty Arctic wasteland \u2013 though I should stress that polar bears were not the only wonders we witnessed in our trip through the Northwest Passage. We also saw finback whales, narwhals, musk ox, gyrfalcons, Arctic hare, snowy owls, any amount of gulls and a plethora of other seabirds.In any case wildlife is not the high Arctic\u2019s only attraction. The landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and haunting, with islands stripped of any signs of life save for the thinnest strands of vegetation clinging to the gale-swept ground and crumbling Hudson Bay trading stations abandoned decades ago.In the 19th century hundreds of men died here trying to find a northwest passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific, the expedition of Sir John Franklin \u2013 which disappeared in 1845 \u2013 being the grimmest, but by no means only, example. Today global warming is melting the Arctic\u2019s summer ice, and ships with strengthened hulls can sail the passage with ease for several weeks a year. Hence our decision to abandon Europe\u2019s summer to experience this land of ice and snow as it is transformed by climate change at a speed unmatched in any another other region on Earth.Wildlife is not the only attraction: the Arctic landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and hauntingIt was a deeply satisfying but surprisingly busy experience. There were constant lectures and talks and, with the exception of our two-day voyage across Baffin Bay, we had at least one shore trip a day: to Beechey Island, where three of Franklin\u2019s men are buried below bleached wooden grave markers; to Prince Leopold Island, whose soaring cliffs provide sanctuary for tens of thousands of kittiwakes, fulmars and guillemots; and to the Inuit towns of Sisimiut and Pond Inlet.These journeys involved the donning of thermal underwear, woollen shirts and heavy-duty waterproof gear \u2013 which might seem surprising given that temperatures rarely dropped below zero. However if you don\u2019t have proper clothing, long journeys in open Zodiacs, in fierce cutting winds, can seriously chill the blood.It was by no means an arduous holiday. The food on our ship, the Akademik Sergey Vavilov, was lavish; there was a cocktail of the day and a happy hour; a hot tub on deck; and yes, bars of chocolate were left on our newly made beds every evening.My wife Sarah and I did have two main worries before setting off: rough seas and fellow passengers. Among the latter, we feared that a few loud-mouthed rednecks in the ship\u2019s confines might wreck our sanity. Instead we got well-informed, amusing and articulate shipmates. Some were the best-travelled individuals I have ever encountered. Others had spent their savings just to make this journey, to see a land in melting transition. It was a humbling experience.As to the high seas, they didn\u2019t materialise either. From our trip\u2019s starting point at Kangerlussuaq in Greenland, across Baffin Bay\u2019s ice floes and icebergs, into Lancaster Sound and south through Victoria Strait before reaching our 2,000km journey\u2019s end at Cambridge Bay, on Victoria Island, the seas were calm. Even our journey through the Bellot Strait \u2013 which separates the most northerly point of mainland America from Canada\u2019s Arctic islands and is rated one of the world\u2019s most formidable sea passages \u2013 was smooth and restful.Indeed that trip, on a glorious August evening, was especially exhilarating as we cruised through the narrow channel from Atlantic waters to those of the Pacific, towards the setting sun. At one point we could see a lone wolf on the shore watching us. Later a polar bear swam across our bows. And that is not your everyday holiday experience.Robin McKie travelled with One Ocean Expeditions on a 12-night Classic Northwest Passage voyage. Prices start from \u00a36,850 per person sharing a twin cabin including meals and accommodation on board, Zodiac excursions, ship transfers and foul weather gear. Return flights are \u00a3783 from Ottawa to Kangerlussuaq and Cambridge Bay to Edmonton (oneoceanexpeditions.com)", "tags": ["Arctic holidays", "Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Northwest Passage, Canada: going with the floe"},{"date": "2015-12-11T14:06:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hamid Osman has some advice for the Syrian refugee family who will soon be resettled in Whitehorse, the Yukon capital about 211 miles (340km) north of Juneau, Alaska. Related: Justin Trudeau greets Syrian refugees arriving in Canada \u201cWinter is something you have to get ready for \u2013 you need a good coat and good shoes,\u201d he said in a telephone call from Inuvik, in the Northwest Territories, where he is a member of the world\u2019s northernmost mosque.Living in the land of the midnight sun, where daylight lasts up to 20 hours in summer, can also pose an extra challenge for Muslims fasting during monthlong Ramadan, he warned.\u201cIt\u2019s 24 hours daylight here \u2013 you can\u2019t fast the whole month. Either they\u2019ll have to follow their hometown hours or Mecca,\u201d he said.Of the more than 75 Canadian communities that will open their doors to 25,000 Syrian refugees in the coming weeks, Whitehorse is among the most far flung.Across Canada, government departments, NGOs and local groups are scrambling to lay the groundwork for the country\u2019s most ambitious refugee resettlement programme since the Vietnam war.The first refugee flight landed in Toronto on Thursday afternoon, where they were greeted by the prime minister, Justin Trudeau. A second flight is scheduled to land in Montreal on Saturday.\u201cThis is a wonderful night, where we get to show not just a planeload of new Canadians what Canada is all about, we get to show the world how to open our hearts and welcome in people who are fleeing extraordinarily difficult situations,\u201d Trudeau said earlier to staff and volunteers who were waiting to process the refugees.After his landslide electoral victory in October, Trudeau repeated a campaign pledge to resettle 25,000 refugees by 31 December. In late November, the Liberals admitted they would fail to meet the target, saying they will bring in 10,000 mostly private-sponsored refugees by the year\u2019s end and another 15,000 government-sponsored refugees by 29 February. A further 10,000 government-sponsored Syrian refugees will arrive over the course of 2016.Even with the delay, it is an unprecedented number to be brought in on such a short timeline, dwarfing the influx of 5,000 Kosovars who fled to Canada in 1999. Related: Canada's Vietnamese community lends helping hand to Syrian refugees But volunteer groups say they are ready to welcome them. Raquel de Queiroz, 33, the director of Yukon Cares \u2013 a group of Whitehorse residents privately sponsoring the family of 10 \u2013 said she was galvanized to offer help by the photographs of drowned toddler Alan Kurdi, whose body washed up on a Turkish beach in September.In three months, Yukon Cares raised $46,000 to sponsor the Syrian family and help them with food, rent, clothing and furniture in Canada. They will be responsible for shepherding the family through the healthcare system and enrolling them in school and language courses.\u201cWe have a small Arabic community, Muslim community. We even have a Syrian in town who\u2019s very on board with helping out as much as he can,\u201d she said.\u201cWe\u2019ll do our best to make them feel welcomed. And they will be safe here.\u201dFor now, De Queiroz and her group know little about the family they will be bringing in beyond their names, ages and the fact that they are Syrian Sunnis who have been living in Lebanon and who speak no English. Their arrival date has not yet been confirmed.The government\u2019s most recent figures show that 1,537 permanent resident visas have so far been issued and almost 12,538 refugee applications are currently being processed.United Nations High Commission for Refugee officials, who are assisting with the resettlement plans, recently told reporters they were having difficulty finding refugees ready or willing to come to Canada on such short notice.Part of getting ready is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so trueAngela Keller-Herzog, with the volunteer-run Ottawa Centre Refugee Action, said her group is ready to sponsor up to 30 refugees through the UNHCR referral program but that just three have been confirmed so far.\u201cWe are saying: \u2018OK, we\u2019re ready, send us some cases,\u2019\u201d she said. \u201cThose case files \u2013 these are just not coming down the pipeline at this moment.\u201dLouisa Taylor, director of Refugee613 in Ottawa, which is helping coordinate resettlement in the nation\u2019s capital, said: \u201cThe demand for refugees far outstrips the supply.\u201dShe added that organizations like hers are \u201cinundated\u201d with donations and offers to help.\u201cPart of getting ready, oddly enough, is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so true,\u201d she said.Meanwhile, as the settlement sector waits for the refugees to begin arriving by the planeload \u2013 more than 400 people will need to arrive every day to meet the December target \u2013 Refugee613 is stretched to maximum capacity.Dr Meb Rashid, medical director at the Crossroads Clinic, a hospital-based Toronto refugee health center, said the government\u2019s plans have shifted dramatically from one week to the next.\u201cThere are a lot of moving parts to coordinate and it\u2019s very hard to plan when you don\u2019t know numbers, you don\u2019t know dates,\u201d he said.\u201cEvery week it seems clearer than the week before, but we can\u2019t say we have absolute clarity yet.\u201dBut both Taylor and Rashid say Canada has the ability to absorb the influx \u2013 though Taylor and expressed concern about the availability of affordable housing in major cities.Taylor said in the end, though, they will be \u201cready anytime\u201d to welcome the newcomers.\u201cWe can make it work \u2013 we will scramble with whatever gets dumped our way because that\u2019s what we do, that\u2019s what the situation demands,\u201d she said.", "tags": ["Canada", "Refugees", "World news", "Americas", "Syria"], "title": "Trudeau greets Syrian refugees as Canada prepares for more arrivals"},{"date": "2015-12-08T21:56:36Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada\u2019s government has launched a long-awaited national inquiry into the murder or disappearance of hundreds of indigenous women, as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau promised a \u201ctotal renewal\u201d of the country\u2019s relationship with its aboriginal population. Speaking to an Assembly of First Nations (AFN) special chiefs gathering in Gatineau, Qu\u00e9bec, the Liberal leader announced that his government had begun the process to create the inquiry into the nearly 1,200 indigenous women and girls who have been murdered or who have gone missing in Canada over the past three decades.Activists, aboriginal leadership and many victims\u2019 families have been calling for a national inquiry for more than five years \u2013 a move which was resisted by Trudeau\u2019s conservative predecessor, Stephen Harper.\u201cThe victims deserve justice, their families an opportunity to heal and to be heard,\u201d said Trudeau. \u201cWe must work together to put an end to this ongoing tragedy.\u201dJustice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould said that over the next two months the government will consult victims\u2019 families and Aboriginal leaders to gather their views on the design, scope and parameters of the full inquiry, expected to begin sometime next spring.\u201cNo inquiry can undo what happened nor can it restore what was lost, but it can help us find a way forward,\u201d she said.Claudette Commanda, an Algonquin First Nations member and activist who was invited to Tuesday\u2019s announcement, called it a \u201chistorical event\u201d.\u201cIt is time to hear their voices, it is time for justice,\u201d she said.The first phase will also include an online component with background information, a survey and discussion guide accessible to all Canadians.  Related: CBC's racist comment sections spark debate on Canada's prejudice problem Indigenous women make up just 4% of Canada\u2019s female population but 16% of all women murdered in the country. First Nations, Inuit and Metis women are three times more likely to report experiencing violence.Indigenous affairs minister Carolyn Bennett said the national inquiry will \u201ctake as long as it takes to get it right\u201d and that no official budget has yet been set.The Liberals had pledged $40m over two years in their campaign platform for the project.Bennett said the end goal of the inquiry \u201cis to be able to find concrete action that will be able to stop this national tragedy\u201d.But Mag Cywink, whose sister Sonya was killed in 1994, said she wanted to see the government take action. \u201cAn inquiry can never bring my sister back. I just don\u2019t want this to happen to my nieces, to my grandchildren and great-grandchildren,\u201d she said.Cywink also wants all levels of government to look at past inquiries \u2013 the 1996, 4,000-page Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples, the 2012 British Columbia Missing Women Commission of Inquiry, the recent Truth and Reconciliation report, and work by grassroots organizations \u2013 and to begin implementing the hundreds or recommendations already put forward but never applied.\u201cA lot of the homework has already been done, a lot of the answers are out there, a lot of the questions have been answered about what\u2019s wrong and what\u2019s causing these kinds of problems,\u201d she said.Trudeau, whose landslide victory in October was helped in part by a record number of First Nations voters, promised earlier on Tuesday to reset the country\u2019s relationship with Canada\u2019s 1.4 million indigenous peoples.Speaking to an Assembly of First Nations (AFN) special chiefs gathering in Gatineau, Qu\u00e9bec, the Liberal leader said his government would work to develop a new kind of relationship: \u201cOne that understands that constitutionally guaranteed rights are not an inconvenience but a sacred obligation, one based on recognition of rights, respect, cooperation and partnership.\u201dTrudeau has made big promises on the Aboriginal file on everything from water and housing to education, funding and infrastructure \u2013 pledges that, if implemented, will help address issues like rampant poverty and homelessness that make aboriginal women more vulnerable to deadly violence.The high expectations from the AFN and its members were on display Tuesday morning.\u201cYou have made a great start in changing the narrative, prime minister. You have reached out your hand as a treaty partner in a respectful way,\u201d said AFN national chief Perry Bellegarde in his morning address.\u201cWe are hopeful, we are optimistic, let\u2019s get to work.\u201d ", "tags": ["Canada", "Indigenous peoples", "Justin Trudeau", "Quebec", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada launches inquiry into murdered and missing indigenous women"},{"date": "2015-11-29T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was the sight of a beached whale that provided us with a hint that we might soon get up close and personal with one of the planet\u2019s greatest predators. Our party was drifting \u2013 in Zodiac power boats \u2013 over the icy waters of Coningham Bay, on Prince William Island in Canada\u2019s high Arctic \u2013 when the beluga was spotted lying on the shore. A couple of others were seen minutes later. Stripped of their skin and blubber, the beluga carcasses were the leftovers of an Inuit hunting party and they were providing irresistible enticement for another set of locals: two large male polar bears.The pair appeared over a sand dune and lumbered down to take a munch or two of whale before wandering off, clearly having already gorged themselves earlier. One bear \u2013 a huge hill of an animal with white and yellow fur, a battered nose and dainty cottonwool-like ears \u2013 swam to a nearby ice floe, where he sat staring at us. For the next quarter of an hour, he contemplated our tourist-filled boats \u2013 a feast in the making from his perspective. Our pilots kept their engines revved for a quick escape, though the bear was obviously in no mood for action, just a bit of eyeballing.It was a breathtaking encounter: the world\u2019s largest land carnivore posing only a few dozen yards away against a backdrop of misty Arctic wasteland \u2013 though I should stress that polar bears were not the only wonders we witnessed in our trip through the Northwest Passage. We also saw finback whales, narwhals, musk ox, gyrfalcons, Arctic hare, snowy owls, any amount of gulls and a plethora of other seabirds.In any case wildlife is not the high Arctic\u2019s only attraction. The landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and haunting, with islands stripped of any signs of life save for the thinnest strands of vegetation clinging to the gale-swept ground and crumbling Hudson Bay trading stations abandoned decades ago.In the 19th century hundreds of men died here trying to find a northwest passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific, the expedition of Sir John Franklin \u2013 which disappeared in 1845 \u2013 being the grimmest, but by no means only, example. Today global warming is melting the Arctic\u2019s summer ice, and ships with strengthened hulls can sail the passage with ease for several weeks a year. Hence our decision to abandon Europe\u2019s summer to experience this land of ice and snow as it is transformed by climate change at a speed unmatched in any another other region on Earth.Wildlife is not the only attraction: the Arctic landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and hauntingIt was a deeply satisfying but surprisingly busy experience. There were constant lectures and talks and, with the exception of our two-day voyage across Baffin Bay, we had at least one shore trip a day: to Beechey Island, where three of Franklin\u2019s men are buried below bleached wooden grave markers; to Prince Leopold Island, whose soaring cliffs provide sanctuary for tens of thousands of kittiwakes, fulmars and guillemots; and to the Inuit towns of Sisimiut and Pond Inlet.These journeys involved the donning of thermal underwear, woollen shirts and heavy-duty waterproof gear \u2013 which might seem surprising given that temperatures rarely dropped below zero. However if you don\u2019t have proper clothing, long journeys in open Zodiacs, in fierce cutting winds, can seriously chill the blood.It was by no means an arduous holiday. The food on our ship, the Akademik Sergey Vavilov, was lavish; there was a cocktail of the day and a happy hour; a hot tub on deck; and yes, bars of chocolate were left on our newly made beds every evening.My wife Sarah and I did have two main worries before setting off: rough seas and fellow passengers. Among the latter, we feared that a few loud-mouthed rednecks in the ship\u2019s confines might wreck our sanity. Instead we got well-informed, amusing and articulate shipmates. Some were the best-travelled individuals I have ever encountered. Others had spent their savings just to make this journey, to see a land in melting transition. It was a humbling experience.As to the high seas, they didn\u2019t materialise either. From our trip\u2019s starting point at Kangerlussuaq in Greenland, across Baffin Bay\u2019s ice floes and icebergs, into Lancaster Sound and south through Victoria Strait before reaching our 2,000km journey\u2019s end at Cambridge Bay, on Victoria Island, the seas were calm. Even our journey through the Bellot Strait \u2013 which separates the most northerly point of mainland America from Canada\u2019s Arctic islands and is rated one of the world\u2019s most formidable sea passages \u2013 was smooth and restful.Indeed that trip, on a glorious August evening, was especially exhilarating as we cruised through the narrow channel from Atlantic waters to those of the Pacific, towards the setting sun. At one point we could see a lone wolf on the shore watching us. Later a polar bear swam across our bows. And that is not your everyday holiday experience.Robin McKie travelled with One Ocean Expeditions on a 12-night Classic Northwest Passage voyage. Prices start from \u00a36,850 per person sharing a twin cabin including meals and accommodation on board, Zodiac excursions, ship transfers and foul weather gear. Return flights are \u00a3783 from Ottawa to Kangerlussuaq and Cambridge Bay to Edmonton (oneoceanexpeditions.com)", "tags": ["Arctic holidays", "Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Northwest Passage, Canada: going with the floe"},{"date": "2015-12-11T14:06:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hamid Osman has some advice for the Syrian refugee family who will soon be resettled in Whitehorse, the Yukon capital about 211 miles (340km) north of Juneau, Alaska. Related: Justin Trudeau greets Syrian refugees arriving in Canada \u201cWinter is something you have to get ready for \u2013 you need a good coat and good shoes,\u201d he said in a telephone call from Inuvik, in the Northwest Territories, where he is a member of the world\u2019s northernmost mosque.Living in the land of the midnight sun, where daylight lasts up to 20 hours in summer, can also pose an extra challenge for Muslims fasting during monthlong Ramadan, he warned.\u201cIt\u2019s 24 hours daylight here \u2013 you can\u2019t fast the whole month. Either they\u2019ll have to follow their hometown hours or Mecca,\u201d he said.Of the more than 75 Canadian communities that will open their doors to 25,000 Syrian refugees in the coming weeks, Whitehorse is among the most far flung.Across Canada, government departments, NGOs and local groups are scrambling to lay the groundwork for the country\u2019s most ambitious refugee resettlement programme since the Vietnam war.The first refugee flight landed in Toronto on Thursday afternoon, where they were greeted by the prime minister, Justin Trudeau. A second flight is scheduled to land in Montreal on Saturday.\u201cThis is a wonderful night, where we get to show not just a planeload of new Canadians what Canada is all about, we get to show the world how to open our hearts and welcome in people who are fleeing extraordinarily difficult situations,\u201d Trudeau said earlier to staff and volunteers who were waiting to process the refugees.After his landslide electoral victory in October, Trudeau repeated a campaign pledge to resettle 25,000 refugees by 31 December. In late November, the Liberals admitted they would fail to meet the target, saying they will bring in 10,000 mostly private-sponsored refugees by the year\u2019s end and another 15,000 government-sponsored refugees by 29 February. A further 10,000 government-sponsored Syrian refugees will arrive over the course of 2016.Even with the delay, it is an unprecedented number to be brought in on such a short timeline, dwarfing the influx of 5,000 Kosovars who fled to Canada in 1999. Related: Canada's Vietnamese community lends helping hand to Syrian refugees But volunteer groups say they are ready to welcome them. Raquel de Queiroz, 33, the director of Yukon Cares \u2013 a group of Whitehorse residents privately sponsoring the family of 10 \u2013 said she was galvanized to offer help by the photographs of drowned toddler Alan Kurdi, whose body washed up on a Turkish beach in September.In three months, Yukon Cares raised $46,000 to sponsor the Syrian family and help them with food, rent, clothing and furniture in Canada. They will be responsible for shepherding the family through the healthcare system and enrolling them in school and language courses.\u201cWe have a small Arabic community, Muslim community. We even have a Syrian in town who\u2019s very on board with helping out as much as he can,\u201d she said.\u201cWe\u2019ll do our best to make them feel welcomed. And they will be safe here.\u201dFor now, De Queiroz and her group know little about the family they will be bringing in beyond their names, ages and the fact that they are Syrian Sunnis who have been living in Lebanon and who speak no English. Their arrival date has not yet been confirmed.The government\u2019s most recent figures show that 1,537 permanent resident visas have so far been issued and almost 12,538 refugee applications are currently being processed.United Nations High Commission for Refugee officials, who are assisting with the resettlement plans, recently told reporters they were having difficulty finding refugees ready or willing to come to Canada on such short notice.Part of getting ready is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so trueAngela Keller-Herzog, with the volunteer-run Ottawa Centre Refugee Action, said her group is ready to sponsor up to 30 refugees through the UNHCR referral program but that just three have been confirmed so far.\u201cWe are saying: \u2018OK, we\u2019re ready, send us some cases,\u2019\u201d she said. \u201cThose case files \u2013 these are just not coming down the pipeline at this moment.\u201dLouisa Taylor, director of Refugee613 in Ottawa, which is helping coordinate resettlement in the nation\u2019s capital, said: \u201cThe demand for refugees far outstrips the supply.\u201dShe added that organizations like hers are \u201cinundated\u201d with donations and offers to help.\u201cPart of getting ready, oddly enough, is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so true,\u201d she said.Meanwhile, as the settlement sector waits for the refugees to begin arriving by the planeload \u2013 more than 400 people will need to arrive every day to meet the December target \u2013 Refugee613 is stretched to maximum capacity.Dr Meb Rashid, medical director at the Crossroads Clinic, a hospital-based Toronto refugee health center, said the government\u2019s plans have shifted dramatically from one week to the next.\u201cThere are a lot of moving parts to coordinate and it\u2019s very hard to plan when you don\u2019t know numbers, you don\u2019t know dates,\u201d he said.\u201cEvery week it seems clearer than the week before, but we can\u2019t say we have absolute clarity yet.\u201dBut both Taylor and Rashid say Canada has the ability to absorb the influx \u2013 though Taylor and expressed concern about the availability of affordable housing in major cities.Taylor said in the end, though, they will be \u201cready anytime\u201d to welcome the newcomers.\u201cWe can make it work \u2013 we will scramble with whatever gets dumped our way because that\u2019s what we do, that\u2019s what the situation demands,\u201d she said.", "tags": ["Canada", "Refugees", "World news", "Americas", "Syria"], "title": "Trudeau greets Syrian refugees as Canada prepares for more arrivals"},{"date": "2015-12-08T21:56:36Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada\u2019s government has launched a long-awaited national inquiry into the murder or disappearance of hundreds of indigenous women, as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau promised a \u201ctotal renewal\u201d of the country\u2019s relationship with its aboriginal population. Speaking to an Assembly of First Nations (AFN) special chiefs gathering in Gatineau, Qu\u00e9bec, the Liberal leader announced that his government had begun the process to create the inquiry into the nearly 1,200 indigenous women and girls who have been murdered or who have gone missing in Canada over the past three decades.Activists, aboriginal leadership and many victims\u2019 families have been calling for a national inquiry for more than five years \u2013 a move which was resisted by Trudeau\u2019s conservative predecessor, Stephen Harper.\u201cThe victims deserve justice, their families an opportunity to heal and to be heard,\u201d said Trudeau. \u201cWe must work together to put an end to this ongoing tragedy.\u201dJustice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould said that over the next two months the government will consult victims\u2019 families and Aboriginal leaders to gather their views on the design, scope and parameters of the full inquiry, expected to begin sometime next spring.\u201cNo inquiry can undo what happened nor can it restore what was lost, but it can help us find a way forward,\u201d she said.Claudette Commanda, an Algonquin First Nations member and activist who was invited to Tuesday\u2019s announcement, called it a \u201chistorical event\u201d.\u201cIt is time to hear their voices, it is time for justice,\u201d she said.The first phase will also include an online component with background information, a survey and discussion guide accessible to all Canadians.  Related: CBC's racist comment sections spark debate on Canada's prejudice problem Indigenous women make up just 4% of Canada\u2019s female population but 16% of all women murdered in the country. First Nations, Inuit and Metis women are three times more likely to report experiencing violence.Indigenous affairs minister Carolyn Bennett said the national inquiry will \u201ctake as long as it takes to get it right\u201d and that no official budget has yet been set.The Liberals had pledged $40m over two years in their campaign platform for the project.Bennett said the end goal of the inquiry \u201cis to be able to find concrete action that will be able to stop this national tragedy\u201d.But Mag Cywink, whose sister Sonya was killed in 1994, said she wanted to see the government take action. \u201cAn inquiry can never bring my sister back. I just don\u2019t want this to happen to my nieces, to my grandchildren and great-grandchildren,\u201d she said.Cywink also wants all levels of government to look at past inquiries \u2013 the 1996, 4,000-page Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples, the 2012 British Columbia Missing Women Commission of Inquiry, the recent Truth and Reconciliation report, and work by grassroots organizations \u2013 and to begin implementing the hundreds or recommendations already put forward but never applied.\u201cA lot of the homework has already been done, a lot of the answers are out there, a lot of the questions have been answered about what\u2019s wrong and what\u2019s causing these kinds of problems,\u201d she said.Trudeau, whose landslide victory in October was helped in part by a record number of First Nations voters, promised earlier on Tuesday to reset the country\u2019s relationship with Canada\u2019s 1.4 million indigenous peoples.Speaking to an Assembly of First Nations (AFN) special chiefs gathering in Gatineau, Qu\u00e9bec, the Liberal leader said his government would work to develop a new kind of relationship: \u201cOne that understands that constitutionally guaranteed rights are not an inconvenience but a sacred obligation, one based on recognition of rights, respect, cooperation and partnership.\u201dTrudeau has made big promises on the Aboriginal file on everything from water and housing to education, funding and infrastructure \u2013 pledges that, if implemented, will help address issues like rampant poverty and homelessness that make aboriginal women more vulnerable to deadly violence.The high expectations from the AFN and its members were on display Tuesday morning.\u201cYou have made a great start in changing the narrative, prime minister. You have reached out your hand as a treaty partner in a respectful way,\u201d said AFN national chief Perry Bellegarde in his morning address.\u201cWe are hopeful, we are optimistic, let\u2019s get to work.\u201d ", "tags": ["Canada", "Indigenous peoples", "Justin Trudeau", "Quebec", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada launches inquiry into murdered and missing indigenous women"},{"date": "2015-11-19T12:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada\u2019s long-awaited national inquiry into the disappearance or murder of nearly 1,200 indigenous women will look radically different from previous attempts to grapple with shocking levels of violence against aboriginal women, according to the country\u2019s new federal indigenous affairs minister.In an interview with the Guardian, Carolyn Bennett said that victims\u2019 families will play a key role in the inquiry, which could also include elements of aboriginal ceremony and culture.Bennett said whoever is picked to head the inquiry will also need to \u201cbe able to be creative and innovative in the way this commission takes place\u201d.\u201cI heard from enough families that if it\u2019s a very court-like procedure, a very judicial atmosphere, it may not work for them,\u201d she said. \u201cSome say specifically they don\u2019t want it to look like inquiries of the past.\u201d Related: Unsolved murders of indigenous women reflect Canada's history of silence A total of 1,181 indigenous women and girls have been murdered or have disappeared in suspicious circumstances over the past 30 years. In June, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) concluded that First Nations women are four times more likely to go missing or be murdered than other Canadian women are.But previous efforts to investigate violence against indigenous women \u2013 including several RCMP studies, a 1996 Royal Commission and a 2012 commission in British Columbia \u2013 have been ignored by federal governments and faced criticism for failing to include the victims\u2019 families. Bernadette Smith, whose sister Claudette Osborne-Tyo has been missing since 2008, said: \u201cFamilies were excluded, lawyers got rich, pockets got lined, lots of recommendations were made, [but] how many of them were actually implemented? Not very many. There are still women dying out there.\u201d Victims\u2019 families \u2013 as well as Indigenous activists, the United Nations and human rights groups \u2013 have long called for a national inquiry, but were rebuffed by the Conservative government of former prime minister Stephen Harper. Harper\u2019s Liberal successor, Justin Trudeau, who won a landslide victory last month, has made the national inquiry a priority, setting aside a budget of CDN$40m over two years.The Liberal government has also promised to boost funding for education, housing, and infrastructure in the First Nations and to implement all 94 recommendations in a report by the country\u2019s Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which concluded that Canada had pursued a policy of \u201ccultural genocide\u201d against its aboriginal population.The pledges have been met with an equal measure of optimism and skepticism. \u201cIt is a huge, huge responsibility for us to actually be able to get on with the reconciliation that is required,\u201d said Bennett.The gap in the standard of living between indigenous and non-indigenous Canadians remains large. Poverty, incarceration, and suicide rates are higher among aboriginal people, while life expectancy is lower. Indigenous education and housing are in crisis; in more than 90 of the country\u2019s 634 First Nations, tap water is unsafe to drink without boiling.The gravity of the situation means that the inquiry must also be accompanied by immediate action, said Dawn Lavell-Harvard, president of the Native Women\u2019s Association of Canada.\u201cIf there\u2019s a fire in the house, you don\u2019t sit there saying we\u2019re going to wait until the fire commissioner comes,\u201d she said.Bernadette Smith cautioned that many recommendations from previous inquiries still need to be fully implemented, including improvements to housing and education, rehabilitation programs for aboriginal men who commit violence and better policing.But while Smith is skeptical about the latest inquiry, she said she still hopes it will highlight the root causes behind the violence against indigenous women.\u201cI think it will shed light on the fact our people are looked at as less than [non-indigenous] Canadians,\u201d she said.Smith and other activists said that for the inquiry to succeed, victims\u2019 families must be given the necessary support to participate fully \u2013 including funding for those traveling from remote reserves.Activists also say that it is crucial that the inquiry actively sets out to portray the missing and murdered women as human beings \u2013 not simply names on a list. The government is expected to launch a pre-consultation on the inquiry in the coming weeks and hopes to launch the full inquiry by the summer of 2016.Bennett said that getting the inquiry right \u201cmeans everything\u201d.\u201cWe can\u2019t let the families down again.\u201d", "tags": ["Canada", "Indigenous peoples", "Americas", "World news", "Gender"], "title": "Canada pledges 'innovative' inquiry into violence against indigenous women"},{"date": "2015-11-29T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was the sight of a beached whale that provided us with a hint that we might soon get up close and personal with one of the planet\u2019s greatest predators. Our party was drifting \u2013 in Zodiac power boats \u2013 over the icy waters of Coningham Bay, on Prince William Island in Canada\u2019s high Arctic \u2013 when the beluga was spotted lying on the shore. A couple of others were seen minutes later. Stripped of their skin and blubber, the beluga carcasses were the leftovers of an Inuit hunting party and they were providing irresistible enticement for another set of locals: two large male polar bears.The pair appeared over a sand dune and lumbered down to take a munch or two of whale before wandering off, clearly having already gorged themselves earlier. One bear \u2013 a huge hill of an animal with white and yellow fur, a battered nose and dainty cottonwool-like ears \u2013 swam to a nearby ice floe, where he sat staring at us. For the next quarter of an hour, he contemplated our tourist-filled boats \u2013 a feast in the making from his perspective. Our pilots kept their engines revved for a quick escape, though the bear was obviously in no mood for action, just a bit of eyeballing.It was a breathtaking encounter: the world\u2019s largest land carnivore posing only a few dozen yards away against a backdrop of misty Arctic wasteland \u2013 though I should stress that polar bears were not the only wonders we witnessed in our trip through the Northwest Passage. We also saw finback whales, narwhals, musk ox, gyrfalcons, Arctic hare, snowy owls, any amount of gulls and a plethora of other seabirds.In any case wildlife is not the high Arctic\u2019s only attraction. The landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and haunting, with islands stripped of any signs of life save for the thinnest strands of vegetation clinging to the gale-swept ground and crumbling Hudson Bay trading stations abandoned decades ago.In the 19th century hundreds of men died here trying to find a northwest passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific, the expedition of Sir John Franklin \u2013 which disappeared in 1845 \u2013 being the grimmest, but by no means only, example. Today global warming is melting the Arctic\u2019s summer ice, and ships with strengthened hulls can sail the passage with ease for several weeks a year. Hence our decision to abandon Europe\u2019s summer to experience this land of ice and snow as it is transformed by climate change at a speed unmatched in any another other region on Earth.Wildlife is not the only attraction: the Arctic landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and hauntingIt was a deeply satisfying but surprisingly busy experience. There were constant lectures and talks and, with the exception of our two-day voyage across Baffin Bay, we had at least one shore trip a day: to Beechey Island, where three of Franklin\u2019s men are buried below bleached wooden grave markers; to Prince Leopold Island, whose soaring cliffs provide sanctuary for tens of thousands of kittiwakes, fulmars and guillemots; and to the Inuit towns of Sisimiut and Pond Inlet.These journeys involved the donning of thermal underwear, woollen shirts and heavy-duty waterproof gear \u2013 which might seem surprising given that temperatures rarely dropped below zero. However if you don\u2019t have proper clothing, long journeys in open Zodiacs, in fierce cutting winds, can seriously chill the blood.It was by no means an arduous holiday. The food on our ship, the Akademik Sergey Vavilov, was lavish; there was a cocktail of the day and a happy hour; a hot tub on deck; and yes, bars of chocolate were left on our newly made beds every evening.My wife Sarah and I did have two main worries before setting off: rough seas and fellow passengers. Among the latter, we feared that a few loud-mouthed rednecks in the ship\u2019s confines might wreck our sanity. Instead we got well-informed, amusing and articulate shipmates. Some were the best-travelled individuals I have ever encountered. Others had spent their savings just to make this journey, to see a land in melting transition. It was a humbling experience.As to the high seas, they didn\u2019t materialise either. From our trip\u2019s starting point at Kangerlussuaq in Greenland, across Baffin Bay\u2019s ice floes and icebergs, into Lancaster Sound and south through Victoria Strait before reaching our 2,000km journey\u2019s end at Cambridge Bay, on Victoria Island, the seas were calm. Even our journey through the Bellot Strait \u2013 which separates the most northerly point of mainland America from Canada\u2019s Arctic islands and is rated one of the world\u2019s most formidable sea passages \u2013 was smooth and restful.Indeed that trip, on a glorious August evening, was especially exhilarating as we cruised through the narrow channel from Atlantic waters to those of the Pacific, towards the setting sun. At one point we could see a lone wolf on the shore watching us. Later a polar bear swam across our bows. And that is not your everyday holiday experience.Robin McKie travelled with One Ocean Expeditions on a 12-night Classic Northwest Passage voyage. Prices start from \u00a36,850 per person sharing a twin cabin including meals and accommodation on board, Zodiac excursions, ship transfers and foul weather gear. Return flights are \u00a3783 from Ottawa to Kangerlussuaq and Cambridge Bay to Edmonton (oneoceanexpeditions.com)", "tags": ["Arctic holidays", "Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Northwest Passage, Canada: going with the floe"},{"date": "2015-12-11T14:06:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hamid Osman has some advice for the Syrian refugee family who will soon be resettled in Whitehorse, the Yukon capital about 211 miles (340km) north of Juneau, Alaska. Related: Justin Trudeau greets Syrian refugees arriving in Canada \u201cWinter is something you have to get ready for \u2013 you need a good coat and good shoes,\u201d he said in a telephone call from Inuvik, in the Northwest Territories, where he is a member of the world\u2019s northernmost mosque.Living in the land of the midnight sun, where daylight lasts up to 20 hours in summer, can also pose an extra challenge for Muslims fasting during monthlong Ramadan, he warned.\u201cIt\u2019s 24 hours daylight here \u2013 you can\u2019t fast the whole month. Either they\u2019ll have to follow their hometown hours or Mecca,\u201d he said.Of the more than 75 Canadian communities that will open their doors to 25,000 Syrian refugees in the coming weeks, Whitehorse is among the most far flung.Across Canada, government departments, NGOs and local groups are scrambling to lay the groundwork for the country\u2019s most ambitious refugee resettlement programme since the Vietnam war.The first refugee flight landed in Toronto on Thursday afternoon, where they were greeted by the prime minister, Justin Trudeau. A second flight is scheduled to land in Montreal on Saturday.\u201cThis is a wonderful night, where we get to show not just a planeload of new Canadians what Canada is all about, we get to show the world how to open our hearts and welcome in people who are fleeing extraordinarily difficult situations,\u201d Trudeau said earlier to staff and volunteers who were waiting to process the refugees.After his landslide electoral victory in October, Trudeau repeated a campaign pledge to resettle 25,000 refugees by 31 December. In late November, the Liberals admitted they would fail to meet the target, saying they will bring in 10,000 mostly private-sponsored refugees by the year\u2019s end and another 15,000 government-sponsored refugees by 29 February. A further 10,000 government-sponsored Syrian refugees will arrive over the course of 2016.Even with the delay, it is an unprecedented number to be brought in on such a short timeline, dwarfing the influx of 5,000 Kosovars who fled to Canada in 1999. Related: Canada's Vietnamese community lends helping hand to Syrian refugees But volunteer groups say they are ready to welcome them. Raquel de Queiroz, 33, the director of Yukon Cares \u2013 a group of Whitehorse residents privately sponsoring the family of 10 \u2013 said she was galvanized to offer help by the photographs of drowned toddler Alan Kurdi, whose body washed up on a Turkish beach in September.In three months, Yukon Cares raised $46,000 to sponsor the Syrian family and help them with food, rent, clothing and furniture in Canada. They will be responsible for shepherding the family through the healthcare system and enrolling them in school and language courses.\u201cWe have a small Arabic community, Muslim community. We even have a Syrian in town who\u2019s very on board with helping out as much as he can,\u201d she said.\u201cWe\u2019ll do our best to make them feel welcomed. And they will be safe here.\u201dFor now, De Queiroz and her group know little about the family they will be bringing in beyond their names, ages and the fact that they are Syrian Sunnis who have been living in Lebanon and who speak no English. Their arrival date has not yet been confirmed.The government\u2019s most recent figures show that 1,537 permanent resident visas have so far been issued and almost 12,538 refugee applications are currently being processed.United Nations High Commission for Refugee officials, who are assisting with the resettlement plans, recently told reporters they were having difficulty finding refugees ready or willing to come to Canada on such short notice.Part of getting ready is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so trueAngela Keller-Herzog, with the volunteer-run Ottawa Centre Refugee Action, said her group is ready to sponsor up to 30 refugees through the UNHCR referral program but that just three have been confirmed so far.\u201cWe are saying: \u2018OK, we\u2019re ready, send us some cases,\u2019\u201d she said. \u201cThose case files \u2013 these are just not coming down the pipeline at this moment.\u201dLouisa Taylor, director of Refugee613 in Ottawa, which is helping coordinate resettlement in the nation\u2019s capital, said: \u201cThe demand for refugees far outstrips the supply.\u201dShe added that organizations like hers are \u201cinundated\u201d with donations and offers to help.\u201cPart of getting ready, oddly enough, is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so true,\u201d she said.Meanwhile, as the settlement sector waits for the refugees to begin arriving by the planeload \u2013 more than 400 people will need to arrive every day to meet the December target \u2013 Refugee613 is stretched to maximum capacity.Dr Meb Rashid, medical director at the Crossroads Clinic, a hospital-based Toronto refugee health center, said the government\u2019s plans have shifted dramatically from one week to the next.\u201cThere are a lot of moving parts to coordinate and it\u2019s very hard to plan when you don\u2019t know numbers, you don\u2019t know dates,\u201d he said.\u201cEvery week it seems clearer than the week before, but we can\u2019t say we have absolute clarity yet.\u201dBut both Taylor and Rashid say Canada has the ability to absorb the influx \u2013 though Taylor and expressed concern about the availability of affordable housing in major cities.Taylor said in the end, though, they will be \u201cready anytime\u201d to welcome the newcomers.\u201cWe can make it work \u2013 we will scramble with whatever gets dumped our way because that\u2019s what we do, that\u2019s what the situation demands,\u201d she said.", "tags": ["Canada", "Refugees", "World news", "Americas", "Syria"], "title": "Trudeau greets Syrian refugees as Canada prepares for more arrivals"},{"date": "2015-12-08T21:56:36Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada\u2019s government has launched a long-awaited national inquiry into the murder or disappearance of hundreds of indigenous women, as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau promised a \u201ctotal renewal\u201d of the country\u2019s relationship with its aboriginal population. Speaking to an Assembly of First Nations (AFN) special chiefs gathering in Gatineau, Qu\u00e9bec, the Liberal leader announced that his government had begun the process to create the inquiry into the nearly 1,200 indigenous women and girls who have been murdered or who have gone missing in Canada over the past three decades.Activists, aboriginal leadership and many victims\u2019 families have been calling for a national inquiry for more than five years \u2013 a move which was resisted by Trudeau\u2019s conservative predecessor, Stephen Harper.\u201cThe victims deserve justice, their families an opportunity to heal and to be heard,\u201d said Trudeau. \u201cWe must work together to put an end to this ongoing tragedy.\u201dJustice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould said that over the next two months the government will consult victims\u2019 families and Aboriginal leaders to gather their views on the design, scope and parameters of the full inquiry, expected to begin sometime next spring.\u201cNo inquiry can undo what happened nor can it restore what was lost, but it can help us find a way forward,\u201d she said.Claudette Commanda, an Algonquin First Nations member and activist who was invited to Tuesday\u2019s announcement, called it a \u201chistorical event\u201d.\u201cIt is time to hear their voices, it is time for justice,\u201d she said.The first phase will also include an online component with background information, a survey and discussion guide accessible to all Canadians.  Related: CBC's racist comment sections spark debate on Canada's prejudice problem Indigenous women make up just 4% of Canada\u2019s female population but 16% of all women murdered in the country. First Nations, Inuit and Metis women are three times more likely to report experiencing violence.Indigenous affairs minister Carolyn Bennett said the national inquiry will \u201ctake as long as it takes to get it right\u201d and that no official budget has yet been set.The Liberals had pledged $40m over two years in their campaign platform for the project.Bennett said the end goal of the inquiry \u201cis to be able to find concrete action that will be able to stop this national tragedy\u201d.But Mag Cywink, whose sister Sonya was killed in 1994, said she wanted to see the government take action. \u201cAn inquiry can never bring my sister back. I just don\u2019t want this to happen to my nieces, to my grandchildren and great-grandchildren,\u201d she said.Cywink also wants all levels of government to look at past inquiries \u2013 the 1996, 4,000-page Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples, the 2012 British Columbia Missing Women Commission of Inquiry, the recent Truth and Reconciliation report, and work by grassroots organizations \u2013 and to begin implementing the hundreds or recommendations already put forward but never applied.\u201cA lot of the homework has already been done, a lot of the answers are out there, a lot of the questions have been answered about what\u2019s wrong and what\u2019s causing these kinds of problems,\u201d she said.Trudeau, whose landslide victory in October was helped in part by a record number of First Nations voters, promised earlier on Tuesday to reset the country\u2019s relationship with Canada\u2019s 1.4 million indigenous peoples.Speaking to an Assembly of First Nations (AFN) special chiefs gathering in Gatineau, Qu\u00e9bec, the Liberal leader said his government would work to develop a new kind of relationship: \u201cOne that understands that constitutionally guaranteed rights are not an inconvenience but a sacred obligation, one based on recognition of rights, respect, cooperation and partnership.\u201dTrudeau has made big promises on the Aboriginal file on everything from water and housing to education, funding and infrastructure \u2013 pledges that, if implemented, will help address issues like rampant poverty and homelessness that make aboriginal women more vulnerable to deadly violence.The high expectations from the AFN and its members were on display Tuesday morning.\u201cYou have made a great start in changing the narrative, prime minister. You have reached out your hand as a treaty partner in a respectful way,\u201d said AFN national chief Perry Bellegarde in his morning address.\u201cWe are hopeful, we are optimistic, let\u2019s get to work.\u201d ", "tags": ["Canada", "Indigenous peoples", "Justin Trudeau", "Quebec", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada launches inquiry into murdered and missing indigenous women"},{"date": "2015-11-19T12:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada\u2019s long-awaited national inquiry into the disappearance or murder of nearly 1,200 indigenous women will look radically different from previous attempts to grapple with shocking levels of violence against aboriginal women, according to the country\u2019s new federal indigenous affairs minister.In an interview with the Guardian, Carolyn Bennett said that victims\u2019 families will play a key role in the inquiry, which could also include elements of aboriginal ceremony and culture.Bennett said whoever is picked to head the inquiry will also need to \u201cbe able to be creative and innovative in the way this commission takes place\u201d.\u201cI heard from enough families that if it\u2019s a very court-like procedure, a very judicial atmosphere, it may not work for them,\u201d she said. \u201cSome say specifically they don\u2019t want it to look like inquiries of the past.\u201d Related: Unsolved murders of indigenous women reflect Canada's history of silence A total of 1,181 indigenous women and girls have been murdered or have disappeared in suspicious circumstances over the past 30 years. In June, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) concluded that First Nations women are four times more likely to go missing or be murdered than other Canadian women are.But previous efforts to investigate violence against indigenous women \u2013 including several RCMP studies, a 1996 Royal Commission and a 2012 commission in British Columbia \u2013 have been ignored by federal governments and faced criticism for failing to include the victims\u2019 families. Bernadette Smith, whose sister Claudette Osborne-Tyo has been missing since 2008, said: \u201cFamilies were excluded, lawyers got rich, pockets got lined, lots of recommendations were made, [but] how many of them were actually implemented? Not very many. There are still women dying out there.\u201d Victims\u2019 families \u2013 as well as Indigenous activists, the United Nations and human rights groups \u2013 have long called for a national inquiry, but were rebuffed by the Conservative government of former prime minister Stephen Harper. Harper\u2019s Liberal successor, Justin Trudeau, who won a landslide victory last month, has made the national inquiry a priority, setting aside a budget of CDN$40m over two years.The Liberal government has also promised to boost funding for education, housing, and infrastructure in the First Nations and to implement all 94 recommendations in a report by the country\u2019s Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which concluded that Canada had pursued a policy of \u201ccultural genocide\u201d against its aboriginal population.The pledges have been met with an equal measure of optimism and skepticism. \u201cIt is a huge, huge responsibility for us to actually be able to get on with the reconciliation that is required,\u201d said Bennett.The gap in the standard of living between indigenous and non-indigenous Canadians remains large. Poverty, incarceration, and suicide rates are higher among aboriginal people, while life expectancy is lower. Indigenous education and housing are in crisis; in more than 90 of the country\u2019s 634 First Nations, tap water is unsafe to drink without boiling.The gravity of the situation means that the inquiry must also be accompanied by immediate action, said Dawn Lavell-Harvard, president of the Native Women\u2019s Association of Canada.\u201cIf there\u2019s a fire in the house, you don\u2019t sit there saying we\u2019re going to wait until the fire commissioner comes,\u201d she said.Bernadette Smith cautioned that many recommendations from previous inquiries still need to be fully implemented, including improvements to housing and education, rehabilitation programs for aboriginal men who commit violence and better policing.But while Smith is skeptical about the latest inquiry, she said she still hopes it will highlight the root causes behind the violence against indigenous women.\u201cI think it will shed light on the fact our people are looked at as less than [non-indigenous] Canadians,\u201d she said.Smith and other activists said that for the inquiry to succeed, victims\u2019 families must be given the necessary support to participate fully \u2013 including funding for those traveling from remote reserves.Activists also say that it is crucial that the inquiry actively sets out to portray the missing and murdered women as human beings \u2013 not simply names on a list. The government is expected to launch a pre-consultation on the inquiry in the coming weeks and hopes to launch the full inquiry by the summer of 2016.Bennett said that getting the inquiry right \u201cmeans everything\u201d.\u201cWe can\u2019t let the families down again.\u201d", "tags": ["Canada", "Indigenous peoples", "Americas", "World news", "Gender"], "title": "Canada pledges 'innovative' inquiry into violence against indigenous women"},{"date": "2015-11-17T11:30:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Environmental groups are taking the Canadian government to court in an attempt to halt the production of genetically modified salmon eggs, claiming that the process risks a \u201chuge live experiment\u201d with the genetic makeup of all wild Atlantic salmon.A US firm has been granted permission to produce fertile salmon eggs in Canada and ship them to Panama, where they will be grown in the hope that the fish will be given approval for human consumption in the US and Canada. Related: GM salmon's global HQ \u2013 1,500m high in the Panamanian rainforest AquaBounty Technologies, which is based in Massachusetts, insists that its genetically modified fish pose no threat to the environment and will be kept in special disease- and antibiotic-free conditions. The modified fish can grow to the size of wild salmon with 75% less feed, reducing the product\u2019s carbon footprint by up to 25 times, AquaBounty claims.However, environmentalists will head to Canada\u2019s federal court on Tuesday to argue that there is a real risk of mixing between the GM salmon and wild fish and that the Canadian government was wrong to approve the production of the eggs in Prince Edward Island.\u201cThis will potentially be the world\u2019s first genetically modified fish available for human consumption and it\u2019s clear the GM industry wants to get other animal products approved after this,\u201d said Mark Butler, campaigner at the Ecology Action Centre, which is bringing the case alongside the Living Oceans Society.\u201cWe think the measures to avoid mixing with the wild Atlantic salmon are inadequate and once there is genetic contamination the wild salmon is forever changed. It would be a huge live experiment and we wouldn\u2019t know the consequences.\u201dButler said hurricanes, human error or equipment failure could release the GM fish from their land-based hatcheries into the ocean. He added that treatment to ensure the GM salmon cannot reproduce is not always effective.The environmentalists\u2019 court case alleges that the Canadian government breached its own environmental laws by providing AquaBounty with a far wider permit than it was assessed on, potentially opening the way for other companies to produce GM fish eggs in Canada. The lawsuit also states the government did not follow the correct procedures in its approval.AquaBounty has been seeking approval to sell its GM products for consumption in the US since 1995. The company\u2019s chief executive, Ron Stotish, said the court case is \u201ccompletely without merit\u201d.A spokeswoman for Environment Canada, the government\u2019s environmental agency, would not comment on the case. Opposition to genetically modified food endures in many countries, with activists in India this week criticising reported plans to produce GM mustard in the country. ", "tags": ["GM", "Food & drink industry", "Canada", "Business", "US news", "Panama", "World news", "Americas", "Environment"], "title": "Canada sued over approval of genetically modified salmon scheme"},{"date": "2015-11-29T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was the sight of a beached whale that provided us with a hint that we might soon get up close and personal with one of the planet\u2019s greatest predators. Our party was drifting \u2013 in Zodiac power boats \u2013 over the icy waters of Coningham Bay, on Prince William Island in Canada\u2019s high Arctic \u2013 when the beluga was spotted lying on the shore. A couple of others were seen minutes later. Stripped of their skin and blubber, the beluga carcasses were the leftovers of an Inuit hunting party and they were providing irresistible enticement for another set of locals: two large male polar bears.The pair appeared over a sand dune and lumbered down to take a munch or two of whale before wandering off, clearly having already gorged themselves earlier. One bear \u2013 a huge hill of an animal with white and yellow fur, a battered nose and dainty cottonwool-like ears \u2013 swam to a nearby ice floe, where he sat staring at us. For the next quarter of an hour, he contemplated our tourist-filled boats \u2013 a feast in the making from his perspective. Our pilots kept their engines revved for a quick escape, though the bear was obviously in no mood for action, just a bit of eyeballing.It was a breathtaking encounter: the world\u2019s largest land carnivore posing only a few dozen yards away against a backdrop of misty Arctic wasteland \u2013 though I should stress that polar bears were not the only wonders we witnessed in our trip through the Northwest Passage. We also saw finback whales, narwhals, musk ox, gyrfalcons, Arctic hare, snowy owls, any amount of gulls and a plethora of other seabirds.In any case wildlife is not the high Arctic\u2019s only attraction. The landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and haunting, with islands stripped of any signs of life save for the thinnest strands of vegetation clinging to the gale-swept ground and crumbling Hudson Bay trading stations abandoned decades ago.In the 19th century hundreds of men died here trying to find a northwest passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific, the expedition of Sir John Franklin \u2013 which disappeared in 1845 \u2013 being the grimmest, but by no means only, example. Today global warming is melting the Arctic\u2019s summer ice, and ships with strengthened hulls can sail the passage with ease for several weeks a year. Hence our decision to abandon Europe\u2019s summer to experience this land of ice and snow as it is transformed by climate change at a speed unmatched in any another other region on Earth.Wildlife is not the only attraction: the Arctic landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and hauntingIt was a deeply satisfying but surprisingly busy experience. There were constant lectures and talks and, with the exception of our two-day voyage across Baffin Bay, we had at least one shore trip a day: to Beechey Island, where three of Franklin\u2019s men are buried below bleached wooden grave markers; to Prince Leopold Island, whose soaring cliffs provide sanctuary for tens of thousands of kittiwakes, fulmars and guillemots; and to the Inuit towns of Sisimiut and Pond Inlet.These journeys involved the donning of thermal underwear, woollen shirts and heavy-duty waterproof gear \u2013 which might seem surprising given that temperatures rarely dropped below zero. However if you don\u2019t have proper clothing, long journeys in open Zodiacs, in fierce cutting winds, can seriously chill the blood.It was by no means an arduous holiday. The food on our ship, the Akademik Sergey Vavilov, was lavish; there was a cocktail of the day and a happy hour; a hot tub on deck; and yes, bars of chocolate were left on our newly made beds every evening.My wife Sarah and I did have two main worries before setting off: rough seas and fellow passengers. Among the latter, we feared that a few loud-mouthed rednecks in the ship\u2019s confines might wreck our sanity. Instead we got well-informed, amusing and articulate shipmates. Some were the best-travelled individuals I have ever encountered. Others had spent their savings just to make this journey, to see a land in melting transition. It was a humbling experience.As to the high seas, they didn\u2019t materialise either. From our trip\u2019s starting point at Kangerlussuaq in Greenland, across Baffin Bay\u2019s ice floes and icebergs, into Lancaster Sound and south through Victoria Strait before reaching our 2,000km journey\u2019s end at Cambridge Bay, on Victoria Island, the seas were calm. Even our journey through the Bellot Strait \u2013 which separates the most northerly point of mainland America from Canada\u2019s Arctic islands and is rated one of the world\u2019s most formidable sea passages \u2013 was smooth and restful.Indeed that trip, on a glorious August evening, was especially exhilarating as we cruised through the narrow channel from Atlantic waters to those of the Pacific, towards the setting sun. At one point we could see a lone wolf on the shore watching us. Later a polar bear swam across our bows. And that is not your everyday holiday experience.Robin McKie travelled with One Ocean Expeditions on a 12-night Classic Northwest Passage voyage. Prices start from \u00a36,850 per person sharing a twin cabin including meals and accommodation on board, Zodiac excursions, ship transfers and foul weather gear. Return flights are \u00a3783 from Ottawa to Kangerlussuaq and Cambridge Bay to Edmonton (oneoceanexpeditions.com)", "tags": ["Arctic holidays", "Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Northwest Passage, Canada: going with the floe"},{"date": "2015-12-11T14:06:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hamid Osman has some advice for the Syrian refugee family who will soon be resettled in Whitehorse, the Yukon capital about 211 miles (340km) north of Juneau, Alaska. Related: Justin Trudeau greets Syrian refugees arriving in Canada \u201cWinter is something you have to get ready for \u2013 you need a good coat and good shoes,\u201d he said in a telephone call from Inuvik, in the Northwest Territories, where he is a member of the world\u2019s northernmost mosque.Living in the land of the midnight sun, where daylight lasts up to 20 hours in summer, can also pose an extra challenge for Muslims fasting during monthlong Ramadan, he warned.\u201cIt\u2019s 24 hours daylight here \u2013 you can\u2019t fast the whole month. Either they\u2019ll have to follow their hometown hours or Mecca,\u201d he said.Of the more than 75 Canadian communities that will open their doors to 25,000 Syrian refugees in the coming weeks, Whitehorse is among the most far flung.Across Canada, government departments, NGOs and local groups are scrambling to lay the groundwork for the country\u2019s most ambitious refugee resettlement programme since the Vietnam war.The first refugee flight landed in Toronto on Thursday afternoon, where they were greeted by the prime minister, Justin Trudeau. A second flight is scheduled to land in Montreal on Saturday.\u201cThis is a wonderful night, where we get to show not just a planeload of new Canadians what Canada is all about, we get to show the world how to open our hearts and welcome in people who are fleeing extraordinarily difficult situations,\u201d Trudeau said earlier to staff and volunteers who were waiting to process the refugees.After his landslide electoral victory in October, Trudeau repeated a campaign pledge to resettle 25,000 refugees by 31 December. In late November, the Liberals admitted they would fail to meet the target, saying they will bring in 10,000 mostly private-sponsored refugees by the year\u2019s end and another 15,000 government-sponsored refugees by 29 February. A further 10,000 government-sponsored Syrian refugees will arrive over the course of 2016.Even with the delay, it is an unprecedented number to be brought in on such a short timeline, dwarfing the influx of 5,000 Kosovars who fled to Canada in 1999. Related: Canada's Vietnamese community lends helping hand to Syrian refugees But volunteer groups say they are ready to welcome them. Raquel de Queiroz, 33, the director of Yukon Cares \u2013 a group of Whitehorse residents privately sponsoring the family of 10 \u2013 said she was galvanized to offer help by the photographs of drowned toddler Alan Kurdi, whose body washed up on a Turkish beach in September.In three months, Yukon Cares raised $46,000 to sponsor the Syrian family and help them with food, rent, clothing and furniture in Canada. They will be responsible for shepherding the family through the healthcare system and enrolling them in school and language courses.\u201cWe have a small Arabic community, Muslim community. We even have a Syrian in town who\u2019s very on board with helping out as much as he can,\u201d she said.\u201cWe\u2019ll do our best to make them feel welcomed. And they will be safe here.\u201dFor now, De Queiroz and her group know little about the family they will be bringing in beyond their names, ages and the fact that they are Syrian Sunnis who have been living in Lebanon and who speak no English. Their arrival date has not yet been confirmed.The government\u2019s most recent figures show that 1,537 permanent resident visas have so far been issued and almost 12,538 refugee applications are currently being processed.United Nations High Commission for Refugee officials, who are assisting with the resettlement plans, recently told reporters they were having difficulty finding refugees ready or willing to come to Canada on such short notice.Part of getting ready is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so trueAngela Keller-Herzog, with the volunteer-run Ottawa Centre Refugee Action, said her group is ready to sponsor up to 30 refugees through the UNHCR referral program but that just three have been confirmed so far.\u201cWe are saying: \u2018OK, we\u2019re ready, send us some cases,\u2019\u201d she said. \u201cThose case files \u2013 these are just not coming down the pipeline at this moment.\u201dLouisa Taylor, director of Refugee613 in Ottawa, which is helping coordinate resettlement in the nation\u2019s capital, said: \u201cThe demand for refugees far outstrips the supply.\u201dShe added that organizations like hers are \u201cinundated\u201d with donations and offers to help.\u201cPart of getting ready, oddly enough, is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so true,\u201d she said.Meanwhile, as the settlement sector waits for the refugees to begin arriving by the planeload \u2013 more than 400 people will need to arrive every day to meet the December target \u2013 Refugee613 is stretched to maximum capacity.Dr Meb Rashid, medical director at the Crossroads Clinic, a hospital-based Toronto refugee health center, said the government\u2019s plans have shifted dramatically from one week to the next.\u201cThere are a lot of moving parts to coordinate and it\u2019s very hard to plan when you don\u2019t know numbers, you don\u2019t know dates,\u201d he said.\u201cEvery week it seems clearer than the week before, but we can\u2019t say we have absolute clarity yet.\u201dBut both Taylor and Rashid say Canada has the ability to absorb the influx \u2013 though Taylor and expressed concern about the availability of affordable housing in major cities.Taylor said in the end, though, they will be \u201cready anytime\u201d to welcome the newcomers.\u201cWe can make it work \u2013 we will scramble with whatever gets dumped our way because that\u2019s what we do, that\u2019s what the situation demands,\u201d she said.", "tags": ["Canada", "Refugees", "World news", "Americas", "Syria"], "title": "Trudeau greets Syrian refugees as Canada prepares for more arrivals"},{"date": "2015-12-08T21:56:36Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada\u2019s government has launched a long-awaited national inquiry into the murder or disappearance of hundreds of indigenous women, as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau promised a \u201ctotal renewal\u201d of the country\u2019s relationship with its aboriginal population. Speaking to an Assembly of First Nations (AFN) special chiefs gathering in Gatineau, Qu\u00e9bec, the Liberal leader announced that his government had begun the process to create the inquiry into the nearly 1,200 indigenous women and girls who have been murdered or who have gone missing in Canada over the past three decades.Activists, aboriginal leadership and many victims\u2019 families have been calling for a national inquiry for more than five years \u2013 a move which was resisted by Trudeau\u2019s conservative predecessor, Stephen Harper.\u201cThe victims deserve justice, their families an opportunity to heal and to be heard,\u201d said Trudeau. \u201cWe must work together to put an end to this ongoing tragedy.\u201dJustice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould said that over the next two months the government will consult victims\u2019 families and Aboriginal leaders to gather their views on the design, scope and parameters of the full inquiry, expected to begin sometime next spring.\u201cNo inquiry can undo what happened nor can it restore what was lost, but it can help us find a way forward,\u201d she said.Claudette Commanda, an Algonquin First Nations member and activist who was invited to Tuesday\u2019s announcement, called it a \u201chistorical event\u201d.\u201cIt is time to hear their voices, it is time for justice,\u201d she said.The first phase will also include an online component with background information, a survey and discussion guide accessible to all Canadians.  Related: CBC's racist comment sections spark debate on Canada's prejudice problem Indigenous women make up just 4% of Canada\u2019s female population but 16% of all women murdered in the country. First Nations, Inuit and Metis women are three times more likely to report experiencing violence.Indigenous affairs minister Carolyn Bennett said the national inquiry will \u201ctake as long as it takes to get it right\u201d and that no official budget has yet been set.The Liberals had pledged $40m over two years in their campaign platform for the project.Bennett said the end goal of the inquiry \u201cis to be able to find concrete action that will be able to stop this national tragedy\u201d.But Mag Cywink, whose sister Sonya was killed in 1994, said she wanted to see the government take action. \u201cAn inquiry can never bring my sister back. I just don\u2019t want this to happen to my nieces, to my grandchildren and great-grandchildren,\u201d she said.Cywink also wants all levels of government to look at past inquiries \u2013 the 1996, 4,000-page Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples, the 2012 British Columbia Missing Women Commission of Inquiry, the recent Truth and Reconciliation report, and work by grassroots organizations \u2013 and to begin implementing the hundreds or recommendations already put forward but never applied.\u201cA lot of the homework has already been done, a lot of the answers are out there, a lot of the questions have been answered about what\u2019s wrong and what\u2019s causing these kinds of problems,\u201d she said.Trudeau, whose landslide victory in October was helped in part by a record number of First Nations voters, promised earlier on Tuesday to reset the country\u2019s relationship with Canada\u2019s 1.4 million indigenous peoples.Speaking to an Assembly of First Nations (AFN) special chiefs gathering in Gatineau, Qu\u00e9bec, the Liberal leader said his government would work to develop a new kind of relationship: \u201cOne that understands that constitutionally guaranteed rights are not an inconvenience but a sacred obligation, one based on recognition of rights, respect, cooperation and partnership.\u201dTrudeau has made big promises on the Aboriginal file on everything from water and housing to education, funding and infrastructure \u2013 pledges that, if implemented, will help address issues like rampant poverty and homelessness that make aboriginal women more vulnerable to deadly violence.The high expectations from the AFN and its members were on display Tuesday morning.\u201cYou have made a great start in changing the narrative, prime minister. You have reached out your hand as a treaty partner in a respectful way,\u201d said AFN national chief Perry Bellegarde in his morning address.\u201cWe are hopeful, we are optimistic, let\u2019s get to work.\u201d ", "tags": ["Canada", "Indigenous peoples", "Justin Trudeau", "Quebec", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada launches inquiry into murdered and missing indigenous women"},{"date": "2015-11-19T12:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada\u2019s long-awaited national inquiry into the disappearance or murder of nearly 1,200 indigenous women will look radically different from previous attempts to grapple with shocking levels of violence against aboriginal women, according to the country\u2019s new federal indigenous affairs minister.In an interview with the Guardian, Carolyn Bennett said that victims\u2019 families will play a key role in the inquiry, which could also include elements of aboriginal ceremony and culture.Bennett said whoever is picked to head the inquiry will also need to \u201cbe able to be creative and innovative in the way this commission takes place\u201d.\u201cI heard from enough families that if it\u2019s a very court-like procedure, a very judicial atmosphere, it may not work for them,\u201d she said. \u201cSome say specifically they don\u2019t want it to look like inquiries of the past.\u201d Related: Unsolved murders of indigenous women reflect Canada's history of silence A total of 1,181 indigenous women and girls have been murdered or have disappeared in suspicious circumstances over the past 30 years. In June, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) concluded that First Nations women are four times more likely to go missing or be murdered than other Canadian women are.But previous efforts to investigate violence against indigenous women \u2013 including several RCMP studies, a 1996 Royal Commission and a 2012 commission in British Columbia \u2013 have been ignored by federal governments and faced criticism for failing to include the victims\u2019 families. Bernadette Smith, whose sister Claudette Osborne-Tyo has been missing since 2008, said: \u201cFamilies were excluded, lawyers got rich, pockets got lined, lots of recommendations were made, [but] how many of them were actually implemented? Not very many. There are still women dying out there.\u201d Victims\u2019 families \u2013 as well as Indigenous activists, the United Nations and human rights groups \u2013 have long called for a national inquiry, but were rebuffed by the Conservative government of former prime minister Stephen Harper. Harper\u2019s Liberal successor, Justin Trudeau, who won a landslide victory last month, has made the national inquiry a priority, setting aside a budget of CDN$40m over two years.The Liberal government has also promised to boost funding for education, housing, and infrastructure in the First Nations and to implement all 94 recommendations in a report by the country\u2019s Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which concluded that Canada had pursued a policy of \u201ccultural genocide\u201d against its aboriginal population.The pledges have been met with an equal measure of optimism and skepticism. \u201cIt is a huge, huge responsibility for us to actually be able to get on with the reconciliation that is required,\u201d said Bennett.The gap in the standard of living between indigenous and non-indigenous Canadians remains large. Poverty, incarceration, and suicide rates are higher among aboriginal people, while life expectancy is lower. Indigenous education and housing are in crisis; in more than 90 of the country\u2019s 634 First Nations, tap water is unsafe to drink without boiling.The gravity of the situation means that the inquiry must also be accompanied by immediate action, said Dawn Lavell-Harvard, president of the Native Women\u2019s Association of Canada.\u201cIf there\u2019s a fire in the house, you don\u2019t sit there saying we\u2019re going to wait until the fire commissioner comes,\u201d she said.Bernadette Smith cautioned that many recommendations from previous inquiries still need to be fully implemented, including improvements to housing and education, rehabilitation programs for aboriginal men who commit violence and better policing.But while Smith is skeptical about the latest inquiry, she said she still hopes it will highlight the root causes behind the violence against indigenous women.\u201cI think it will shed light on the fact our people are looked at as less than [non-indigenous] Canadians,\u201d she said.Smith and other activists said that for the inquiry to succeed, victims\u2019 families must be given the necessary support to participate fully \u2013 including funding for those traveling from remote reserves.Activists also say that it is crucial that the inquiry actively sets out to portray the missing and murdered women as human beings \u2013 not simply names on a list. The government is expected to launch a pre-consultation on the inquiry in the coming weeks and hopes to launch the full inquiry by the summer of 2016.Bennett said that getting the inquiry right \u201cmeans everything\u201d.\u201cWe can\u2019t let the families down again.\u201d", "tags": ["Canada", "Indigenous peoples", "Americas", "World news", "Gender"], "title": "Canada pledges 'innovative' inquiry into violence against indigenous women"},{"date": "2015-11-17T11:30:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Environmental groups are taking the Canadian government to court in an attempt to halt the production of genetically modified salmon eggs, claiming that the process risks a \u201chuge live experiment\u201d with the genetic makeup of all wild Atlantic salmon.A US firm has been granted permission to produce fertile salmon eggs in Canada and ship them to Panama, where they will be grown in the hope that the fish will be given approval for human consumption in the US and Canada. Related: GM salmon's global HQ \u2013 1,500m high in the Panamanian rainforest AquaBounty Technologies, which is based in Massachusetts, insists that its genetically modified fish pose no threat to the environment and will be kept in special disease- and antibiotic-free conditions. The modified fish can grow to the size of wild salmon with 75% less feed, reducing the product\u2019s carbon footprint by up to 25 times, AquaBounty claims.However, environmentalists will head to Canada\u2019s federal court on Tuesday to argue that there is a real risk of mixing between the GM salmon and wild fish and that the Canadian government was wrong to approve the production of the eggs in Prince Edward Island.\u201cThis will potentially be the world\u2019s first genetically modified fish available for human consumption and it\u2019s clear the GM industry wants to get other animal products approved after this,\u201d said Mark Butler, campaigner at the Ecology Action Centre, which is bringing the case alongside the Living Oceans Society.\u201cWe think the measures to avoid mixing with the wild Atlantic salmon are inadequate and once there is genetic contamination the wild salmon is forever changed. It would be a huge live experiment and we wouldn\u2019t know the consequences.\u201dButler said hurricanes, human error or equipment failure could release the GM fish from their land-based hatcheries into the ocean. He added that treatment to ensure the GM salmon cannot reproduce is not always effective.The environmentalists\u2019 court case alleges that the Canadian government breached its own environmental laws by providing AquaBounty with a far wider permit than it was assessed on, potentially opening the way for other companies to produce GM fish eggs in Canada. The lawsuit also states the government did not follow the correct procedures in its approval.AquaBounty has been seeking approval to sell its GM products for consumption in the US since 1995. The company\u2019s chief executive, Ron Stotish, said the court case is \u201ccompletely without merit\u201d.A spokeswoman for Environment Canada, the government\u2019s environmental agency, would not comment on the case. Opposition to genetically modified food endures in many countries, with activists in India this week criticising reported plans to produce GM mustard in the country. ", "tags": ["GM", "Food & drink industry", "Canada", "Business", "US news", "Panama", "World news", "Americas", "Environment"], "title": "Canada sued over approval of genetically modified salmon scheme"},{"date": "2015-11-03T16:00:17Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After almost a decade of deep-right conservatism, Canada\u2019s political landscape experienced a major shift on 19 October with a dramatic come-from-behind national election win by Justin Trudeau\u2019s Liberal party. Trudeau\u2019s Liberals started the 2015 campaign as the third party with only 36 seats and sprinted to a strong majority win with 184 seats \u2013 a novel electoral accomplishment in Canada.Unique, also, was how this was achieved. Trudeau\u2019s commitment to run modest deficits (of $10bn a year for three years) to stimulate the economy through infrastructure spending was a game-changer in the campaign. This was particularly so given aggressive attacks from his political opponents on both the left and right labelling the Liberal leader as fiscally irresponsible.While Canada is hitting the pause button on austerity, the UK chancellor, is on fast-forward. George Osborne\u2019s 2015 spending review will see a further \u00a320bn cut from public spending to achieve balance by 2019, a move which follows a halving of the deficit over the course of the last parliament. Heavyweight economic commentators are coalescing around the view that with interest rates low and unemployment high it\u2019s the right time to invest in public programs and infrastructure. Even the International Monetary Fund says it\u2019s time to open the taps of government spending. Trudeau caught the wave.Canada is no stranger to austerity. The Chretien Liberal government in the 1990s saw finance minister Paul Martin wrestle down massive deficits and the size of the federal public service. The hallmark of Martin\u2019s strategy though was the rejection of across-the-board spending cuts in favour of an evaluation of the relative importance of programmes and services within the fiscal plan. Privatisation and contracting out were in the mix but used sparingly. In 2010, Martin, having retired from politics, was consulted by some European leaders and the then Tory opposition in Britain for advice on some non-inflammatory approaches to deficit cutting, but it is unclear whether his messages had much impact. Austerity under the ousted Conservative government led by Stephen Harper came in the form of a smaller role for the state partly by stepping back from major policy spheres such as public pensions, health, aboriginal policy and climate change. Alongside this, deep tax cuts, including spousal income-splitting and new child benefits all targeted towards wealthy Canadians, in combination with the mantra of balanced budgets, had the desired impact of shrinking available revenues in other programme areas.What can we expect from Trudeau? An increased focus on social policy is expected, with aboriginal issues and income inequality back on the table. There has been an immediate shift from the intensely command-and-control style of the Harper government, starting with much more access for the media and a collaborative approach to working with provincial political leaders. Regional leaders now find themselves invited to join Trudeau in upcoming climate change talks in Paris. This would have been unthinkable under the Harper regime which had directed government tax auditors to target pro-environment charities.There will be some fresh air for a beleaguered public service too, which has seen its diplomatic corps and federal scientists placed under tight gagging orders. In an open letter to the public services, Trudeau said that unlike Harper, who saw public servants as an adversary, \u201cI see a partner. I believe that in order to have a public service that is valued by Canadians, and a source of pride for its members, it must be valued by its government. That begins with \u2013 and necessitates \u2013 respecting the labour rights of public servants, and trusting in their ability to provide effective, independent, and professional services for Canadians.\u201dWe can also expect newly found political support for an ambitious, but nascent, public service reform agenda. Reports indicate the creation of several results teams organised around the PM\u2019s key prioritiesand modelled on delivery teams introduced in Ontario in 2003.These involved a balanced relationship between a central monitoring and challenge function, and line ministries, which maintained the lion\u2019s share of responsibility for delivery. It was highly successful in Ontario and is therefore a helpful incubator for the more challenging effort of driving results through a large and highly dispersed, dispirited, but likely hopeful, public service.", "tags": ["Public services policy", "Society", "Politics", "Canada"], "title": "Canada presses pause on austerity after Justin Trudeau\u2019s election win | Tony Dean"},{"date": "2015-11-29T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was the sight of a beached whale that provided us with a hint that we might soon get up close and personal with one of the planet\u2019s greatest predators. Our party was drifting \u2013 in Zodiac power boats \u2013 over the icy waters of Coningham Bay, on Prince William Island in Canada\u2019s high Arctic \u2013 when the beluga was spotted lying on the shore. A couple of others were seen minutes later. Stripped of their skin and blubber, the beluga carcasses were the leftovers of an Inuit hunting party and they were providing irresistible enticement for another set of locals: two large male polar bears.The pair appeared over a sand dune and lumbered down to take a munch or two of whale before wandering off, clearly having already gorged themselves earlier. One bear \u2013 a huge hill of an animal with white and yellow fur, a battered nose and dainty cottonwool-like ears \u2013 swam to a nearby ice floe, where he sat staring at us. For the next quarter of an hour, he contemplated our tourist-filled boats \u2013 a feast in the making from his perspective. Our pilots kept their engines revved for a quick escape, though the bear was obviously in no mood for action, just a bit of eyeballing.It was a breathtaking encounter: the world\u2019s largest land carnivore posing only a few dozen yards away against a backdrop of misty Arctic wasteland \u2013 though I should stress that polar bears were not the only wonders we witnessed in our trip through the Northwest Passage. We also saw finback whales, narwhals, musk ox, gyrfalcons, Arctic hare, snowy owls, any amount of gulls and a plethora of other seabirds.In any case wildlife is not the high Arctic\u2019s only attraction. The landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and haunting, with islands stripped of any signs of life save for the thinnest strands of vegetation clinging to the gale-swept ground and crumbling Hudson Bay trading stations abandoned decades ago.In the 19th century hundreds of men died here trying to find a northwest passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific, the expedition of Sir John Franklin \u2013 which disappeared in 1845 \u2013 being the grimmest, but by no means only, example. Today global warming is melting the Arctic\u2019s summer ice, and ships with strengthened hulls can sail the passage with ease for several weeks a year. Hence our decision to abandon Europe\u2019s summer to experience this land of ice and snow as it is transformed by climate change at a speed unmatched in any another other region on Earth.Wildlife is not the only attraction: the Arctic landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and hauntingIt was a deeply satisfying but surprisingly busy experience. There were constant lectures and talks and, with the exception of our two-day voyage across Baffin Bay, we had at least one shore trip a day: to Beechey Island, where three of Franklin\u2019s men are buried below bleached wooden grave markers; to Prince Leopold Island, whose soaring cliffs provide sanctuary for tens of thousands of kittiwakes, fulmars and guillemots; and to the Inuit towns of Sisimiut and Pond Inlet.These journeys involved the donning of thermal underwear, woollen shirts and heavy-duty waterproof gear \u2013 which might seem surprising given that temperatures rarely dropped below zero. However if you don\u2019t have proper clothing, long journeys in open Zodiacs, in fierce cutting winds, can seriously chill the blood.It was by no means an arduous holiday. The food on our ship, the Akademik Sergey Vavilov, was lavish; there was a cocktail of the day and a happy hour; a hot tub on deck; and yes, bars of chocolate were left on our newly made beds every evening.My wife Sarah and I did have two main worries before setting off: rough seas and fellow passengers. Among the latter, we feared that a few loud-mouthed rednecks in the ship\u2019s confines might wreck our sanity. Instead we got well-informed, amusing and articulate shipmates. Some were the best-travelled individuals I have ever encountered. Others had spent their savings just to make this journey, to see a land in melting transition. It was a humbling experience.As to the high seas, they didn\u2019t materialise either. From our trip\u2019s starting point at Kangerlussuaq in Greenland, across Baffin Bay\u2019s ice floes and icebergs, into Lancaster Sound and south through Victoria Strait before reaching our 2,000km journey\u2019s end at Cambridge Bay, on Victoria Island, the seas were calm. Even our journey through the Bellot Strait \u2013 which separates the most northerly point of mainland America from Canada\u2019s Arctic islands and is rated one of the world\u2019s most formidable sea passages \u2013 was smooth and restful.Indeed that trip, on a glorious August evening, was especially exhilarating as we cruised through the narrow channel from Atlantic waters to those of the Pacific, towards the setting sun. At one point we could see a lone wolf on the shore watching us. Later a polar bear swam across our bows. And that is not your everyday holiday experience.Robin McKie travelled with One Ocean Expeditions on a 12-night Classic Northwest Passage voyage. Prices start from \u00a36,850 per person sharing a twin cabin including meals and accommodation on board, Zodiac excursions, ship transfers and foul weather gear. Return flights are \u00a3783 from Ottawa to Kangerlussuaq and Cambridge Bay to Edmonton (oneoceanexpeditions.com)", "tags": ["Arctic holidays", "Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Northwest Passage, Canada: going with the floe"},{"date": "2015-12-11T14:06:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hamid Osman has some advice for the Syrian refugee family who will soon be resettled in Whitehorse, the Yukon capital about 211 miles (340km) north of Juneau, Alaska. Related: Justin Trudeau greets Syrian refugees arriving in Canada \u201cWinter is something you have to get ready for \u2013 you need a good coat and good shoes,\u201d he said in a telephone call from Inuvik, in the Northwest Territories, where he is a member of the world\u2019s northernmost mosque.Living in the land of the midnight sun, where daylight lasts up to 20 hours in summer, can also pose an extra challenge for Muslims fasting during monthlong Ramadan, he warned.\u201cIt\u2019s 24 hours daylight here \u2013 you can\u2019t fast the whole month. Either they\u2019ll have to follow their hometown hours or Mecca,\u201d he said.Of the more than 75 Canadian communities that will open their doors to 25,000 Syrian refugees in the coming weeks, Whitehorse is among the most far flung.Across Canada, government departments, NGOs and local groups are scrambling to lay the groundwork for the country\u2019s most ambitious refugee resettlement programme since the Vietnam war.The first refugee flight landed in Toronto on Thursday afternoon, where they were greeted by the prime minister, Justin Trudeau. A second flight is scheduled to land in Montreal on Saturday.\u201cThis is a wonderful night, where we get to show not just a planeload of new Canadians what Canada is all about, we get to show the world how to open our hearts and welcome in people who are fleeing extraordinarily difficult situations,\u201d Trudeau said earlier to staff and volunteers who were waiting to process the refugees.After his landslide electoral victory in October, Trudeau repeated a campaign pledge to resettle 25,000 refugees by 31 December. In late November, the Liberals admitted they would fail to meet the target, saying they will bring in 10,000 mostly private-sponsored refugees by the year\u2019s end and another 15,000 government-sponsored refugees by 29 February. A further 10,000 government-sponsored Syrian refugees will arrive over the course of 2016.Even with the delay, it is an unprecedented number to be brought in on such a short timeline, dwarfing the influx of 5,000 Kosovars who fled to Canada in 1999. Related: Canada's Vietnamese community lends helping hand to Syrian refugees But volunteer groups say they are ready to welcome them. Raquel de Queiroz, 33, the director of Yukon Cares \u2013 a group of Whitehorse residents privately sponsoring the family of 10 \u2013 said she was galvanized to offer help by the photographs of drowned toddler Alan Kurdi, whose body washed up on a Turkish beach in September.In three months, Yukon Cares raised $46,000 to sponsor the Syrian family and help them with food, rent, clothing and furniture in Canada. They will be responsible for shepherding the family through the healthcare system and enrolling them in school and language courses.\u201cWe have a small Arabic community, Muslim community. We even have a Syrian in town who\u2019s very on board with helping out as much as he can,\u201d she said.\u201cWe\u2019ll do our best to make them feel welcomed. And they will be safe here.\u201dFor now, De Queiroz and her group know little about the family they will be bringing in beyond their names, ages and the fact that they are Syrian Sunnis who have been living in Lebanon and who speak no English. Their arrival date has not yet been confirmed.The government\u2019s most recent figures show that 1,537 permanent resident visas have so far been issued and almost 12,538 refugee applications are currently being processed.United Nations High Commission for Refugee officials, who are assisting with the resettlement plans, recently told reporters they were having difficulty finding refugees ready or willing to come to Canada on such short notice.Part of getting ready is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so trueAngela Keller-Herzog, with the volunteer-run Ottawa Centre Refugee Action, said her group is ready to sponsor up to 30 refugees through the UNHCR referral program but that just three have been confirmed so far.\u201cWe are saying: \u2018OK, we\u2019re ready, send us some cases,\u2019\u201d she said. \u201cThose case files \u2013 these are just not coming down the pipeline at this moment.\u201dLouisa Taylor, director of Refugee613 in Ottawa, which is helping coordinate resettlement in the nation\u2019s capital, said: \u201cThe demand for refugees far outstrips the supply.\u201dShe added that organizations like hers are \u201cinundated\u201d with donations and offers to help.\u201cPart of getting ready, oddly enough, is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so true,\u201d she said.Meanwhile, as the settlement sector waits for the refugees to begin arriving by the planeload \u2013 more than 400 people will need to arrive every day to meet the December target \u2013 Refugee613 is stretched to maximum capacity.Dr Meb Rashid, medical director at the Crossroads Clinic, a hospital-based Toronto refugee health center, said the government\u2019s plans have shifted dramatically from one week to the next.\u201cThere are a lot of moving parts to coordinate and it\u2019s very hard to plan when you don\u2019t know numbers, you don\u2019t know dates,\u201d he said.\u201cEvery week it seems clearer than the week before, but we can\u2019t say we have absolute clarity yet.\u201dBut both Taylor and Rashid say Canada has the ability to absorb the influx \u2013 though Taylor and expressed concern about the availability of affordable housing in major cities.Taylor said in the end, though, they will be \u201cready anytime\u201d to welcome the newcomers.\u201cWe can make it work \u2013 we will scramble with whatever gets dumped our way because that\u2019s what we do, that\u2019s what the situation demands,\u201d she said.", "tags": ["Canada", "Refugees", "World news", "Americas", "Syria"], "title": "Trudeau greets Syrian refugees as Canada prepares for more arrivals"},{"date": "2015-12-08T21:56:36Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada\u2019s government has launched a long-awaited national inquiry into the murder or disappearance of hundreds of indigenous women, as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau promised a \u201ctotal renewal\u201d of the country\u2019s relationship with its aboriginal population. Speaking to an Assembly of First Nations (AFN) special chiefs gathering in Gatineau, Qu\u00e9bec, the Liberal leader announced that his government had begun the process to create the inquiry into the nearly 1,200 indigenous women and girls who have been murdered or who have gone missing in Canada over the past three decades.Activists, aboriginal leadership and many victims\u2019 families have been calling for a national inquiry for more than five years \u2013 a move which was resisted by Trudeau\u2019s conservative predecessor, Stephen Harper.\u201cThe victims deserve justice, their families an opportunity to heal and to be heard,\u201d said Trudeau. \u201cWe must work together to put an end to this ongoing tragedy.\u201dJustice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould said that over the next two months the government will consult victims\u2019 families and Aboriginal leaders to gather their views on the design, scope and parameters of the full inquiry, expected to begin sometime next spring.\u201cNo inquiry can undo what happened nor can it restore what was lost, but it can help us find a way forward,\u201d she said.Claudette Commanda, an Algonquin First Nations member and activist who was invited to Tuesday\u2019s announcement, called it a \u201chistorical event\u201d.\u201cIt is time to hear their voices, it is time for justice,\u201d she said.The first phase will also include an online component with background information, a survey and discussion guide accessible to all Canadians.  Related: CBC's racist comment sections spark debate on Canada's prejudice problem Indigenous women make up just 4% of Canada\u2019s female population but 16% of all women murdered in the country. First Nations, Inuit and Metis women are three times more likely to report experiencing violence.Indigenous affairs minister Carolyn Bennett said the national inquiry will \u201ctake as long as it takes to get it right\u201d and that no official budget has yet been set.The Liberals had pledged $40m over two years in their campaign platform for the project.Bennett said the end goal of the inquiry \u201cis to be able to find concrete action that will be able to stop this national tragedy\u201d.But Mag Cywink, whose sister Sonya was killed in 1994, said she wanted to see the government take action. \u201cAn inquiry can never bring my sister back. I just don\u2019t want this to happen to my nieces, to my grandchildren and great-grandchildren,\u201d she said.Cywink also wants all levels of government to look at past inquiries \u2013 the 1996, 4,000-page Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples, the 2012 British Columbia Missing Women Commission of Inquiry, the recent Truth and Reconciliation report, and work by grassroots organizations \u2013 and to begin implementing the hundreds or recommendations already put forward but never applied.\u201cA lot of the homework has already been done, a lot of the answers are out there, a lot of the questions have been answered about what\u2019s wrong and what\u2019s causing these kinds of problems,\u201d she said.Trudeau, whose landslide victory in October was helped in part by a record number of First Nations voters, promised earlier on Tuesday to reset the country\u2019s relationship with Canada\u2019s 1.4 million indigenous peoples.Speaking to an Assembly of First Nations (AFN) special chiefs gathering in Gatineau, Qu\u00e9bec, the Liberal leader said his government would work to develop a new kind of relationship: \u201cOne that understands that constitutionally guaranteed rights are not an inconvenience but a sacred obligation, one based on recognition of rights, respect, cooperation and partnership.\u201dTrudeau has made big promises on the Aboriginal file on everything from water and housing to education, funding and infrastructure \u2013 pledges that, if implemented, will help address issues like rampant poverty and homelessness that make aboriginal women more vulnerable to deadly violence.The high expectations from the AFN and its members were on display Tuesday morning.\u201cYou have made a great start in changing the narrative, prime minister. You have reached out your hand as a treaty partner in a respectful way,\u201d said AFN national chief Perry Bellegarde in his morning address.\u201cWe are hopeful, we are optimistic, let\u2019s get to work.\u201d ", "tags": ["Canada", "Indigenous peoples", "Justin Trudeau", "Quebec", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada launches inquiry into murdered and missing indigenous women"},{"date": "2015-11-19T12:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada\u2019s long-awaited national inquiry into the disappearance or murder of nearly 1,200 indigenous women will look radically different from previous attempts to grapple with shocking levels of violence against aboriginal women, according to the country\u2019s new federal indigenous affairs minister.In an interview with the Guardian, Carolyn Bennett said that victims\u2019 families will play a key role in the inquiry, which could also include elements of aboriginal ceremony and culture.Bennett said whoever is picked to head the inquiry will also need to \u201cbe able to be creative and innovative in the way this commission takes place\u201d.\u201cI heard from enough families that if it\u2019s a very court-like procedure, a very judicial atmosphere, it may not work for them,\u201d she said. \u201cSome say specifically they don\u2019t want it to look like inquiries of the past.\u201d Related: Unsolved murders of indigenous women reflect Canada's history of silence A total of 1,181 indigenous women and girls have been murdered or have disappeared in suspicious circumstances over the past 30 years. In June, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) concluded that First Nations women are four times more likely to go missing or be murdered than other Canadian women are.But previous efforts to investigate violence against indigenous women \u2013 including several RCMP studies, a 1996 Royal Commission and a 2012 commission in British Columbia \u2013 have been ignored by federal governments and faced criticism for failing to include the victims\u2019 families. Bernadette Smith, whose sister Claudette Osborne-Tyo has been missing since 2008, said: \u201cFamilies were excluded, lawyers got rich, pockets got lined, lots of recommendations were made, [but] how many of them were actually implemented? Not very many. There are still women dying out there.\u201d Victims\u2019 families \u2013 as well as Indigenous activists, the United Nations and human rights groups \u2013 have long called for a national inquiry, but were rebuffed by the Conservative government of former prime minister Stephen Harper. Harper\u2019s Liberal successor, Justin Trudeau, who won a landslide victory last month, has made the national inquiry a priority, setting aside a budget of CDN$40m over two years.The Liberal government has also promised to boost funding for education, housing, and infrastructure in the First Nations and to implement all 94 recommendations in a report by the country\u2019s Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which concluded that Canada had pursued a policy of \u201ccultural genocide\u201d against its aboriginal population.The pledges have been met with an equal measure of optimism and skepticism. \u201cIt is a huge, huge responsibility for us to actually be able to get on with the reconciliation that is required,\u201d said Bennett.The gap in the standard of living between indigenous and non-indigenous Canadians remains large. Poverty, incarceration, and suicide rates are higher among aboriginal people, while life expectancy is lower. Indigenous education and housing are in crisis; in more than 90 of the country\u2019s 634 First Nations, tap water is unsafe to drink without boiling.The gravity of the situation means that the inquiry must also be accompanied by immediate action, said Dawn Lavell-Harvard, president of the Native Women\u2019s Association of Canada.\u201cIf there\u2019s a fire in the house, you don\u2019t sit there saying we\u2019re going to wait until the fire commissioner comes,\u201d she said.Bernadette Smith cautioned that many recommendations from previous inquiries still need to be fully implemented, including improvements to housing and education, rehabilitation programs for aboriginal men who commit violence and better policing.But while Smith is skeptical about the latest inquiry, she said she still hopes it will highlight the root causes behind the violence against indigenous women.\u201cI think it will shed light on the fact our people are looked at as less than [non-indigenous] Canadians,\u201d she said.Smith and other activists said that for the inquiry to succeed, victims\u2019 families must be given the necessary support to participate fully \u2013 including funding for those traveling from remote reserves.Activists also say that it is crucial that the inquiry actively sets out to portray the missing and murdered women as human beings \u2013 not simply names on a list. The government is expected to launch a pre-consultation on the inquiry in the coming weeks and hopes to launch the full inquiry by the summer of 2016.Bennett said that getting the inquiry right \u201cmeans everything\u201d.\u201cWe can\u2019t let the families down again.\u201d", "tags": ["Canada", "Indigenous peoples", "Americas", "World news", "Gender"], "title": "Canada pledges 'innovative' inquiry into violence against indigenous women"},{"date": "2015-11-17T11:30:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Environmental groups are taking the Canadian government to court in an attempt to halt the production of genetically modified salmon eggs, claiming that the process risks a \u201chuge live experiment\u201d with the genetic makeup of all wild Atlantic salmon.A US firm has been granted permission to produce fertile salmon eggs in Canada and ship them to Panama, where they will be grown in the hope that the fish will be given approval for human consumption in the US and Canada. Related: GM salmon's global HQ \u2013 1,500m high in the Panamanian rainforest AquaBounty Technologies, which is based in Massachusetts, insists that its genetically modified fish pose no threat to the environment and will be kept in special disease- and antibiotic-free conditions. The modified fish can grow to the size of wild salmon with 75% less feed, reducing the product\u2019s carbon footprint by up to 25 times, AquaBounty claims.However, environmentalists will head to Canada\u2019s federal court on Tuesday to argue that there is a real risk of mixing between the GM salmon and wild fish and that the Canadian government was wrong to approve the production of the eggs in Prince Edward Island.\u201cThis will potentially be the world\u2019s first genetically modified fish available for human consumption and it\u2019s clear the GM industry wants to get other animal products approved after this,\u201d said Mark Butler, campaigner at the Ecology Action Centre, which is bringing the case alongside the Living Oceans Society.\u201cWe think the measures to avoid mixing with the wild Atlantic salmon are inadequate and once there is genetic contamination the wild salmon is forever changed. It would be a huge live experiment and we wouldn\u2019t know the consequences.\u201dButler said hurricanes, human error or equipment failure could release the GM fish from their land-based hatcheries into the ocean. He added that treatment to ensure the GM salmon cannot reproduce is not always effective.The environmentalists\u2019 court case alleges that the Canadian government breached its own environmental laws by providing AquaBounty with a far wider permit than it was assessed on, potentially opening the way for other companies to produce GM fish eggs in Canada. The lawsuit also states the government did not follow the correct procedures in its approval.AquaBounty has been seeking approval to sell its GM products for consumption in the US since 1995. The company\u2019s chief executive, Ron Stotish, said the court case is \u201ccompletely without merit\u201d.A spokeswoman for Environment Canada, the government\u2019s environmental agency, would not comment on the case. Opposition to genetically modified food endures in many countries, with activists in India this week criticising reported plans to produce GM mustard in the country. ", "tags": ["GM", "Food & drink industry", "Canada", "Business", "US news", "Panama", "World news", "Americas", "Environment"], "title": "Canada sued over approval of genetically modified salmon scheme"},{"date": "2015-11-03T16:00:17Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After almost a decade of deep-right conservatism, Canada\u2019s political landscape experienced a major shift on 19 October with a dramatic come-from-behind national election win by Justin Trudeau\u2019s Liberal party. Trudeau\u2019s Liberals started the 2015 campaign as the third party with only 36 seats and sprinted to a strong majority win with 184 seats \u2013 a novel electoral accomplishment in Canada.Unique, also, was how this was achieved. Trudeau\u2019s commitment to run modest deficits (of $10bn a year for three years) to stimulate the economy through infrastructure spending was a game-changer in the campaign. This was particularly so given aggressive attacks from his political opponents on both the left and right labelling the Liberal leader as fiscally irresponsible.While Canada is hitting the pause button on austerity, the UK chancellor, is on fast-forward. George Osborne\u2019s 2015 spending review will see a further \u00a320bn cut from public spending to achieve balance by 2019, a move which follows a halving of the deficit over the course of the last parliament. Heavyweight economic commentators are coalescing around the view that with interest rates low and unemployment high it\u2019s the right time to invest in public programs and infrastructure. Even the International Monetary Fund says it\u2019s time to open the taps of government spending. Trudeau caught the wave.Canada is no stranger to austerity. The Chretien Liberal government in the 1990s saw finance minister Paul Martin wrestle down massive deficits and the size of the federal public service. The hallmark of Martin\u2019s strategy though was the rejection of across-the-board spending cuts in favour of an evaluation of the relative importance of programmes and services within the fiscal plan. Privatisation and contracting out were in the mix but used sparingly. In 2010, Martin, having retired from politics, was consulted by some European leaders and the then Tory opposition in Britain for advice on some non-inflammatory approaches to deficit cutting, but it is unclear whether his messages had much impact. Austerity under the ousted Conservative government led by Stephen Harper came in the form of a smaller role for the state partly by stepping back from major policy spheres such as public pensions, health, aboriginal policy and climate change. Alongside this, deep tax cuts, including spousal income-splitting and new child benefits all targeted towards wealthy Canadians, in combination with the mantra of balanced budgets, had the desired impact of shrinking available revenues in other programme areas.What can we expect from Trudeau? An increased focus on social policy is expected, with aboriginal issues and income inequality back on the table. There has been an immediate shift from the intensely command-and-control style of the Harper government, starting with much more access for the media and a collaborative approach to working with provincial political leaders. Regional leaders now find themselves invited to join Trudeau in upcoming climate change talks in Paris. This would have been unthinkable under the Harper regime which had directed government tax auditors to target pro-environment charities.There will be some fresh air for a beleaguered public service too, which has seen its diplomatic corps and federal scientists placed under tight gagging orders. In an open letter to the public services, Trudeau said that unlike Harper, who saw public servants as an adversary, \u201cI see a partner. I believe that in order to have a public service that is valued by Canadians, and a source of pride for its members, it must be valued by its government. That begins with \u2013 and necessitates \u2013 respecting the labour rights of public servants, and trusting in their ability to provide effective, independent, and professional services for Canadians.\u201dWe can also expect newly found political support for an ambitious, but nascent, public service reform agenda. Reports indicate the creation of several results teams organised around the PM\u2019s key prioritiesand modelled on delivery teams introduced in Ontario in 2003.These involved a balanced relationship between a central monitoring and challenge function, and line ministries, which maintained the lion\u2019s share of responsibility for delivery. It was highly successful in Ontario and is therefore a helpful incubator for the more challenging effort of driving results through a large and highly dispersed, dispirited, but likely hopeful, public service.", "tags": ["Public services policy", "Society", "Politics", "Canada"], "title": "Canada presses pause on austerity after Justin Trudeau\u2019s election win | Tony Dean"},{"date": "2015-11-01T08:59:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Those of us who have opposed George Osborne\u2019s austerity policies throughout can take some comfort from two successive events on either side of the Atlantic. The first was the resounding victory of Trudeau the younger\u2019s Liberal party in Canada on an unashamedly Keynesian, anti-austerity electoral platform. The second has been the way that the chancellor (indeed chancer) of the exchequer received his come-uppance from the House of Lords over his dishonourable programme of drastic reductions in tax credits.First, some background. Hardly anybody can be found these days who will say that they ever thought the Labour party stood a chance of winning under Ed Miliband. Yet David Cameron was sufficiently concerned to call a referendum on our membership of the European Union in order to ward off a threat from Ukip that might well have let Miliband in.It is a direct result of Cameron\u2019s panic about Ukip that he is now wasting everyone\u2019s time preparing for a diversionary British referendum. This is at a time when the European Union is facing an existential crisis over the migration issue and the appalling reaction of extreme rightwing \u2013 indeed neo-fascist \u2013 movements in several European countries: not least, alas, in Germany, whose leaders since the war have worked so hard to avoid any recrudescence of the 1930s.Cameron is asking Angela Merkel for help out of his self-inflicted jam; he ought to be helping her in a migration crisis that threatens dire things \u2013 and not just for her reputation.Warding off Ukip was vital for the Tories, as was the low turnout among the disaffected young. This disaffection was manifested in the election of the anti-austerity Jeremy Corbyn as successor to Miliband. There is, of course, intense speculation about how long Corbyn can stay in place, but his anti-austerity policy has struck a chord, as has shadow chancellor John McDonnell now that he has escaped from the unnecessary bonds of George Osborne\u2019s fiscal charter.Although the government has an unassailable majority in the House of Commons, and the chancellor will no doubt force a heavily revised plan through, it is an interesting moment. Having got away with blue murder with his propaganda that the increase in the budget deficit was caused by the Labour government\u2019s public spending \u2013 of which he had previously approved \u2013 and not by the banking crisis, Osborne has finally discovered that, nauseatingly arrogant though he is, even he cannot walk on water. His reputation for political acumen has been seriously damaged, and it could not have happened to a nicer chancer.The point is that both the austerity policy, and the form it has taken, are the result of political choice. Choosing to impose deflationary measures on an already depressed economy that was just beginning to recover was cavalier, to say the least. And placing some four-fifths of the burden of the austerity programme on public spending cuts was very political indeed.But though this prime minister may talk about \u201cone nation\u201d, and they both go on about helping \u201chard-working families\u201d and the \u201cworking poor\u201d, penalising them is a funny way of doing it. John Le Carr\u00e9 was right, several years ago, to call this \u201cplanned penury\u201d. And Ed Balls was also right to predict, way back in August 2010, that the 2010 budget would have countervailing effects on the recovery Osborne inherited.Before the election Cameron unashamedly promised \u00a38bn of tax cuts while his chancellor was preparing for \u00a312bn of reductions in the welfare budget. Osborne is aiming for a budget surplus not only on day-to-day and year-to-year spending, but also on current and capital (infrastructure!) spending combined. He wants a lower top rate of tax on the backs of people who are struggling.But economists of many persuasions are now pointing out that inequality is having a serious impact on what they call aggregate demand \u2013 ie total spending in the economy \u2013 and, ultimately, economic growth.In his book Capitalism, the Financial Times writer John Plender makes an important point, drawing on an observation by the economist Brian Reading. They note that in the 18th century there was an early version of \u201ctrickle-down\u201d theory, which Ronald Reagan and Mrs Thatcher invoked to justify the redistribution of income in favour of the rich. As Plender writes of the original theory: \u201cIt suffered from the flaw that in a society marked by an uneven distribution of income favouring a numerically small elite, the rich had plenty of spending power to satisfy their desires but not enough buying power to dynamise the economy to its full potential to raise real incomes.\u201dThis is what so may \u201cadvanced\u201d economies are experiencing now. As this year\u2019s United Nations Trade and Development Report points out, the share in total income of the richest households has strongly increased in developed countries, \u201cand these households tend to spend less and save more of their incomes than other households\u201d. The situation calls for a rethinking of economic policy here, in continental Europe, and in the US. Let us hope Justin Trudeau and the Canadian Liberals will show the way. I can hear my old friend the late JK Galbraith \u2013 another enlightened Canadian \u2013 applauding from the grave.", "tags": ["Austerity", "George Osborne", "Justin Trudeau", "Canada", "Economic growth (GDP)", "Economic recovery", "Americas", "World news", "Politics", "Business", "Economics"], "title": "Cameron falters but Canada understands: we need Keynes"},{"date": "2015-11-29T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was the sight of a beached whale that provided us with a hint that we might soon get up close and personal with one of the planet\u2019s greatest predators. Our party was drifting \u2013 in Zodiac power boats \u2013 over the icy waters of Coningham Bay, on Prince William Island in Canada\u2019s high Arctic \u2013 when the beluga was spotted lying on the shore. A couple of others were seen minutes later. Stripped of their skin and blubber, the beluga carcasses were the leftovers of an Inuit hunting party and they were providing irresistible enticement for another set of locals: two large male polar bears.The pair appeared over a sand dune and lumbered down to take a munch or two of whale before wandering off, clearly having already gorged themselves earlier. One bear \u2013 a huge hill of an animal with white and yellow fur, a battered nose and dainty cottonwool-like ears \u2013 swam to a nearby ice floe, where he sat staring at us. For the next quarter of an hour, he contemplated our tourist-filled boats \u2013 a feast in the making from his perspective. Our pilots kept their engines revved for a quick escape, though the bear was obviously in no mood for action, just a bit of eyeballing.It was a breathtaking encounter: the world\u2019s largest land carnivore posing only a few dozen yards away against a backdrop of misty Arctic wasteland \u2013 though I should stress that polar bears were not the only wonders we witnessed in our trip through the Northwest Passage. We also saw finback whales, narwhals, musk ox, gyrfalcons, Arctic hare, snowy owls, any amount of gulls and a plethora of other seabirds.In any case wildlife is not the high Arctic\u2019s only attraction. The landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and haunting, with islands stripped of any signs of life save for the thinnest strands of vegetation clinging to the gale-swept ground and crumbling Hudson Bay trading stations abandoned decades ago.In the 19th century hundreds of men died here trying to find a northwest passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific, the expedition of Sir John Franklin \u2013 which disappeared in 1845 \u2013 being the grimmest, but by no means only, example. Today global warming is melting the Arctic\u2019s summer ice, and ships with strengthened hulls can sail the passage with ease for several weeks a year. Hence our decision to abandon Europe\u2019s summer to experience this land of ice and snow as it is transformed by climate change at a speed unmatched in any another other region on Earth.Wildlife is not the only attraction: the Arctic landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and hauntingIt was a deeply satisfying but surprisingly busy experience. There were constant lectures and talks and, with the exception of our two-day voyage across Baffin Bay, we had at least one shore trip a day: to Beechey Island, where three of Franklin\u2019s men are buried below bleached wooden grave markers; to Prince Leopold Island, whose soaring cliffs provide sanctuary for tens of thousands of kittiwakes, fulmars and guillemots; and to the Inuit towns of Sisimiut and Pond Inlet.These journeys involved the donning of thermal underwear, woollen shirts and heavy-duty waterproof gear \u2013 which might seem surprising given that temperatures rarely dropped below zero. However if you don\u2019t have proper clothing, long journeys in open Zodiacs, in fierce cutting winds, can seriously chill the blood.It was by no means an arduous holiday. The food on our ship, the Akademik Sergey Vavilov, was lavish; there was a cocktail of the day and a happy hour; a hot tub on deck; and yes, bars of chocolate were left on our newly made beds every evening.My wife Sarah and I did have two main worries before setting off: rough seas and fellow passengers. Among the latter, we feared that a few loud-mouthed rednecks in the ship\u2019s confines might wreck our sanity. Instead we got well-informed, amusing and articulate shipmates. Some were the best-travelled individuals I have ever encountered. Others had spent their savings just to make this journey, to see a land in melting transition. It was a humbling experience.As to the high seas, they didn\u2019t materialise either. From our trip\u2019s starting point at Kangerlussuaq in Greenland, across Baffin Bay\u2019s ice floes and icebergs, into Lancaster Sound and south through Victoria Strait before reaching our 2,000km journey\u2019s end at Cambridge Bay, on Victoria Island, the seas were calm. Even our journey through the Bellot Strait \u2013 which separates the most northerly point of mainland America from Canada\u2019s Arctic islands and is rated one of the world\u2019s most formidable sea passages \u2013 was smooth and restful.Indeed that trip, on a glorious August evening, was especially exhilarating as we cruised through the narrow channel from Atlantic waters to those of the Pacific, towards the setting sun. At one point we could see a lone wolf on the shore watching us. Later a polar bear swam across our bows. And that is not your everyday holiday experience.Robin McKie travelled with One Ocean Expeditions on a 12-night Classic Northwest Passage voyage. Prices start from \u00a36,850 per person sharing a twin cabin including meals and accommodation on board, Zodiac excursions, ship transfers and foul weather gear. Return flights are \u00a3783 from Ottawa to Kangerlussuaq and Cambridge Bay to Edmonton (oneoceanexpeditions.com)", "tags": ["Arctic holidays", "Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Northwest Passage, Canada: going with the floe"},{"date": "2015-12-11T14:06:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hamid Osman has some advice for the Syrian refugee family who will soon be resettled in Whitehorse, the Yukon capital about 211 miles (340km) north of Juneau, Alaska. Related: Justin Trudeau greets Syrian refugees arriving in Canada \u201cWinter is something you have to get ready for \u2013 you need a good coat and good shoes,\u201d he said in a telephone call from Inuvik, in the Northwest Territories, where he is a member of the world\u2019s northernmost mosque.Living in the land of the midnight sun, where daylight lasts up to 20 hours in summer, can also pose an extra challenge for Muslims fasting during monthlong Ramadan, he warned.\u201cIt\u2019s 24 hours daylight here \u2013 you can\u2019t fast the whole month. Either they\u2019ll have to follow their hometown hours or Mecca,\u201d he said.Of the more than 75 Canadian communities that will open their doors to 25,000 Syrian refugees in the coming weeks, Whitehorse is among the most far flung.Across Canada, government departments, NGOs and local groups are scrambling to lay the groundwork for the country\u2019s most ambitious refugee resettlement programme since the Vietnam war.The first refugee flight landed in Toronto on Thursday afternoon, where they were greeted by the prime minister, Justin Trudeau. A second flight is scheduled to land in Montreal on Saturday.\u201cThis is a wonderful night, where we get to show not just a planeload of new Canadians what Canada is all about, we get to show the world how to open our hearts and welcome in people who are fleeing extraordinarily difficult situations,\u201d Trudeau said earlier to staff and volunteers who were waiting to process the refugees.After his landslide electoral victory in October, Trudeau repeated a campaign pledge to resettle 25,000 refugees by 31 December. In late November, the Liberals admitted they would fail to meet the target, saying they will bring in 10,000 mostly private-sponsored refugees by the year\u2019s end and another 15,000 government-sponsored refugees by 29 February. A further 10,000 government-sponsored Syrian refugees will arrive over the course of 2016.Even with the delay, it is an unprecedented number to be brought in on such a short timeline, dwarfing the influx of 5,000 Kosovars who fled to Canada in 1999. Related: Canada's Vietnamese community lends helping hand to Syrian refugees But volunteer groups say they are ready to welcome them. Raquel de Queiroz, 33, the director of Yukon Cares \u2013 a group of Whitehorse residents privately sponsoring the family of 10 \u2013 said she was galvanized to offer help by the photographs of drowned toddler Alan Kurdi, whose body washed up on a Turkish beach in September.In three months, Yukon Cares raised $46,000 to sponsor the Syrian family and help them with food, rent, clothing and furniture in Canada. They will be responsible for shepherding the family through the healthcare system and enrolling them in school and language courses.\u201cWe have a small Arabic community, Muslim community. We even have a Syrian in town who\u2019s very on board with helping out as much as he can,\u201d she said.\u201cWe\u2019ll do our best to make them feel welcomed. And they will be safe here.\u201dFor now, De Queiroz and her group know little about the family they will be bringing in beyond their names, ages and the fact that they are Syrian Sunnis who have been living in Lebanon and who speak no English. Their arrival date has not yet been confirmed.The government\u2019s most recent figures show that 1,537 permanent resident visas have so far been issued and almost 12,538 refugee applications are currently being processed.United Nations High Commission for Refugee officials, who are assisting with the resettlement plans, recently told reporters they were having difficulty finding refugees ready or willing to come to Canada on such short notice.Part of getting ready is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so trueAngela Keller-Herzog, with the volunteer-run Ottawa Centre Refugee Action, said her group is ready to sponsor up to 30 refugees through the UNHCR referral program but that just three have been confirmed so far.\u201cWe are saying: \u2018OK, we\u2019re ready, send us some cases,\u2019\u201d she said. \u201cThose case files \u2013 these are just not coming down the pipeline at this moment.\u201dLouisa Taylor, director of Refugee613 in Ottawa, which is helping coordinate resettlement in the nation\u2019s capital, said: \u201cThe demand for refugees far outstrips the supply.\u201dShe added that organizations like hers are \u201cinundated\u201d with donations and offers to help.\u201cPart of getting ready, oddly enough, is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so true,\u201d she said.Meanwhile, as the settlement sector waits for the refugees to begin arriving by the planeload \u2013 more than 400 people will need to arrive every day to meet the December target \u2013 Refugee613 is stretched to maximum capacity.Dr Meb Rashid, medical director at the Crossroads Clinic, a hospital-based Toronto refugee health center, said the government\u2019s plans have shifted dramatically from one week to the next.\u201cThere are a lot of moving parts to coordinate and it\u2019s very hard to plan when you don\u2019t know numbers, you don\u2019t know dates,\u201d he said.\u201cEvery week it seems clearer than the week before, but we can\u2019t say we have absolute clarity yet.\u201dBut both Taylor and Rashid say Canada has the ability to absorb the influx \u2013 though Taylor and expressed concern about the availability of affordable housing in major cities.Taylor said in the end, though, they will be \u201cready anytime\u201d to welcome the newcomers.\u201cWe can make it work \u2013 we will scramble with whatever gets dumped our way because that\u2019s what we do, that\u2019s what the situation demands,\u201d she said.", "tags": ["Canada", "Refugees", "World news", "Americas", "Syria"], "title": "Trudeau greets Syrian refugees as Canada prepares for more arrivals"},{"date": "2015-12-08T21:56:36Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada\u2019s government has launched a long-awaited national inquiry into the murder or disappearance of hundreds of indigenous women, as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau promised a \u201ctotal renewal\u201d of the country\u2019s relationship with its aboriginal population. Speaking to an Assembly of First Nations (AFN) special chiefs gathering in Gatineau, Qu\u00e9bec, the Liberal leader announced that his government had begun the process to create the inquiry into the nearly 1,200 indigenous women and girls who have been murdered or who have gone missing in Canada over the past three decades.Activists, aboriginal leadership and many victims\u2019 families have been calling for a national inquiry for more than five years \u2013 a move which was resisted by Trudeau\u2019s conservative predecessor, Stephen Harper.\u201cThe victims deserve justice, their families an opportunity to heal and to be heard,\u201d said Trudeau. \u201cWe must work together to put an end to this ongoing tragedy.\u201dJustice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould said that over the next two months the government will consult victims\u2019 families and Aboriginal leaders to gather their views on the design, scope and parameters of the full inquiry, expected to begin sometime next spring.\u201cNo inquiry can undo what happened nor can it restore what was lost, but it can help us find a way forward,\u201d she said.Claudette Commanda, an Algonquin First Nations member and activist who was invited to Tuesday\u2019s announcement, called it a \u201chistorical event\u201d.\u201cIt is time to hear their voices, it is time for justice,\u201d she said.The first phase will also include an online component with background information, a survey and discussion guide accessible to all Canadians.  Related: CBC's racist comment sections spark debate on Canada's prejudice problem Indigenous women make up just 4% of Canada\u2019s female population but 16% of all women murdered in the country. First Nations, Inuit and Metis women are three times more likely to report experiencing violence.Indigenous affairs minister Carolyn Bennett said the national inquiry will \u201ctake as long as it takes to get it right\u201d and that no official budget has yet been set.The Liberals had pledged $40m over two years in their campaign platform for the project.Bennett said the end goal of the inquiry \u201cis to be able to find concrete action that will be able to stop this national tragedy\u201d.But Mag Cywink, whose sister Sonya was killed in 1994, said she wanted to see the government take action. \u201cAn inquiry can never bring my sister back. I just don\u2019t want this to happen to my nieces, to my grandchildren and great-grandchildren,\u201d she said.Cywink also wants all levels of government to look at past inquiries \u2013 the 1996, 4,000-page Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples, the 2012 British Columbia Missing Women Commission of Inquiry, the recent Truth and Reconciliation report, and work by grassroots organizations \u2013 and to begin implementing the hundreds or recommendations already put forward but never applied.\u201cA lot of the homework has already been done, a lot of the answers are out there, a lot of the questions have been answered about what\u2019s wrong and what\u2019s causing these kinds of problems,\u201d she said.Trudeau, whose landslide victory in October was helped in part by a record number of First Nations voters, promised earlier on Tuesday to reset the country\u2019s relationship with Canada\u2019s 1.4 million indigenous peoples.Speaking to an Assembly of First Nations (AFN) special chiefs gathering in Gatineau, Qu\u00e9bec, the Liberal leader said his government would work to develop a new kind of relationship: \u201cOne that understands that constitutionally guaranteed rights are not an inconvenience but a sacred obligation, one based on recognition of rights, respect, cooperation and partnership.\u201dTrudeau has made big promises on the Aboriginal file on everything from water and housing to education, funding and infrastructure \u2013 pledges that, if implemented, will help address issues like rampant poverty and homelessness that make aboriginal women more vulnerable to deadly violence.The high expectations from the AFN and its members were on display Tuesday morning.\u201cYou have made a great start in changing the narrative, prime minister. You have reached out your hand as a treaty partner in a respectful way,\u201d said AFN national chief Perry Bellegarde in his morning address.\u201cWe are hopeful, we are optimistic, let\u2019s get to work.\u201d ", "tags": ["Canada", "Indigenous peoples", "Justin Trudeau", "Quebec", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada launches inquiry into murdered and missing indigenous women"},{"date": "2015-11-19T12:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada\u2019s long-awaited national inquiry into the disappearance or murder of nearly 1,200 indigenous women will look radically different from previous attempts to grapple with shocking levels of violence against aboriginal women, according to the country\u2019s new federal indigenous affairs minister.In an interview with the Guardian, Carolyn Bennett said that victims\u2019 families will play a key role in the inquiry, which could also include elements of aboriginal ceremony and culture.Bennett said whoever is picked to head the inquiry will also need to \u201cbe able to be creative and innovative in the way this commission takes place\u201d.\u201cI heard from enough families that if it\u2019s a very court-like procedure, a very judicial atmosphere, it may not work for them,\u201d she said. \u201cSome say specifically they don\u2019t want it to look like inquiries of the past.\u201d Related: Unsolved murders of indigenous women reflect Canada's history of silence A total of 1,181 indigenous women and girls have been murdered or have disappeared in suspicious circumstances over the past 30 years. In June, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) concluded that First Nations women are four times more likely to go missing or be murdered than other Canadian women are.But previous efforts to investigate violence against indigenous women \u2013 including several RCMP studies, a 1996 Royal Commission and a 2012 commission in British Columbia \u2013 have been ignored by federal governments and faced criticism for failing to include the victims\u2019 families. Bernadette Smith, whose sister Claudette Osborne-Tyo has been missing since 2008, said: \u201cFamilies were excluded, lawyers got rich, pockets got lined, lots of recommendations were made, [but] how many of them were actually implemented? Not very many. There are still women dying out there.\u201d Victims\u2019 families \u2013 as well as Indigenous activists, the United Nations and human rights groups \u2013 have long called for a national inquiry, but were rebuffed by the Conservative government of former prime minister Stephen Harper. Harper\u2019s Liberal successor, Justin Trudeau, who won a landslide victory last month, has made the national inquiry a priority, setting aside a budget of CDN$40m over two years.The Liberal government has also promised to boost funding for education, housing, and infrastructure in the First Nations and to implement all 94 recommendations in a report by the country\u2019s Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which concluded that Canada had pursued a policy of \u201ccultural genocide\u201d against its aboriginal population.The pledges have been met with an equal measure of optimism and skepticism. \u201cIt is a huge, huge responsibility for us to actually be able to get on with the reconciliation that is required,\u201d said Bennett.The gap in the standard of living between indigenous and non-indigenous Canadians remains large. Poverty, incarceration, and suicide rates are higher among aboriginal people, while life expectancy is lower. Indigenous education and housing are in crisis; in more than 90 of the country\u2019s 634 First Nations, tap water is unsafe to drink without boiling.The gravity of the situation means that the inquiry must also be accompanied by immediate action, said Dawn Lavell-Harvard, president of the Native Women\u2019s Association of Canada.\u201cIf there\u2019s a fire in the house, you don\u2019t sit there saying we\u2019re going to wait until the fire commissioner comes,\u201d she said.Bernadette Smith cautioned that many recommendations from previous inquiries still need to be fully implemented, including improvements to housing and education, rehabilitation programs for aboriginal men who commit violence and better policing.But while Smith is skeptical about the latest inquiry, she said she still hopes it will highlight the root causes behind the violence against indigenous women.\u201cI think it will shed light on the fact our people are looked at as less than [non-indigenous] Canadians,\u201d she said.Smith and other activists said that for the inquiry to succeed, victims\u2019 families must be given the necessary support to participate fully \u2013 including funding for those traveling from remote reserves.Activists also say that it is crucial that the inquiry actively sets out to portray the missing and murdered women as human beings \u2013 not simply names on a list. The government is expected to launch a pre-consultation on the inquiry in the coming weeks and hopes to launch the full inquiry by the summer of 2016.Bennett said that getting the inquiry right \u201cmeans everything\u201d.\u201cWe can\u2019t let the families down again.\u201d", "tags": ["Canada", "Indigenous peoples", "Americas", "World news", "Gender"], "title": "Canada pledges 'innovative' inquiry into violence against indigenous women"},{"date": "2015-11-17T11:30:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Environmental groups are taking the Canadian government to court in an attempt to halt the production of genetically modified salmon eggs, claiming that the process risks a \u201chuge live experiment\u201d with the genetic makeup of all wild Atlantic salmon.A US firm has been granted permission to produce fertile salmon eggs in Canada and ship them to Panama, where they will be grown in the hope that the fish will be given approval for human consumption in the US and Canada. Related: GM salmon's global HQ \u2013 1,500m high in the Panamanian rainforest AquaBounty Technologies, which is based in Massachusetts, insists that its genetically modified fish pose no threat to the environment and will be kept in special disease- and antibiotic-free conditions. The modified fish can grow to the size of wild salmon with 75% less feed, reducing the product\u2019s carbon footprint by up to 25 times, AquaBounty claims.However, environmentalists will head to Canada\u2019s federal court on Tuesday to argue that there is a real risk of mixing between the GM salmon and wild fish and that the Canadian government was wrong to approve the production of the eggs in Prince Edward Island.\u201cThis will potentially be the world\u2019s first genetically modified fish available for human consumption and it\u2019s clear the GM industry wants to get other animal products approved after this,\u201d said Mark Butler, campaigner at the Ecology Action Centre, which is bringing the case alongside the Living Oceans Society.\u201cWe think the measures to avoid mixing with the wild Atlantic salmon are inadequate and once there is genetic contamination the wild salmon is forever changed. It would be a huge live experiment and we wouldn\u2019t know the consequences.\u201dButler said hurricanes, human error or equipment failure could release the GM fish from their land-based hatcheries into the ocean. He added that treatment to ensure the GM salmon cannot reproduce is not always effective.The environmentalists\u2019 court case alleges that the Canadian government breached its own environmental laws by providing AquaBounty with a far wider permit than it was assessed on, potentially opening the way for other companies to produce GM fish eggs in Canada. The lawsuit also states the government did not follow the correct procedures in its approval.AquaBounty has been seeking approval to sell its GM products for consumption in the US since 1995. The company\u2019s chief executive, Ron Stotish, said the court case is \u201ccompletely without merit\u201d.A spokeswoman for Environment Canada, the government\u2019s environmental agency, would not comment on the case. Opposition to genetically modified food endures in many countries, with activists in India this week criticising reported plans to produce GM mustard in the country. ", "tags": ["GM", "Food & drink industry", "Canada", "Business", "US news", "Panama", "World news", "Americas", "Environment"], "title": "Canada sued over approval of genetically modified salmon scheme"},{"date": "2015-11-03T16:00:17Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After almost a decade of deep-right conservatism, Canada\u2019s political landscape experienced a major shift on 19 October with a dramatic come-from-behind national election win by Justin Trudeau\u2019s Liberal party. Trudeau\u2019s Liberals started the 2015 campaign as the third party with only 36 seats and sprinted to a strong majority win with 184 seats \u2013 a novel electoral accomplishment in Canada.Unique, also, was how this was achieved. Trudeau\u2019s commitment to run modest deficits (of $10bn a year for three years) to stimulate the economy through infrastructure spending was a game-changer in the campaign. This was particularly so given aggressive attacks from his political opponents on both the left and right labelling the Liberal leader as fiscally irresponsible.While Canada is hitting the pause button on austerity, the UK chancellor, is on fast-forward. George Osborne\u2019s 2015 spending review will see a further \u00a320bn cut from public spending to achieve balance by 2019, a move which follows a halving of the deficit over the course of the last parliament. Heavyweight economic commentators are coalescing around the view that with interest rates low and unemployment high it\u2019s the right time to invest in public programs and infrastructure. Even the International Monetary Fund says it\u2019s time to open the taps of government spending. Trudeau caught the wave.Canada is no stranger to austerity. The Chretien Liberal government in the 1990s saw finance minister Paul Martin wrestle down massive deficits and the size of the federal public service. The hallmark of Martin\u2019s strategy though was the rejection of across-the-board spending cuts in favour of an evaluation of the relative importance of programmes and services within the fiscal plan. Privatisation and contracting out were in the mix but used sparingly. In 2010, Martin, having retired from politics, was consulted by some European leaders and the then Tory opposition in Britain for advice on some non-inflammatory approaches to deficit cutting, but it is unclear whether his messages had much impact. Austerity under the ousted Conservative government led by Stephen Harper came in the form of a smaller role for the state partly by stepping back from major policy spheres such as public pensions, health, aboriginal policy and climate change. Alongside this, deep tax cuts, including spousal income-splitting and new child benefits all targeted towards wealthy Canadians, in combination with the mantra of balanced budgets, had the desired impact of shrinking available revenues in other programme areas.What can we expect from Trudeau? An increased focus on social policy is expected, with aboriginal issues and income inequality back on the table. There has been an immediate shift from the intensely command-and-control style of the Harper government, starting with much more access for the media and a collaborative approach to working with provincial political leaders. Regional leaders now find themselves invited to join Trudeau in upcoming climate change talks in Paris. This would have been unthinkable under the Harper regime which had directed government tax auditors to target pro-environment charities.There will be some fresh air for a beleaguered public service too, which has seen its diplomatic corps and federal scientists placed under tight gagging orders. In an open letter to the public services, Trudeau said that unlike Harper, who saw public servants as an adversary, \u201cI see a partner. I believe that in order to have a public service that is valued by Canadians, and a source of pride for its members, it must be valued by its government. That begins with \u2013 and necessitates \u2013 respecting the labour rights of public servants, and trusting in their ability to provide effective, independent, and professional services for Canadians.\u201dWe can also expect newly found political support for an ambitious, but nascent, public service reform agenda. Reports indicate the creation of several results teams organised around the PM\u2019s key prioritiesand modelled on delivery teams introduced in Ontario in 2003.These involved a balanced relationship between a central monitoring and challenge function, and line ministries, which maintained the lion\u2019s share of responsibility for delivery. It was highly successful in Ontario and is therefore a helpful incubator for the more challenging effort of driving results through a large and highly dispersed, dispirited, but likely hopeful, public service.", "tags": ["Public services policy", "Society", "Politics", "Canada"], "title": "Canada presses pause on austerity after Justin Trudeau\u2019s election win | Tony Dean"},{"date": "2015-11-01T08:59:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Those of us who have opposed George Osborne\u2019s austerity policies throughout can take some comfort from two successive events on either side of the Atlantic. The first was the resounding victory of Trudeau the younger\u2019s Liberal party in Canada on an unashamedly Keynesian, anti-austerity electoral platform. The second has been the way that the chancellor (indeed chancer) of the exchequer received his come-uppance from the House of Lords over his dishonourable programme of drastic reductions in tax credits.First, some background. Hardly anybody can be found these days who will say that they ever thought the Labour party stood a chance of winning under Ed Miliband. Yet David Cameron was sufficiently concerned to call a referendum on our membership of the European Union in order to ward off a threat from Ukip that might well have let Miliband in.It is a direct result of Cameron\u2019s panic about Ukip that he is now wasting everyone\u2019s time preparing for a diversionary British referendum. This is at a time when the European Union is facing an existential crisis over the migration issue and the appalling reaction of extreme rightwing \u2013 indeed neo-fascist \u2013 movements in several European countries: not least, alas, in Germany, whose leaders since the war have worked so hard to avoid any recrudescence of the 1930s.Cameron is asking Angela Merkel for help out of his self-inflicted jam; he ought to be helping her in a migration crisis that threatens dire things \u2013 and not just for her reputation.Warding off Ukip was vital for the Tories, as was the low turnout among the disaffected young. This disaffection was manifested in the election of the anti-austerity Jeremy Corbyn as successor to Miliband. There is, of course, intense speculation about how long Corbyn can stay in place, but his anti-austerity policy has struck a chord, as has shadow chancellor John McDonnell now that he has escaped from the unnecessary bonds of George Osborne\u2019s fiscal charter.Although the government has an unassailable majority in the House of Commons, and the chancellor will no doubt force a heavily revised plan through, it is an interesting moment. Having got away with blue murder with his propaganda that the increase in the budget deficit was caused by the Labour government\u2019s public spending \u2013 of which he had previously approved \u2013 and not by the banking crisis, Osborne has finally discovered that, nauseatingly arrogant though he is, even he cannot walk on water. His reputation for political acumen has been seriously damaged, and it could not have happened to a nicer chancer.The point is that both the austerity policy, and the form it has taken, are the result of political choice. Choosing to impose deflationary measures on an already depressed economy that was just beginning to recover was cavalier, to say the least. And placing some four-fifths of the burden of the austerity programme on public spending cuts was very political indeed.But though this prime minister may talk about \u201cone nation\u201d, and they both go on about helping \u201chard-working families\u201d and the \u201cworking poor\u201d, penalising them is a funny way of doing it. John Le Carr\u00e9 was right, several years ago, to call this \u201cplanned penury\u201d. And Ed Balls was also right to predict, way back in August 2010, that the 2010 budget would have countervailing effects on the recovery Osborne inherited.Before the election Cameron unashamedly promised \u00a38bn of tax cuts while his chancellor was preparing for \u00a312bn of reductions in the welfare budget. Osborne is aiming for a budget surplus not only on day-to-day and year-to-year spending, but also on current and capital (infrastructure!) spending combined. He wants a lower top rate of tax on the backs of people who are struggling.But economists of many persuasions are now pointing out that inequality is having a serious impact on what they call aggregate demand \u2013 ie total spending in the economy \u2013 and, ultimately, economic growth.In his book Capitalism, the Financial Times writer John Plender makes an important point, drawing on an observation by the economist Brian Reading. They note that in the 18th century there was an early version of \u201ctrickle-down\u201d theory, which Ronald Reagan and Mrs Thatcher invoked to justify the redistribution of income in favour of the rich. As Plender writes of the original theory: \u201cIt suffered from the flaw that in a society marked by an uneven distribution of income favouring a numerically small elite, the rich had plenty of spending power to satisfy their desires but not enough buying power to dynamise the economy to its full potential to raise real incomes.\u201dThis is what so may \u201cadvanced\u201d economies are experiencing now. As this year\u2019s United Nations Trade and Development Report points out, the share in total income of the richest households has strongly increased in developed countries, \u201cand these households tend to spend less and save more of their incomes than other households\u201d. The situation calls for a rethinking of economic policy here, in continental Europe, and in the US. Let us hope Justin Trudeau and the Canadian Liberals will show the way. I can hear my old friend the late JK Galbraith \u2013 another enlightened Canadian \u2013 applauding from the grave.", "tags": ["Austerity", "George Osborne", "Justin Trudeau", "Canada", "Economic growth (GDP)", "Economic recovery", "Americas", "World news", "Politics", "Business", "Economics"], "title": "Cameron falters but Canada understands: we need Keynes"},{"date": "2015-10-26T13:24:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Five Britons have died after a whale-watching boat carrying 27 people sank off the coast of Vancouver Island in western Canada, the Foreign Office has confirmed.As darkness forced rescue helicopters, planes and boats to suspend their search until daylight, 21 people had been rescued from the seas off the coast of the popular resort town of Tofino where the 65ft-long (20m) Leviathan II went down on Sunday afternoon. One passenger remains missing.Philip Hammond, the British foreign secretary, said: \u201cIt is with deep sadness that I can confirm five British nationals have lost their lives when the whale-watching boat they were on sank off western Canada on Sunday.\u201d\u201cMy thoughts are with the family and friends of all those affected by this terrible accident. Consular staff in British Columbia are supporting the family members of those who have died and we will remain in close contact with Canadian authorities as further information becomes available.\u201dThe mayor of Tofino described the mood in the town as tense but commended local people for their help in the rescue effort.\u201cEverybody\u2019s heart is just breaking for what\u2019s going on here and wanting to be as helpful as possible,\u201d said Josie Osborne in a telephone interview late on Sunday.The weather had been clear and sunny and it was not clear what had caused the Leviathan II to sink.Tofino fishing guide Lance Desilets said at least 12 rescue boats were already out on the water when he arrived on the scene.\u201cI saw a lot of personal belongings, a long diesel slick and the top 10ft of the Leviathan II sticking out of the water,\u201d Desilets said. \u201cIt\u2019s a sad day for our community and the search and rescue people are doing the best that they can.\u201dJenn Hamilton, a spokeswoman for British Columbia emergency health services, said five ambulances were dispatched and many off-duty paramedics went to the dock at Tofino to help.Valerie Wilson, a spokeswoman for the Vancouver Island health authority, said 18 people were taken to Tofino hospital. All were in a stable condition. Three were later transferred to other hospitals while some others had been discharged.Acting sub-lieutenant Melissa Kai, of the Joint Rescue Coordination Centre in British Columbia, said the rescue operation had finished at 11.10pm local time (0810 GMT). She said: \u201cOf the 27 individuals on the vessel when it sank, 21 were rescued. Five were located without vital signs and one remains missing.\u201d A Royal Canadian Air Force Cormorant rescue helicopter had been at the accident site within 30 minutes of the emergency call, she added, and three coastguard ships had joined other local boats in a rescue attempt. The Leviathan II, which was operated by Jamie\u2019s Whaling Station, had sent out a mayday signal at around 5pm local time, the JRCC said.Boats from the nearby Ahoushat First Nation joined the rescue effort, said aboriginal councillor Tom Campbell. He was on the waterfront and watched as rescue personnel brought several survivors ashore.\u201cTheir looks tell the whole story,\u201d he said by phone from Tofino. \u201cYou can\u2019t describe looks on people that are lost. They look totally lost, shocked and lost.\u201dCampbell said his cousin pulled at least eight people from the water into a rescue boat.Tofino is a fishing village and popular holiday destination famous for its whale watching, surfing and fishing as well as its proximity to natural hot springs and old-growth rainforest.Jamie Bray, the owner of Jamie\u2019s Whaling Station, which operated the sunken vessel, said in a statement posted on its website: \u201cIt has been a tragic day. Our entire team is heartbroken over this incident and our hearts go out to the families, friends and loved ones of everyone involved.\u201cWe are doing everything we can to assist our passengers and staff through this difficult time. We are cooperating with investigators to determine exactly what happened.\u201cIn the meantime, we want to extend our most sincere thank you to the first responders, rescue personnel, and everyone from Tofino and the local First Nations communities who assisted with the response efforts. We will provide further updates when information becomes available.\u201dThese are not the first deaths connected to Jamie\u2019s Whaling Station tours. Two people died in March 1998 when the company\u2019s boat Ocean Thunder was swamped by an unexpected wave in the same waters, Plover Reefs. The swell rolled the boat, throwing all the passengers into the water. One passenger and the operator of the boat drowned.A Transportation Safety Board (TSB) investigation found that the operator \u201cdid not fully appreciate the conditions the boat would meet at the time of the accident in the turbulent waters in the vicinity of reefs\u201d, and also criticised the lack of effective communication equipment, which resulted in a delay in initiating a rescue attempt.An investigation was also launched in 1996, after the Jamie\u2019s Whaling Station craft Sharp Point ran aground while running at full speed after the operator fell asleep at the controls. No one died in the incident, but the operator was treated for head injuries.Justin Trudeau, Canada\u2019s prime minister-designate, said in a statement: \u201cI was shocked and saddened to hear of the sinking of a whale-watching boat near the [British Columbia] coast and the passengers aboard who have lost their lives in the incident. We thank all those, including our search and rescue officials, who responded swiftly with courage and professionalism.\u201cI know firsthand of this coastal area\u2019s natural beauty and the many people who visit here from all around the world. My thoughts and prayers are with the passengers, the crew, and their families at this most difficult time. We will continue to offer them support in the days ahead.\u201d", "tags": ["UK news", "Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Five Britons killed as Canada whale-watching boat sinks"},{"date": "2015-11-29T14:00:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "It was the sight of a beached whale that provided us with a hint that we might soon get up close and personal with one of the planet\u2019s greatest predators. Our party was drifting \u2013 in Zodiac power boats \u2013 over the icy waters of Coningham Bay, on Prince William Island in Canada\u2019s high Arctic \u2013 when the beluga was spotted lying on the shore. A couple of others were seen minutes later. Stripped of their skin and blubber, the beluga carcasses were the leftovers of an Inuit hunting party and they were providing irresistible enticement for another set of locals: two large male polar bears.The pair appeared over a sand dune and lumbered down to take a munch or two of whale before wandering off, clearly having already gorged themselves earlier. One bear \u2013 a huge hill of an animal with white and yellow fur, a battered nose and dainty cottonwool-like ears \u2013 swam to a nearby ice floe, where he sat staring at us. For the next quarter of an hour, he contemplated our tourist-filled boats \u2013 a feast in the making from his perspective. Our pilots kept their engines revved for a quick escape, though the bear was obviously in no mood for action, just a bit of eyeballing.It was a breathtaking encounter: the world\u2019s largest land carnivore posing only a few dozen yards away against a backdrop of misty Arctic wasteland \u2013 though I should stress that polar bears were not the only wonders we witnessed in our trip through the Northwest Passage. We also saw finback whales, narwhals, musk ox, gyrfalcons, Arctic hare, snowy owls, any amount of gulls and a plethora of other seabirds.In any case wildlife is not the high Arctic\u2019s only attraction. The landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and haunting, with islands stripped of any signs of life save for the thinnest strands of vegetation clinging to the gale-swept ground and crumbling Hudson Bay trading stations abandoned decades ago.In the 19th century hundreds of men died here trying to find a northwest passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific, the expedition of Sir John Franklin \u2013 which disappeared in 1845 \u2013 being the grimmest, but by no means only, example. Today global warming is melting the Arctic\u2019s summer ice, and ships with strengthened hulls can sail the passage with ease for several weeks a year. Hence our decision to abandon Europe\u2019s summer to experience this land of ice and snow as it is transformed by climate change at a speed unmatched in any another other region on Earth.Wildlife is not the only attraction: the Arctic landscape alone is worth the trip \u2013 mysterious, bleak and hauntingIt was a deeply satisfying but surprisingly busy experience. There were constant lectures and talks and, with the exception of our two-day voyage across Baffin Bay, we had at least one shore trip a day: to Beechey Island, where three of Franklin\u2019s men are buried below bleached wooden grave markers; to Prince Leopold Island, whose soaring cliffs provide sanctuary for tens of thousands of kittiwakes, fulmars and guillemots; and to the Inuit towns of Sisimiut and Pond Inlet.These journeys involved the donning of thermal underwear, woollen shirts and heavy-duty waterproof gear \u2013 which might seem surprising given that temperatures rarely dropped below zero. However if you don\u2019t have proper clothing, long journeys in open Zodiacs, in fierce cutting winds, can seriously chill the blood.It was by no means an arduous holiday. The food on our ship, the Akademik Sergey Vavilov, was lavish; there was a cocktail of the day and a happy hour; a hot tub on deck; and yes, bars of chocolate were left on our newly made beds every evening.My wife Sarah and I did have two main worries before setting off: rough seas and fellow passengers. Among the latter, we feared that a few loud-mouthed rednecks in the ship\u2019s confines might wreck our sanity. Instead we got well-informed, amusing and articulate shipmates. Some were the best-travelled individuals I have ever encountered. Others had spent their savings just to make this journey, to see a land in melting transition. It was a humbling experience.As to the high seas, they didn\u2019t materialise either. From our trip\u2019s starting point at Kangerlussuaq in Greenland, across Baffin Bay\u2019s ice floes and icebergs, into Lancaster Sound and south through Victoria Strait before reaching our 2,000km journey\u2019s end at Cambridge Bay, on Victoria Island, the seas were calm. Even our journey through the Bellot Strait \u2013 which separates the most northerly point of mainland America from Canada\u2019s Arctic islands and is rated one of the world\u2019s most formidable sea passages \u2013 was smooth and restful.Indeed that trip, on a glorious August evening, was especially exhilarating as we cruised through the narrow channel from Atlantic waters to those of the Pacific, towards the setting sun. At one point we could see a lone wolf on the shore watching us. Later a polar bear swam across our bows. And that is not your everyday holiday experience.Robin McKie travelled with One Ocean Expeditions on a 12-night Classic Northwest Passage voyage. Prices start from \u00a36,850 per person sharing a twin cabin including meals and accommodation on board, Zodiac excursions, ship transfers and foul weather gear. Return flights are \u00a3783 from Ottawa to Kangerlussuaq and Cambridge Bay to Edmonton (oneoceanexpeditions.com)", "tags": ["Arctic holidays", "Canada holidays", "North and Central America holidays", "Travel"], "title": "Northwest Passage, Canada: going with the floe"},{"date": "2015-12-11T14:06:25Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Hamid Osman has some advice for the Syrian refugee family who will soon be resettled in Whitehorse, the Yukon capital about 211 miles (340km) north of Juneau, Alaska. Related: Justin Trudeau greets Syrian refugees arriving in Canada \u201cWinter is something you have to get ready for \u2013 you need a good coat and good shoes,\u201d he said in a telephone call from Inuvik, in the Northwest Territories, where he is a member of the world\u2019s northernmost mosque.Living in the land of the midnight sun, where daylight lasts up to 20 hours in summer, can also pose an extra challenge for Muslims fasting during monthlong Ramadan, he warned.\u201cIt\u2019s 24 hours daylight here \u2013 you can\u2019t fast the whole month. Either they\u2019ll have to follow their hometown hours or Mecca,\u201d he said.Of the more than 75 Canadian communities that will open their doors to 25,000 Syrian refugees in the coming weeks, Whitehorse is among the most far flung.Across Canada, government departments, NGOs and local groups are scrambling to lay the groundwork for the country\u2019s most ambitious refugee resettlement programme since the Vietnam war.The first refugee flight landed in Toronto on Thursday afternoon, where they were greeted by the prime minister, Justin Trudeau. A second flight is scheduled to land in Montreal on Saturday.\u201cThis is a wonderful night, where we get to show not just a planeload of new Canadians what Canada is all about, we get to show the world how to open our hearts and welcome in people who are fleeing extraordinarily difficult situations,\u201d Trudeau said earlier to staff and volunteers who were waiting to process the refugees.After his landslide electoral victory in October, Trudeau repeated a campaign pledge to resettle 25,000 refugees by 31 December. In late November, the Liberals admitted they would fail to meet the target, saying they will bring in 10,000 mostly private-sponsored refugees by the year\u2019s end and another 15,000 government-sponsored refugees by 29 February. A further 10,000 government-sponsored Syrian refugees will arrive over the course of 2016.Even with the delay, it is an unprecedented number to be brought in on such a short timeline, dwarfing the influx of 5,000 Kosovars who fled to Canada in 1999. Related: Canada's Vietnamese community lends helping hand to Syrian refugees But volunteer groups say they are ready to welcome them. Raquel de Queiroz, 33, the director of Yukon Cares \u2013 a group of Whitehorse residents privately sponsoring the family of 10 \u2013 said she was galvanized to offer help by the photographs of drowned toddler Alan Kurdi, whose body washed up on a Turkish beach in September.In three months, Yukon Cares raised $46,000 to sponsor the Syrian family and help them with food, rent, clothing and furniture in Canada. They will be responsible for shepherding the family through the healthcare system and enrolling them in school and language courses.\u201cWe have a small Arabic community, Muslim community. We even have a Syrian in town who\u2019s very on board with helping out as much as he can,\u201d she said.\u201cWe\u2019ll do our best to make them feel welcomed. And they will be safe here.\u201dFor now, De Queiroz and her group know little about the family they will be bringing in beyond their names, ages and the fact that they are Syrian Sunnis who have been living in Lebanon and who speak no English. Their arrival date has not yet been confirmed.The government\u2019s most recent figures show that 1,537 permanent resident visas have so far been issued and almost 12,538 refugee applications are currently being processed.United Nations High Commission for Refugee officials, who are assisting with the resettlement plans, recently told reporters they were having difficulty finding refugees ready or willing to come to Canada on such short notice.Part of getting ready is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so trueAngela Keller-Herzog, with the volunteer-run Ottawa Centre Refugee Action, said her group is ready to sponsor up to 30 refugees through the UNHCR referral program but that just three have been confirmed so far.\u201cWe are saying: \u2018OK, we\u2019re ready, send us some cases,\u2019\u201d she said. \u201cThose case files \u2013 these are just not coming down the pipeline at this moment.\u201dLouisa Taylor, director of Refugee613 in Ottawa, which is helping coordinate resettlement in the nation\u2019s capital, said: \u201cThe demand for refugees far outstrips the supply.\u201dShe added that organizations like hers are \u201cinundated\u201d with donations and offers to help.\u201cPart of getting ready, oddly enough, is managing the incredible generosity of Canadians. It sounds so ungrateful, but it\u2019s so true,\u201d she said.Meanwhile, as the settlement sector waits for the refugees to begin arriving by the planeload \u2013 more than 400 people will need to arrive every day to meet the December target \u2013 Refugee613 is stretched to maximum capacity.Dr Meb Rashid, medical director at the Crossroads Clinic, a hospital-based Toronto refugee health center, said the government\u2019s plans have shifted dramatically from one week to the next.\u201cThere are a lot of moving parts to coordinate and it\u2019s very hard to plan when you don\u2019t know numbers, you don\u2019t know dates,\u201d he said.\u201cEvery week it seems clearer than the week before, but we can\u2019t say we have absolute clarity yet.\u201dBut both Taylor and Rashid say Canada has the ability to absorb the influx \u2013 though Taylor and expressed concern about the availability of affordable housing in major cities.Taylor said in the end, though, they will be \u201cready anytime\u201d to welcome the newcomers.\u201cWe can make it work \u2013 we will scramble with whatever gets dumped our way because that\u2019s what we do, that\u2019s what the situation demands,\u201d she said.", "tags": ["Canada", "Refugees", "World news", "Americas", "Syria"], "title": "Trudeau greets Syrian refugees as Canada prepares for more arrivals"},{"date": "2015-12-08T21:56:36Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada\u2019s government has launched a long-awaited national inquiry into the murder or disappearance of hundreds of indigenous women, as Prime Minister Justin Trudeau promised a \u201ctotal renewal\u201d of the country\u2019s relationship with its aboriginal population. Speaking to an Assembly of First Nations (AFN) special chiefs gathering in Gatineau, Qu\u00e9bec, the Liberal leader announced that his government had begun the process to create the inquiry into the nearly 1,200 indigenous women and girls who have been murdered or who have gone missing in Canada over the past three decades.Activists, aboriginal leadership and many victims\u2019 families have been calling for a national inquiry for more than five years \u2013 a move which was resisted by Trudeau\u2019s conservative predecessor, Stephen Harper.\u201cThe victims deserve justice, their families an opportunity to heal and to be heard,\u201d said Trudeau. \u201cWe must work together to put an end to this ongoing tragedy.\u201dJustice Minister Jody Wilson-Raybould said that over the next two months the government will consult victims\u2019 families and Aboriginal leaders to gather their views on the design, scope and parameters of the full inquiry, expected to begin sometime next spring.\u201cNo inquiry can undo what happened nor can it restore what was lost, but it can help us find a way forward,\u201d she said.Claudette Commanda, an Algonquin First Nations member and activist who was invited to Tuesday\u2019s announcement, called it a \u201chistorical event\u201d.\u201cIt is time to hear their voices, it is time for justice,\u201d she said.The first phase will also include an online component with background information, a survey and discussion guide accessible to all Canadians.  Related: CBC's racist comment sections spark debate on Canada's prejudice problem Indigenous women make up just 4% of Canada\u2019s female population but 16% of all women murdered in the country. First Nations, Inuit and Metis women are three times more likely to report experiencing violence.Indigenous affairs minister Carolyn Bennett said the national inquiry will \u201ctake as long as it takes to get it right\u201d and that no official budget has yet been set.The Liberals had pledged $40m over two years in their campaign platform for the project.Bennett said the end goal of the inquiry \u201cis to be able to find concrete action that will be able to stop this national tragedy\u201d.But Mag Cywink, whose sister Sonya was killed in 1994, said she wanted to see the government take action. \u201cAn inquiry can never bring my sister back. I just don\u2019t want this to happen to my nieces, to my grandchildren and great-grandchildren,\u201d she said.Cywink also wants all levels of government to look at past inquiries \u2013 the 1996, 4,000-page Royal Commission on Aboriginal Peoples, the 2012 British Columbia Missing Women Commission of Inquiry, the recent Truth and Reconciliation report, and work by grassroots organizations \u2013 and to begin implementing the hundreds or recommendations already put forward but never applied.\u201cA lot of the homework has already been done, a lot of the answers are out there, a lot of the questions have been answered about what\u2019s wrong and what\u2019s causing these kinds of problems,\u201d she said.Trudeau, whose landslide victory in October was helped in part by a record number of First Nations voters, promised earlier on Tuesday to reset the country\u2019s relationship with Canada\u2019s 1.4 million indigenous peoples.Speaking to an Assembly of First Nations (AFN) special chiefs gathering in Gatineau, Qu\u00e9bec, the Liberal leader said his government would work to develop a new kind of relationship: \u201cOne that understands that constitutionally guaranteed rights are not an inconvenience but a sacred obligation, one based on recognition of rights, respect, cooperation and partnership.\u201dTrudeau has made big promises on the Aboriginal file on everything from water and housing to education, funding and infrastructure \u2013 pledges that, if implemented, will help address issues like rampant poverty and homelessness that make aboriginal women more vulnerable to deadly violence.The high expectations from the AFN and its members were on display Tuesday morning.\u201cYou have made a great start in changing the narrative, prime minister. You have reached out your hand as a treaty partner in a respectful way,\u201d said AFN national chief Perry Bellegarde in his morning address.\u201cWe are hopeful, we are optimistic, let\u2019s get to work.\u201d ", "tags": ["Canada", "Indigenous peoples", "Justin Trudeau", "Quebec", "World news", "Americas"], "title": "Canada launches inquiry into murdered and missing indigenous women"},{"date": "2015-11-19T12:00:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Canada\u2019s long-awaited national inquiry into the disappearance or murder of nearly 1,200 indigenous women will look radically different from previous attempts to grapple with shocking levels of violence against aboriginal women, according to the country\u2019s new federal indigenous affairs minister.In an interview with the Guardian, Carolyn Bennett said that victims\u2019 families will play a key role in the inquiry, which could also include elements of aboriginal ceremony and culture.Bennett said whoever is picked to head the inquiry will also need to \u201cbe able to be creative and innovative in the way this commission takes place\u201d.\u201cI heard from enough families that if it\u2019s a very court-like procedure, a very judicial atmosphere, it may not work for them,\u201d she said. \u201cSome say specifically they don\u2019t want it to look like inquiries of the past.\u201d Related: Unsolved murders of indigenous women reflect Canada's history of silence A total of 1,181 indigenous women and girls have been murdered or have disappeared in suspicious circumstances over the past 30 years. In June, the Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) concluded that First Nations women are four times more likely to go missing or be murdered than other Canadian women are.But previous efforts to investigate violence against indigenous women \u2013 including several RCMP studies, a 1996 Royal Commission and a 2012 commission in British Columbia \u2013 have been ignored by federal governments and faced criticism for failing to include the victims\u2019 families. Bernadette Smith, whose sister Claudette Osborne-Tyo has been missing since 2008, said: \u201cFamilies were excluded, lawyers got rich, pockets got lined, lots of recommendations were made, [but] how many of them were actually implemented? Not very many. There are still women dying out there.\u201d Victims\u2019 families \u2013 as well as Indigenous activists, the United Nations and human rights groups \u2013 have long called for a national inquiry, but were rebuffed by the Conservative government of former prime minister Stephen Harper. Harper\u2019s Liberal successor, Justin Trudeau, who won a landslide victory last month, has made the national inquiry a priority, setting aside a budget of CDN$40m over two years.The Liberal government has also promised to boost funding for education, housing, and infrastructure in the First Nations and to implement all 94 recommendations in a report by the country\u2019s Truth and Reconciliation Commission, which concluded that Canada had pursued a policy of \u201ccultural genocide\u201d against its aboriginal population.The pledges have been met with an equal measure of optimism and skepticism. \u201cIt is a huge, huge responsibility for us to actually be able to get on with the reconciliation that is required,\u201d said Bennett.The gap in the standard of living between indigenous and non-indigenous Canadians remains large. Poverty, incarceration, and suicide rates are higher among aboriginal people, while life expectancy is lower. Indigenous education and housing are in crisis; in more than 90 of the country\u2019s 634 First Nations, tap water is unsafe to drink without boiling.The gravity of the situation means that the inquiry must also be accompanied by immediate action, said Dawn Lavell-Harvard, president of the Native Women\u2019s Association of Canada.\u201cIf there\u2019s a fire in the house, you don\u2019t sit there saying we\u2019re going to wait until the fire commissioner comes,\u201d she said.Bernadette Smith cautioned that many recommendations from previous inquiries still need to be fully implemented, including improvements to housing and education, rehabilitation programs for aboriginal men who commit violence and better policing.But while Smith is skeptical about the latest inquiry, she said she still hopes it will highlight the root causes behind the violence against indigenous women.\u201cI think it will shed light on the fact our people are looked at as less than [non-indigenous] Canadians,\u201d she said.Smith and other activists said that for the inquiry to succeed, victims\u2019 families must be given the necessary support to participate fully \u2013 including funding for those traveling from remote reserves.Activists also say that it is crucial that the inquiry actively sets out to portray the missing and murdered women as human beings \u2013 not simply names on a list. The government is expected to launch a pre-consultation on the inquiry in the coming weeks and hopes to launch the full inquiry by the summer of 2016.Bennett said that getting the inquiry right \u201cmeans everything\u201d.\u201cWe can\u2019t let the families down again.\u201d", "tags": ["Canada", "Indigenous peoples", "Americas", "World news", "Gender"], "title": "Canada pledges 'innovative' inquiry into violence against indigenous women"},{"date": "2015-11-17T11:30:02Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Environmental groups are taking the Canadian government to court in an attempt to halt the production of genetically modified salmon eggs, claiming that the process risks a \u201chuge live experiment\u201d with the genetic makeup of all wild Atlantic salmon.A US firm has been granted permission to produce fertile salmon eggs in Canada and ship them to Panama, where they will be grown in the hope that the fish will be given approval for human consumption in the US and Canada. Related: GM salmon's global HQ \u2013 1,500m high in the Panamanian rainforest AquaBounty Technologies, which is based in Massachusetts, insists that its genetically modified fish pose no threat to the environment and will be kept in special disease- and antibiotic-free conditions. The modified fish can grow to the size of wild salmon with 75% less feed, reducing the product\u2019s carbon footprint by up to 25 times, AquaBounty claims.However, environmentalists will head to Canada\u2019s federal court on Tuesday to argue that there is a real risk of mixing between the GM salmon and wild fish and that the Canadian government was wrong to approve the production of the eggs in Prince Edward Island.\u201cThis will potentially be the world\u2019s first genetically modified fish available for human consumption and it\u2019s clear the GM industry wants to get other animal products approved after this,\u201d said Mark Butler, campaigner at the Ecology Action Centre, which is bringing the case alongside the Living Oceans Society.\u201cWe think the measures to avoid mixing with the wild Atlantic salmon are inadequate and once there is genetic contamination the wild salmon is forever changed. It would be a huge live experiment and we wouldn\u2019t know the consequences.\u201dButler said hurricanes, human error or equipment failure could release the GM fish from their land-based hatcheries into the ocean. He added that treatment to ensure the GM salmon cannot reproduce is not always effective.The environmentalists\u2019 court case alleges that the Canadian government breached its own environmental laws by providing AquaBounty with a far wider permit than it was assessed on, potentially opening the way for other companies to produce GM fish eggs in Canada. The lawsuit also states the government did not follow the correct procedures in its approval.AquaBounty has been seeking approval to sell its GM products for consumption in the US since 1995. The company\u2019s chief executive, Ron Stotish, said the court case is \u201ccompletely without merit\u201d.A spokeswoman for Environment Canada, the government\u2019s environmental agency, would not comment on the case. Opposition to genetically modified food endures in many countries, with activists in India this week criticising reported plans to produce GM mustard in the country. ", "tags": ["GM", "Food & drink industry", "Canada", "Business", "US news", "Panama", "World news", "Americas", "Environment"], "title": "Canada sued over approval of genetically modified salmon scheme"},{"date": "2015-11-03T16:00:17Z", "country": "canada", "content": "After almost a decade of deep-right conservatism, Canada\u2019s political landscape experienced a major shift on 19 October with a dramatic come-from-behind national election win by Justin Trudeau\u2019s Liberal party. Trudeau\u2019s Liberals started the 2015 campaign as the third party with only 36 seats and sprinted to a strong majority win with 184 seats \u2013 a novel electoral accomplishment in Canada.Unique, also, was how this was achieved. Trudeau\u2019s commitment to run modest deficits (of $10bn a year for three years) to stimulate the economy through infrastructure spending was a game-changer in the campaign. This was particularly so given aggressive attacks from his political opponents on both the left and right labelling the Liberal leader as fiscally irresponsible.While Canada is hitting the pause button on austerity, the UK chancellor, is on fast-forward. George Osborne\u2019s 2015 spending review will see a further \u00a320bn cut from public spending to achieve balance by 2019, a move which follows a halving of the deficit over the course of the last parliament. Heavyweight economic commentators are coalescing around the view that with interest rates low and unemployment high it\u2019s the right time to invest in public programs and infrastructure. Even the International Monetary Fund says it\u2019s time to open the taps of government spending. Trudeau caught the wave.Canada is no stranger to austerity. The Chretien Liberal government in the 1990s saw finance minister Paul Martin wrestle down massive deficits and the size of the federal public service. The hallmark of Martin\u2019s strategy though was the rejection of across-the-board spending cuts in favour of an evaluation of the relative importance of programmes and services within the fiscal plan. Privatisation and contracting out were in the mix but used sparingly. In 2010, Martin, having retired from politics, was consulted by some European leaders and the then Tory opposition in Britain for advice on some non-inflammatory approaches to deficit cutting, but it is unclear whether his messages had much impact. Austerity under the ousted Conservative government led by Stephen Harper came in the form of a smaller role for the state partly by stepping back from major policy spheres such as public pensions, health, aboriginal policy and climate change. Alongside this, deep tax cuts, including spousal income-splitting and new child benefits all targeted towards wealthy Canadians, in combination with the mantra of balanced budgets, had the desired impact of shrinking available revenues in other programme areas.What can we expect from Trudeau? An increased focus on social policy is expected, with aboriginal issues and income inequality back on the table. There has been an immediate shift from the intensely command-and-control style of the Harper government, starting with much more access for the media and a collaborative approach to working with provincial political leaders. Regional leaders now find themselves invited to join Trudeau in upcoming climate change talks in Paris. This would have been unthinkable under the Harper regime which had directed government tax auditors to target pro-environment charities.There will be some fresh air for a beleaguered public service too, which has seen its diplomatic corps and federal scientists placed under tight gagging orders. In an open letter to the public services, Trudeau said that unlike Harper, who saw public servants as an adversary, \u201cI see a partner. I believe that in order to have a public service that is valued by Canadians, and a source of pride for its members, it must be valued by its government. That begins with \u2013 and necessitates \u2013 respecting the labour rights of public servants, and trusting in their ability to provide effective, independent, and professional services for Canadians.\u201dWe can also expect newly found political support for an ambitious, but nascent, public service reform agenda. Reports indicate the creation of several results teams organised around the PM\u2019s key prioritiesand modelled on delivery teams introduced in Ontario in 2003.These involved a balanced relationship between a central monitoring and challenge function, and line ministries, which maintained the lion\u2019s share of responsibility for delivery. It was highly successful in Ontario and is therefore a helpful incubator for the more challenging effort of driving results through a large and highly dispersed, dispirited, but likely hopeful, public service.", "tags": ["Public services policy", "Society", "Politics", "Canada"], "title": "Canada presses pause on austerity after Justin Trudeau\u2019s election win | Tony Dean"},{"date": "2015-11-01T08:59:01Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Those of us who have opposed George Osborne\u2019s austerity policies throughout can take some comfort from two successive events on either side of the Atlantic. The first was the resounding victory of Trudeau the younger\u2019s Liberal party in Canada on an unashamedly Keynesian, anti-austerity electoral platform. The second has been the way that the chancellor (indeed chancer) of the exchequer received his come-uppance from the House of Lords over his dishonourable programme of drastic reductions in tax credits.First, some background. Hardly anybody can be found these days who will say that they ever thought the Labour party stood a chance of winning under Ed Miliband. Yet David Cameron was sufficiently concerned to call a referendum on our membership of the European Union in order to ward off a threat from Ukip that might well have let Miliband in.It is a direct result of Cameron\u2019s panic about Ukip that he is now wasting everyone\u2019s time preparing for a diversionary British referendum. This is at a time when the European Union is facing an existential crisis over the migration issue and the appalling reaction of extreme rightwing \u2013 indeed neo-fascist \u2013 movements in several European countries: not least, alas, in Germany, whose leaders since the war have worked so hard to avoid any recrudescence of the 1930s.Cameron is asking Angela Merkel for help out of his self-inflicted jam; he ought to be helping her in a migration crisis that threatens dire things \u2013 and not just for her reputation.Warding off Ukip was vital for the Tories, as was the low turnout among the disaffected young. This disaffection was manifested in the election of the anti-austerity Jeremy Corbyn as successor to Miliband. There is, of course, intense speculation about how long Corbyn can stay in place, but his anti-austerity policy has struck a chord, as has shadow chancellor John McDonnell now that he has escaped from the unnecessary bonds of George Osborne\u2019s fiscal charter.Although the government has an unassailable majority in the House of Commons, and the chancellor will no doubt force a heavily revised plan through, it is an interesting moment. Having got away with blue murder with his propaganda that the increase in the budget deficit was caused by the Labour government\u2019s public spending \u2013 of which he had previously approved \u2013 and not by the banking crisis, Osborne has finally discovered that, nauseatingly arrogant though he is, even he cannot walk on water. His reputation for political acumen has been seriously damaged, and it could not have happened to a nicer chancer.The point is that both the austerity policy, and the form it has taken, are the result of political choice. Choosing to impose deflationary measures on an already depressed economy that was just beginning to recover was cavalier, to say the least. And placing some four-fifths of the burden of the austerity programme on public spending cuts was very political indeed.But though this prime minister may talk about \u201cone nation\u201d, and they both go on about helping \u201chard-working families\u201d and the \u201cworking poor\u201d, penalising them is a funny way of doing it. John Le Carr\u00e9 was right, several years ago, to call this \u201cplanned penury\u201d. And Ed Balls was also right to predict, way back in August 2010, that the 2010 budget would have countervailing effects on the recovery Osborne inherited.Before the election Cameron unashamedly promised \u00a38bn of tax cuts while his chancellor was preparing for \u00a312bn of reductions in the welfare budget. Osborne is aiming for a budget surplus not only on day-to-day and year-to-year spending, but also on current and capital (infrastructure!) spending combined. He wants a lower top rate of tax on the backs of people who are struggling.But economists of many persuasions are now pointing out that inequality is having a serious impact on what they call aggregate demand \u2013 ie total spending in the economy \u2013 and, ultimately, economic growth.In his book Capitalism, the Financial Times writer John Plender makes an important point, drawing on an observation by the economist Brian Reading. They note that in the 18th century there was an early version of \u201ctrickle-down\u201d theory, which Ronald Reagan and Mrs Thatcher invoked to justify the redistribution of income in favour of the rich. As Plender writes of the original theory: \u201cIt suffered from the flaw that in a society marked by an uneven distribution of income favouring a numerically small elite, the rich had plenty of spending power to satisfy their desires but not enough buying power to dynamise the economy to its full potential to raise real incomes.\u201dThis is what so may \u201cadvanced\u201d economies are experiencing now. As this year\u2019s United Nations Trade and Development Report points out, the share in total income of the richest households has strongly increased in developed countries, \u201cand these households tend to spend less and save more of their incomes than other households\u201d. The situation calls for a rethinking of economic policy here, in continental Europe, and in the US. Let us hope Justin Trudeau and the Canadian Liberals will show the way. I can hear my old friend the late JK Galbraith \u2013 another enlightened Canadian \u2013 applauding from the grave.", "tags": ["Austerity", "George Osborne", "Justin Trudeau", "Canada", "Economic growth (GDP)", "Economic recovery", "Americas", "World news", "Politics", "Business", "Economics"], "title": "Cameron falters but Canada understands: we need Keynes"},{"date": "2015-10-26T13:24:24Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Five Britons have died after a whale-watching boat carrying 27 people sank off the coast of Vancouver Island in western Canada, the Foreign Office has confirmed.As darkness forced rescue helicopters, planes and boats to suspend their search until daylight, 21 people had been rescued from the seas off the coast of the popular resort town of Tofino where the 65ft-long (20m) Leviathan II went down on Sunday afternoon. One passenger remains missing.Philip Hammond, the British foreign secretary, said: \u201cIt is with deep sadness that I can confirm five British nationals have lost their lives when the whale-watching boat they were on sank off western Canada on Sunday.\u201d\u201cMy thoughts are with the family and friends of all those affected by this terrible accident. Consular staff in British Columbia are supporting the family members of those who have died and we will remain in close contact with Canadian authorities as further information becomes available.\u201dThe mayor of Tofino described the mood in the town as tense but commended local people for their help in the rescue effort.\u201cEverybody\u2019s heart is just breaking for what\u2019s going on here and wanting to be as helpful as possible,\u201d said Josie Osborne in a telephone interview late on Sunday.The weather had been clear and sunny and it was not clear what had caused the Leviathan II to sink.Tofino fishing guide Lance Desilets said at least 12 rescue boats were already out on the water when he arrived on the scene.\u201cI saw a lot of personal belongings, a long diesel slick and the top 10ft of the Leviathan II sticking out of the water,\u201d Desilets said. \u201cIt\u2019s a sad day for our community and the search and rescue people are doing the best that they can.\u201dJenn Hamilton, a spokeswoman for British Columbia emergency health services, said five ambulances were dispatched and many off-duty paramedics went to the dock at Tofino to help.Valerie Wilson, a spokeswoman for the Vancouver Island health authority, said 18 people were taken to Tofino hospital. All were in a stable condition. Three were later transferred to other hospitals while some others had been discharged.Acting sub-lieutenant Melissa Kai, of the Joint Rescue Coordination Centre in British Columbia, said the rescue operation had finished at 11.10pm local time (0810 GMT). She said: \u201cOf the 27 individuals on the vessel when it sank, 21 were rescued. Five were located without vital signs and one remains missing.\u201d A Royal Canadian Air Force Cormorant rescue helicopter had been at the accident site within 30 minutes of the emergency call, she added, and three coastguard ships had joined other local boats in a rescue attempt. The Leviathan II, which was operated by Jamie\u2019s Whaling Station, had sent out a mayday signal at around 5pm local time, the JRCC said.Boats from the nearby Ahoushat First Nation joined the rescue effort, said aboriginal councillor Tom Campbell. He was on the waterfront and watched as rescue personnel brought several survivors ashore.\u201cTheir looks tell the whole story,\u201d he said by phone from Tofino. \u201cYou can\u2019t describe looks on people that are lost. They look totally lost, shocked and lost.\u201dCampbell said his cousin pulled at least eight people from the water into a rescue boat.Tofino is a fishing village and popular holiday destination famous for its whale watching, surfing and fishing as well as its proximity to natural hot springs and old-growth rainforest.Jamie Bray, the owner of Jamie\u2019s Whaling Station, which operated the sunken vessel, said in a statement posted on its website: \u201cIt has been a tragic day. Our entire team is heartbroken over this incident and our hearts go out to the families, friends and loved ones of everyone involved.\u201cWe are doing everything we can to assist our passengers and staff through this difficult time. We are cooperating with investigators to determine exactly what happened.\u201cIn the meantime, we want to extend our most sincere thank you to the first responders, rescue personnel, and everyone from Tofino and the local First Nations communities who assisted with the response efforts. We will provide further updates when information becomes available.\u201dThese are not the first deaths connected to Jamie\u2019s Whaling Station tours. Two people died in March 1998 when the company\u2019s boat Ocean Thunder was swamped by an unexpected wave in the same waters, Plover Reefs. The swell rolled the boat, throwing all the passengers into the water. One passenger and the operator of the boat drowned.A Transportation Safety Board (TSB) investigation found that the operator \u201cdid not fully appreciate the conditions the boat would meet at the time of the accident in the turbulent waters in the vicinity of reefs\u201d, and also criticised the lack of effective communication equipment, which resulted in a delay in initiating a rescue attempt.An investigation was also launched in 1996, after the Jamie\u2019s Whaling Station craft Sharp Point ran aground while running at full speed after the operator fell asleep at the controls. No one died in the incident, but the operator was treated for head injuries.Justin Trudeau, Canada\u2019s prime minister-designate, said in a statement: \u201cI was shocked and saddened to hear of the sinking of a whale-watching boat near the [British Columbia] coast and the passengers aboard who have lost their lives in the incident. We thank all those, including our search and rescue officials, who responded swiftly with courage and professionalism.\u201cI know firsthand of this coastal area\u2019s natural beauty and the many people who visit here from all around the world. My thoughts and prayers are with the passengers, the crew, and their families at this most difficult time. We will continue to offer them support in the days ahead.\u201d", "tags": ["UK news", "Canada", "Americas", "World news"], "title": "Five Britons killed as Canada whale-watching boat sinks"},{"date": "2015-10-25T15:43:08Z", "country": "canada", "content": "Three days before the Liberal leader Justin Trudeau, bright-eyed son of the former Canadian prime minister, catapulted to power with a decisive majority, a video went viral that tells you more about the Canadian people than an election result ever could.Celebrating their win over the Kansas City Rangers, fans of the Toronto Blue Jays took over the intersection at Yonge-Dundas square, dancing and cheering as rows of cops in high-visibility jackets looked on. But then an odd thing happened. When the traffic light changes the entire crowd stops partying and obediently clears the street. The cops don\u2019t need to raise a finger. \u201cWhat a well-behaved crowd!\u201d laughs the guy taking the video. And he\u2019s right. We are a well-behaved crowd, even in our most joyous highs and miserable lows, Canadians define ourselves by our sober restraint and reluctance to challenge authority.It was for this reason that casting Stephen Harper out of 24 Sussex Drive felt like such a monumental release. For years, Harper ran his government, and in many ways the entire country, like his private fiefdom. He shut out the press, refused to engage his critics, muzzled his cabinet and showed unvarnished disdain for so many of the values that Canadians hold dear. And yet despite this, the unwavering Conservative with the husky-dog stare quietly held on to power for nearly a decade and was elected three times, twice with a clear majority.Trudeau campaigned on a platform of inspiration and change. And of course, after nine and a half years of Harper, this was something the country desperately needed. And change we got, in the form of a beautiful, idealistic young man and his glowing French-Canadian wife, their three young children wielding light sabres as the crowd roared in jubilation at the sight of our handsome, shiny new first family \u2013 such beacons of optimism and the \u201csunny ways\u201d of Canadian politics of the past.The mood, I couldn\u2019t help but feel, was not dissimilar to the glow surrounding the last big royal wedding \u2013 the effective coronation of William and Kate in the hearts and minds of the Canadian public, a public whose earnest, unquestioning adoration for \u201cour royal family\u201d is unchallenged among Commonwealth nations.Despite the dynastic overtones, the spectre of a second Prime Minister Trudeau in our lifetime was not a cause for concern among the Canadian electorate. On the contrary, we are revelling in it. You might think Canadians elected Trudeau (or \u201cJustin\u201d as he encourages everyone to call him) in spite the fact that he is his father\u2019s son but in fact the opposite is true. While Justin has undeniably proved himself as an MP, slogging it out for seven years in opposition, his pedigree \u2013 along with his poufy hair \u2013 was not the political Achilles heel the Conservatives had hoped it would be.Within hours of his election, the national Trudeau nostalgia bath began. On social media, old black and white photographs were passed around: there was the one of Pierre Elliott Trudeau carrying his one-year-old son on his hip like a harried playground dad as a Royal Canadian Mounted Police officer stands in rigid salute, and another one of Margaret Trudeau beaming as Fidel Castro dandles her infant on the asphalt outside a private jet.There were the affectionate jokes on Twitter about how Trudeau would be the first leader to \u201creally understand the younger generation\u201d since he was, after all, moving back into his parents\u2019 house. How it was the US president Richard Nixon who first prophesised Justin\u2019s fate while giving a toast during a 1972 state visit to Ottawa. \u201cTonight we\u2019ll dispense with formalities,\u201d said Nixon at a gala buffet, gesturing to Pierre and Margaret Trudeau who had brought their newborn son. \u201cI\u2019d like to toast the future prime minister of Canada: to Justin Pierre Trudeau.\u201dEven the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation got in on the act. In a video released this week, Peter Mansbridge, Canada\u2019s most trusted news anchor, does an interview in which he showed the newly victorious Trudeau a video of his father commenting on his own landslide victory \u201cTrudeaumania\u201d back in 1968. \u201cYou know this kind of popularity is easily lost,\u201d Pierre Elliott Trudeau says with a blas\u00e9 coolness his son conspicuously lacks. \u201cPerhaps easily won. Easy come, easy go.\u201d Watching the clip Justin is clearly moved. \u201cIt\u2019s touching,\u201d he told Mansbridge. \u201cIt\u2019s the values he raised me with and it\u2019s the values we live with and that I\u2019m trying to pass on to my kids.\u201dBut while Justin\u2019s values might reflect that of regular Canadians his experience has been anything but. He himself has spoken of how he had a pretty normal childhood apart from \u201cthe days when we had to rush home from school to have lunch with the Queen\u201d.While our American neighbours favour political dynasties for obvious practical and economic reasons (who else but Clinton and Bush actually have political apparatus and money required to launch a realistic presidential bid?), Canadians dream of our very own Camelot because, in truth, we are enchanted by the idea of a ruling class.In 1977, Justin Trudeau\u2019s father was famously photographed doing a cheeky pirouette behind Queen Elizabeth II, and we have carried his spirit forward by electing his eldest son. We might poke fun at the Queen occasionally but the truth is, Canadians wouldn\u2019t have anyone else on the back of our quarters. In Justin Trudeau, we see both change and familiarity, inspiration and conservatism \u2013 and this is perhaps the most Canadian impulse of all.But we mustn\u2019t forget that it was this same sober restraint \u2013 and general unwillingness to challenge authority \u2013 that allowed a leader such as Harper to bend the country to his will for so long and with such regrettable consequences. We are, after all, a very well-behaved crowd.", "tags": ["Canada", "Justin Trudeau", "World news", "Politics"], "title": "Justin Trudeau is shiny yet familiar \u2013 perfect for conservative Canada | Leah McLaren"},